Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the "Forward Looking Statements," our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes that follow and the "Consolidated Five Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" and the "Risk Factors" included in our Annual Report on Form 10 K. Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to conform to the current presentation. Overview We provide financial planning, products and services that are designed to be utilized as solutions for our clients cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, protection and estate and wealth transfer needs. Our model for delivering these solutions is centered on building long term personal relationships between our affiliated advisors and clients, and in the case of our products distributed through unaffiliated advisors, by supporting those advisors in building strong client relationships. We believe that our focus on personal relationships, together with our strengths in financial planning and product development, allow us to better address the evolving financial needs of our clients and our primary target market segment, the mass affluent and affluent, which we define as households with investable assets of more than $100,000. Our branded affiliated advisors financial planning and advisory process is designed to provide comprehensive advice, when appropriate, to address our clients cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth transfer needs. This approach allows us to recommend actions and a range of product solutions consisting of investment, annuity, insurance, banking and other financial products that help clients attain over time a return or form of protection while accepting what they determine to be an appropriate range and level of risk. Our focus puts us in a strong position to capitalize on significant demographic and market trends, which we believe will continue to drive increased demand for our financial planning and other financial services. Our focus on deep client advisor relationships has been central to the ability of our business model to succeed through the extreme market conditions of 2008 and 2009, and we believe it will help us to respond to future market cycles. Our multi platform network of affiliated financial advisors is the primary means by which we develop personal relationships with retail clients. As of December 31, 2009, we had a network of more than 12,000 financial advisors and registered representatives ("affiliated financial advisors"). We refer to the affiliated financial advisors who use our brand name as our branded advisors, and those who do not use our brand name but who are affiliated as registered representatives of ours, as our unbranded advisors. The financial product solutions we offer through our affiliated advisors include both our own products and services and the products of other companies. Our branded advisor network is the primary distribution channel through which we offer our investment and annuity products and services, as well as a range of banking and protection products. Our asset management, annuity and auto and home protection products are also distributed through unaffiliated advisors and affinity relationships. We offer our branded advisors training, tools, leadership, marketing programs and other field and centralized support to assist them in delivering advice and product solutions to clients. We support unaffiliated advisors with strong sales and service support and our solutions which they provide to clients. We believe our approach not only improves the products and services we provide to their clients, but allows us to reinvest in enhanced services for clients and increase support for financial advisors. Our integrated model of financial planning, diversified product manufacturing and affiliated and non affiliated product distribution affords us a better understanding of our clients, which allows us to better manage the risk profile of our businesses. We believe our focus on meeting clients needs through personal financial planning results in more satisfied clients with deeper, longer lasting relationships with our company and a higher retention of experienced financial advisors. We have four main operating segments: Advice & Wealth Management, Asset Management, Annuities and Protection, as well as our Corporate & Other segment. Our four main operating segments are aligned with the financial solutions we offer to address our clients needs. The products and services we provide retail clients and, to a lesser extent, institutional clients, are the primary source of our revenues and net income. Revenues and net income are significantly affected by investment performance and the total value and composition of assets we manage and administer for our retail and institutional clients as well as the distribution fees we receive from other companies. These factors, in turn, are largely determined by overall investment market performance and the depth and breadth of our individual client relationships. Equity price, credit market and interest rate fluctuations can have a significant impact on our results of operations, primarily due to the effects they have on the asset management and other asset based fees we earn, the "spread" income generated on our annuities, banking and deposit products and universal life ("UL") insurance products, the value of deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") and deferred sales 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents inducement costs ("DSIC") assets associated with variable annuity and variable UL products, the values of liabilities for guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuities and the values of derivatives held to hedge these benefits. For additional information regarding our sensitivity to equity price and interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." It is managements priority to increase shareholder value over a multi year horizon by achieving our on average, over time financial targets. Our financial targets are: Net revenue growth of 6% to 8%, Earnings per diluted share growth of 12% to 15%, and Return on equity of 12% to 15%. Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $7.8 billion, an increase of $889 million, or 13%, from the prior year. Net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $722 million compared to a net loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial of $38 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Earnings per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $2.95, compared to a loss per share of $0.17 for the year ended December 31, 2008. On September 30, 2009, we announced a definitive agreement to acquire the long term asset management business of Columbia Management Group ("Columbia") from Bank of America, N.A. The total consideration to be paid will be between $900 million and $1.2 billion based on net asset flows at Columbia before closing and is expected to be funded through the use of cash on hand. The transaction is expected to close in the spring of 2010, subject to satisfaction of closing conditions that are generally present in similar acquisitions. Related to the transaction, we incurred $7 million of pretax non recurring acquisition and integration costs during the year ended December 31, 2009, and expect to incur between $130 million and $160 million of such costs through 2011. These costs include system integration costs, proxy and other regulatory filing costs, employee reduction and retention costs, and investment banking, legal and other acquisition costs. We continue to establish Ameriprise Financial as a financial services leader as we focus on meeting the financial needs of the mass affluent and affluent, as evidenced by our continued leadership in financial planning, a client retention percentage rate of 93%, and, upon the anticipated closing of our acquisition of Columbias long term asset management business, our status as a top ten ranked firm within core portions of each of our four main operating segments, including our U.S. advisor force, long term U.S. mutual funds, variable annuities and variable universal life insurance. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we completed the all cash acquisitions of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc., subsequently renamed Ameriprise Advisor Services, Inc. ("AASI"), J.&W. Seligman & Co., Incorporated ("Seligman") and Brecek & Young Advisors, Inc. to expand our retail distribution and asset management businesses. The cost of the acquisitions was $787 million, which included the purchase price and transaction costs. We recorded the assets and liabilities acquired at fair value and allocated the remaining costs to goodwill and intangible assets. Integration charges of $91 million and $19 million were included in general and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Separation from American Express On February 1, 2005, the American Express Board of Directors announced its intention to pursue the disposition of 100% of its shareholdings in our company (the "Separation") through a tax free distribution to American Express shareholders. Effective as of the close of business on September 30, 2005, American Express completed the Separation of our company and the distribution of our common shares to American Express shareholders (the "Distribution"). Prior to the Distribution, we had been a wholly owned subsidiary of American Express. Our separation from American Express resulted in specifically identifiable impacts to our 2007 consolidated results of operations and financial condition. We incurred a total of $890 million of non recurring separation costs as part of our separation from American Express. These costs were primarily associated with establishing the Ameriprise Financial brand, separating and reestablishing our technology platforms and advisor and employee retention programs. Our separation from American Express was completed in 2007. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 39 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies The accounting and reporting policies that we use affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting and reporting policies are critical to an understanding of our results of operations and financial condition and, in some cases, the application of these policies can be significantly affected by the estimates, judgments and assumptions made by management during the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting and reporting policies we have identified as fundamental to a full understanding of our results of operations and financial condition are described below. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about our accounting policies. Valuation of Investments The most significant component of our investments is our Available for Sale securities, which we carry at fair value within our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair value of our Available for Sale securities at December 31, 2009 was primarily obtained from third party pricing sources. We record unrealized securities gains (losses) in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of income tax provision (benefit) and net of adjustments in other asset and liability balances, such as DAC, to reflect the expected impact on their carrying values had the unrealized securities gains (losses) been realized as of the respective balance sheet dates. We recognize gains and losses in results of operations upon disposition of the securities. Effective January 1, 2009, we early adopted an accounting standard that significantly changed our accounting policy regarding the timing and amount of other than temporary impairments for Available for Sale securities. When the fair value of an investment is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether or not: (i) we have the intent to sell the security (made a decision to sell) or (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before its anticipated recovery. If either of these conditions is met, an other than temporary impairment is considered to have occurred and we must recognize an other than temporary impairment for the difference between the investments amortized cost basis and its fair value through earnings. For securities that do not meet the above criteria, and we do not expect to recover a securitys amortized cost basis, the security is also considered other than temporarily impaired. For these securities, we separate the total impairment into the credit loss component and the amount of the loss related to other factors. The amount of the total other than temporary impairment related to credit loss is recognized in earnings. The amount of the total other than temporary impairment related to other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income, net of impacts to DAC, DSIC, certain benefit reserves and income taxes. For Available for Sale securities that have recognized an other than temporary impairment through earnings, if through subsequent evaluation there is a significant increase in the cash flow expected, the difference between the amortized cost basis and the cash flows expected to be collected is accreted as interest income. Subsequent increases and decreases in the fair value of Available for Sale securities are included in other comprehensive income. For all securities that are considered temporarily impaired, we do not intend to sell these securities (have not made a decision to sell) and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. We believe that we will collect all principal and interest due on all investments that have amortized cost in excess of fair value that are considered only temporarily impaired. Factors we consider in determining whether declines in the fair value of fixed maturity securities are other than temporary include: (i) the extent to which the market value is below amortized cost; (ii) the duration of time in which there has been a significant decline in value; (iii) fundamental analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and overall financial condition of the issuer; and (iv) market events that could impact credit ratings, economic and business climate, litigation and government actions, and similar external business factors. In order to determine the amount of the credit loss component for corporate debt securities considered other than temporarily impaired, a best estimate of the present value of cash flows expected to be collected discounted at the securitys effective interest rate is compared to the amortized cost basis of the security. The significant inputs to cash flow projections consider potential debt restructuring terms, projected cash flows available to pay creditors and our position in the debtors overall capital structure. For structured investments (e.g., residential mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities and other structured investments), we also consider factors such as overall deal structure and our position within the structure, quality of underlying collateral, delinquencies and defaults, loss severities, recoveries, prepayments and cumulative loss projections in assessing potential other than temporary impairments of these investments. Based upon these factors, securities that have indicators of potential other than temporary impairment are subject to detailed review by management. Securities for which declines are considered temporary continue to be carefully monitored by management. Generally, the credit loss component for the non agency mortgage backed securities is determined as the amount the amortized cost basis exceeds the present value of the projected cash flows expected to be collected. 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents Significant inputs considered in these projections are consistent with the factors considered in assessing potential other than temporary impairment for these investments. Current contractual interest rates considered in these cash flow projections are used to calculate the discount rate used to determine the present value of the expected cash flows. Deferred Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducement Costs For our annuity and life, disability income and long term care insurance products, our DAC and DSIC balances at any reporting date are supported by projections that show management expects there to be adequate premiums or estimated gross profits after that date to amortize the remaining DAC and DSIC balances. These projections are inherently uncertain because they require management to make assumptions about financial markets, anticipated mortality and morbidity levels and policyholder behavior over periods extending well into the future. Projection periods used for our annuity products are typically 10 to 25 years, while projection periods for our life, disability income and long term care insurance products are often 50 years or longer. Management regularly monitors financial market conditions and actual policyholder behavior experience and compares them to its assumptions. For annuity and universal life insurance products, the assumptions made in projecting future results and calculating the DAC balance and DAC amortization expense are managements best estimates. Management is required to update these assumptions whenever it appears that, based on actual experience or other evidence, earlier estimates should be revised. When assumptions are changed, the percentage of estimated gross profits used to amortize DAC might also change. A change in the required amortization percentage is applied retrospectively; an increase in amortization percentage will result in a decrease in the DAC balance and an increase in DAC amortization expense, while a decrease in amortization percentage will result in an increase in the DAC balance and a decrease in DAC amortization expense. The impact on results of operations of changing assumptions can be either positive or negative in any particular period and is reflected in the period in which such changes are made. For products with associated DSIC, the same policy applies in calculating the DSIC balance and periodic DSIC amortization. For other life, disability income and long term care insurance products, the assumptions made in calculating our DAC balance and DAC amortization expense are consistent with those used in determining the liabilities and, therefore, are intended to provide for adverse deviations in experience and are revised only if management concludes experience will be so adverse that DAC are not recoverable. If management concludes that DAC are not recoverable, DAC are reduced to the amount that is recoverable based on best estimate assumptions and there is a corresponding expense recorded in our consolidated results of operations. For annuity and life, disability income and long term care insurance products, key assumptions underlying these long term projections include interest rates (both earning rates on invested assets and rates credited to contractholder and policyholder accounts), equity market performance, mortality and morbidity rates and the rates at which policyholders are expected to surrender their contracts, make withdrawals from their contracts and make additional deposits to their contracts. Assumptions about earned and credited interest rates are the primary factors used to project interest margins, while assumptions about equity and bond market performance are the primary factors used to project client asset value growth rates, and assumptions about surrenders, withdrawals and deposits comprise projected persistency rates. Management must also make assumptions to project maintenance expenses associated with servicing our annuity and insurance businesses during the DAC amortization period. The client asset value growth rates are the rates at which variable annuity and variable universal life insurance contract values invested in separate accounts are assumed to appreciate in the future. The rates used vary by equity and fixed income investments. Management reviews and, where appropriate, adjusts its assumptions with respect to client asset value growth rates on a regular basis. We typically use a five year mean reversion process as a guideline in setting near term equity asset growth rates based on a long term view of financial market performance as well as recent actual performance. The suggested near term growth rate is reviewed to ensure consistency with managements assessment of anticipated equity market performance. In 2009, management continued to follow the mean reversion process, decreasing near term equity asset growth rates to reflect the positive market. The long term client asset value growth rates are based on assumed gross annual total returns of 9% for equities and 6.5% for fixed income securities. A decrease of 100 basis points in various rate assumptions is likely to result in an increase in DAC and DSIC amortization and an increase in benefits and claims expense from variable annuity guarantees. The following table presents the estimated impact to pretax income: Estimated Impact to Pretax Income(1) (in millions) Decrease in future near and long term equity returns by 100 basis points $ (44 ) Decrease in future near and long term fixed income returns by 100 basis points (18 ) Decrease in near term equity asset growth returns by 100 basis points (28 ) (1)An increase in the above assumptions by 100 basis points would result in an increase to pretax income for approximately the same amount. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 41 Table of Contents We monitor other principal DAC and DSIC amortization assumptions, such as persistency, mortality, morbidity, interest margin and maintenance expense levels each quarter and, when assessed independently, each could impact our DAC and DSIC balances. The analysis of DAC and DSIC balances and the corresponding amortization is a dynamic process that considers all relevant factors and assumptions described previously. Unless management identifies a significant deviation over the course of the quarterly monitoring, management reviews and updates these DAC and DSIC amortization assumptions annually in the third quarter of each year. An assessment of sensitivity associated with changes in any single assumption would not necessarily be an indicator of future results. Liabilities for Future Policy Benefits and Policy Claims and Other Policyholders Funds Fixed Annuities and Variable Annuity Guarantees Future policy benefits and policy claims and other policyholders funds related to fixed annuities and variable annuity guarantees include liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable deferred annuities, guaranteed benefits associated with variable annuities, equity indexed annuities and fixed annuities in a payout status. Liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable deferred annuities are equal to accumulation values, which are the cumulative gross deposits and credited interest less withdrawals and various charges. The majority of the variable annuity contracts offered by us contain guaranteed minimum death benefit ("GMDB") provisions. When market values of the customers accounts decline, the death benefit payable on a contract with a GMDB may exceed the contract accumulation value. We also offer variable annuities with death benefit provisions that gross up the amount payable by a certain percentage of contract earnings which are referred to as gain gross up benefits. In addition, we offer contracts with guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit ("GMWB") and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit ("GMAB") provisions and, until May 2007, the Company offered contracts containing guaranteed minimum income benefit ("GMIB") provisions. In determining the liabilities for GMDB, GMIB and the life contingent benefits associated with GMWB, we project these benefits and contract assessments using actuarial models to simulate various equity market scenarios. Significant assumptions made in projecting future benefits and assessments relate to customer asset value growth rates, mortality, persistency and investment margins and are consistent with those used for DAC asset valuation for the same contracts. As with DAC, management reviews, and where appropriate, adjusts its assumptions each quarter. Unless management identifies a material deviation over the course of quarterly monitoring, management reviews and updates these assumptions annually in the third quarter of each year. The amounts in the table above in "Deferred Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducement Costs" include the estimated impact to benefits and claims expense related to variable annuity guarantees resulting from a decrease of 100 basis points in various rate assumptions. The GMDB liability is determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected contract accumulation value and recognizing the excess over the estimated meaningful life based on expected assessments (e.g., mortality and expense fees, contractual administrative charges and similar fees). If elected by the contract owner and after a stipulated waiting period from contract issuance, a GMIB guarantees a minimum lifetime annuity based on a specified rate of contract accumulation value growth and predetermined annuity purchase rates. The GMIB liability is determined each period by estimating the expected value of annuitization benefits in excess of the projected contract accumulation value at the date of annuitization and recognizing the excess over the estimated meaningful life based on expected assessments. The embedded derivatives related to GMAB and the non life contingent benefits associated with GMWB provisions are recorded at fair value. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the fair value measurement of embedded derivatives. The liability for the life contingent benefits associated with GMWB provisions is determined in the same way as the GMDB liability. The changes in both the fair values of the GMWB and GMAB embedded derivatives and the liability for life contingent benefits are reflected in benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses. Liabilities for equity indexed annuities are equal to the accumulation of host contract values covering guaranteed benefits and the fair value of embedded equity options. Liabilities for fixed annuities in a benefit or payout status are based on future estimated payments using established industry mortality tables and interest rates, ranging from 4.6% to 9.5% at December 31, 2009, depending on year of issue, with an average rate of approximately 5.7%. 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents Life, Disability Income and Long Term Care Insurance Future policy benefits and policy claims and other policyholders funds related to life, disability income and long term care insurance include liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable universal life policies, liabilities for unpaid amounts on reported claims, estimates of benefits payable on claims incurred but not yet reported and estimates of benefits that will become payable on term life, whole life, disability income and long term care policies as claims are incurred in the future. Liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable universal life insurance are equal to accumulation values. Accumulation values are the cumulative gross deposits and credited interest less various contractual expense and mortality charges and less amounts withdrawn by policyholders. Liabilities for unpaid amounts on reported life insurance claims are equal to the death benefits payable under the policies. Liabilities for unpaid amounts on reported disability income and long term care claims include any periodic or other benefit amounts due and accrued, along with estimates of the present value of obligations for continuing benefit payments. These amounts are calculated based on claim continuance tables which estimate the likelihood an individual will continue to be eligible for benefits. Present values are calculated at interest rates established when claims are incurred. Anticipated claim continuance rates are based on established industry tables, adjusted as appropriate for our experience. Interest rates used with disability income claims ranged from 3.0% to 8.0% at December 31, 2009, with an average rate of 4.7%. Interest rates used with long term care claims ranged from 4.0% to 7.0% at December 31, 2009, with an average rate of 4.1%. Liabilities for estimated benefits payable on claims that have been incurred but not yet reported are based on periodic analysis of the actual time lag between when a claim occurs and when it is reported. Liabilities for estimates of benefits that will become payable on future claims on term life, whole life, disability income and long term care policies are based on the net level premium method, using anticipated premium payments, mortality and morbidity rates, policy persistency and interest rates earned on assets supporting the liability. Anticipated mortality and morbidity rates are based on established industry mortality and morbidity tables, with modifications based on our experience. Anticipated premium payments and persistency rates vary by policy form, issue age, policy duration and certain other pricing factors. Anticipated interest rates for term and whole life ranged from 4.0% to 10.0% at December 31, 2009, depending on policy form, issue year and policy duration. Anticipated interest rates for disability income vary by plan and were 7.5% and 6.0% at policy issue grading to 5.0% over five years and 4.5% over 20 years, respectively. Anticipated interest rates for long term care policy reserves can vary by plan and year and ranged from 5.8% to 9.4% at December 31, 2009. Where applicable, benefit amounts expected to be recoverable from reinsurance companies who share in the risk are separately recorded as reinsurance recoverable within receivables. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to various market risks. All derivatives are recorded at fair value. The fair value of our derivative instruments is determined using either market quotes or valuation models that are based upon the net present value of estimated future cash flows and incorporate current market observable inputs to the extent available. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on its intended use and the resulting hedge designation, if any. We primarily use derivatives as economic hedges that are not designated as accounting hedges or do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. We occasionally designate derivatives as i) hedges of changes in the fair value of assets, liabilities or firm commitments ("fair value hedges"), ii) hedges of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability ("cash flow hedges") or iii) hedges of foreign currency exposures of net investments in foreign operations ("net investment hedges in foreign operations"). Our policy is to not offset fair value amounts recognized for derivatives and collateral arrangements executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangement. For derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in current period earnings. The changes in fair value of derivatives hedging variable annuity living benefits and certain variable annuity death benefits are included within benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses. The changes in fair value of derivatives hedging equity indexed annuities and stock market certificates are included within interest credited to fixed accounts and banking and deposit interest expense, respectively. The changes in fair value of all other derivatives are a component of ANNUAL REPORT 2009 43 Table of Contents net investment income. Our derivatives primarily provide economic hedges to equity market and interest rate exposures. Examples include structured derivatives, options, futures, equity and interest rate swaps and swaptions that economically hedge the equity and interest rate exposure of derivatives embedded in certain annuity and certificate liabilities, as well as exposure to price risk arising from affiliated mutual fund seed money investments. For derivative instruments that qualify as fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivatives, as well as of the hedged risk within the corresponding hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments are recognized in current earnings. If a fair value hedge designation is removed or the hedge is terminated prior to maturity, previous adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged item are recognized into earnings over the remaining life of the hedged item. For derivative instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gain or loss on the derivative instruments are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified into earnings when the hedged item or transaction impacts earnings. Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss is reported currently in earnings. If a hedge designation is removed or a hedge is terminated prior to maturity, the amount previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is recognized into earnings over the period that the hedged item impacts earnings. For any hedge relationships that are discontinued because the forecasted transaction is not expected to occur according to the original strategy, any related amounts previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are recognized in earnings immediately. For derivative instruments that qualify as net investment hedges in foreign operations, the effective portions of the change in fair value of the derivatives are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as part of the foreign currency translation adjustment. Any ineffective portions of net investment hedges in foreign operations are recognized in earnings during the period of change. For further details on the types of derivatives we use and how we account for them, see Note 2 and Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Tax Accounting Income taxes, as reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements, represent the net amount of income taxes that we expect to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions in connection with our operations. We provide for income taxes based on amounts that we believe we will ultimately owe taking into account the recognition and measurement for uncertain tax positions. Inherent in the provision for income taxes are estimates and judgments regarding the tax treatment of certain items. In the event that the ultimate tax treatment of items differs from our estimates, we may be required to significantly change the provision for income taxes recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with the provision for income taxes, our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect certain amounts related to deferred tax assets and liabilities, which result from temporary differences between the assets and liabilities measured for financial statement purposes versus the assets and liabilities measured for tax return purposes. Among our deferred tax assets is a significant deferred tax asset relating to capital losses that have been recognized for financial statement purposes but not yet for tax return purposes. Under current U.S. federal income tax law, capital losses generally must be used against capital gain income within five years of the year in which the capital losses are recognized for tax purposes. Our life insurance subsidiaries will not be able to file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return with the other members of our affiliated group until 2010, which will result in net operating and capital losses, credits and other tax attributes generated by one group not being available to offset income earned or taxes owed by the other group during the period of non consolidation. This lack of consolidation could affect our ability to fully realize certain of our deferred tax assets, including the capital losses. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for any portion of our deferred tax assets that management believes will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in determining if a valuation allowance should be established, and the amount of such allowance if required. Factors used in making this determination include estimates relating to the performance of the business including the ability to generate capital gains. Consideration is given to, among other things in making this determination, i) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards, ii) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, iii) taxable income in prior carryback years, and iv) tax planning strategies. It is likely that management will need to identify and implement appropriate planning strategies to ensure our ability to realize our deferred tax assets and avoid the establishment of a valuation 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents allowance with respect to such assets. In the opinion of management, it is currently more likely than not that we will realize the benefit of our deferred tax assets, including our capital loss deferred tax asset; therefore, no such valuation allowance has been established. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information regarding recent accounting pronouncements and their expected impact on our future consolidated results of operations or financial condition, see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Sources of Revenues and Expenses Management and Financial Advice Fees Management and financial advice fees relate primarily to fees earned from managing mutual funds, separate account and wrap account assets, institutional investments, including structured investments, as well as fees earned from providing financial advice and administrative services (including transfer agent, administration and custodial fees earned from providing services to retail mutual funds). Management and financial advice fees also include mortality and expense risk fees earned on separate account assets. Our management fees are generally accrued daily and collected monthly. A significant portion of our management fees are calculated as a percentage of the fair value of our managed assets. The substantial majority of our managed assets are valued by independent pricing services vendors based upon observable market data. The selection of our pricing services vendors and the reliability of their prices are subject to certain governance procedures, such as periodic comparison across pricing vendors, due diligence reviews, daily price variance analysis, subsequent sales testing, stale price review, pricing vendor challenge process, and valuation committee oversight. Many of our mutual funds have a performance incentive adjustment ("PIA"). The PIA increases or decreases the level of management fees received based on the specific funds relative performance as measured against a designated external index. We may also receive performance based incentive fees from hedge funds or other structured investments that we manage. We recognize PIA revenue monthly on a 12 month rolling performance basis. The monthly PIA and annual performance fees for structured investments are recognized as revenue at the time the performance fee is finalized or no longer subject to adjustment. The PIA is finalized on a monthly basis. All other performance fees are based on a full contract year and are final at the end of the contract year. Any performance fees received are not subject to repayment or any other clawback provisions and approximately 1% of managed assets as of December 31, 2009 are subject to "high water marks" whereby we will not earn incentive fees even if the fund has positive returns until it surpasses the previous high water mark. Employee benefit plan and institutional investment management and administration services fees are negotiated and are also generally based on underlying asset values. Fees from financial planning and advice services are recognized when the financial plan is delivered. Distribution Fees Distribution fees primarily include point of sale fees (such as mutual fund front end sales loads) and asset based fees (such as 12b 1 distribution and shareholder service fees) that are generally based on a contractual percentage of assets and recognized when earned. Distribution fees also include amounts received under marketing support arrangements for sales of mutual funds and other companies products, such as through our wrap accounts, as well as surrender charges on fixed and variable universal life insurance and annuities. Net Investment Income Net investment income primarily includes interest income on fixed maturity securities classified as Available for Sale, commercial mortgage loans, policy loans, consumer loans, other investments and cash and cash equivalents; the changes in fair value of trading securities, including seed money, and certain derivatives; the pro rata share of net income or loss on equity method investments; and realized gains and losses on the sale of securities and charges for other than temporary impairments of investments related to credit loss. Interest income is accrued as earned using the effective interest method, which makes an adjustment of the yield for security premiums and discounts on all performing fixed maturity securities classified as Available for Sale, excluding structured securities, and commercial mortgage loans so that the related security or loan recognizes a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance throughout its term. For beneficial interests in structured securities, the excess cash flows attributable to a beneficial interest over the initial investment are recognized as interest income over the life of the beneficial interest using the effective yield method. Realized gains and losses on securities, other than trading securities and equity method investments, are recognized using the specific identification method on a trade date basis. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 45 Table of Contents Premiums Premiums include premiums on property casualty insurance, traditional life and health (disability income and long term care) insurance and immediate annuities with a life contingent feature. Premiums on auto and home insurance are net of reinsurance premiums and are recognized ratably over the coverage period. Premiums on traditional life and health insurance are net of reinsurance ceded and are recognized as revenue when due. Other Revenues Other revenues include certain charges assessed on fixed and variable universal life insurance and annuities, which consist of cost of insurance charges, net of reinsurance premiums for universal life insurance products, variable annuity guaranteed benefit rider charges and administration charges against contractholder accounts or balances. Premiums paid by fixed and variable universal life policyholders and annuity contractholders are considered deposits and are not included in revenue. Other revenues also include revenues related to certain consolidated limited partnerships. Banking and Deposit Interest Expense Banking and deposit interest expense primarily includes interest expense related to banking deposits and investment certificates. Additionally, banking and deposit interest expense includes interest related to non recourse debt of certain consolidated limited partnerships. The changes in fair value of stock market certificate embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging stock market certificates are included within banking and deposit interest expense. Distribution Expenses Distribution expenses primarily include compensation paid to our financial advisors, registered representatives, third party distributors and wholesalers, net of amounts capitalized and amortized as part of DAC. The amounts capitalized and amortized are based on actual distribution costs. The majority of these costs, such as advisor and wholesaler compensation, vary directly with the level of sales. Distribution expenses also include marketing support and other distribution and administration related payments made to affiliated and unaffiliated distributors of products provided by our affiliates. The majority of these expenses vary with the level of sales, or assets held, by these distributors, and the remainder is fixed. Distribution expenses also include wholesaling costs. Interest Credited to Fixed Accounts Interest credited to fixed accounts represents amounts earned by contractholders and policyholders on fixed account values associated with fixed and variable universal life and annuity contracts. The changes in fair value of equity indexed annuity embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging equity indexed annuities are included within interest credited to fixed accounts. Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses consist of amounts paid and changes in liabilities held for anticipated future benefit payments under insurance policies and annuity contracts, along with costs to process and pay such amounts. Amounts are net of benefit payments recovered or expected to be recovered under reinsurance contracts. Benefits under variable annuity guarantees include the changes in fair value of GMWB and GMAB embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging these benefits, as well as the changes in fair value of derivatives hedging GMDB provisions. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses also include amortization of DSIC. Amortization of DAC Direct sales commissions and other costs capitalized as DAC are amortized over time. For annuity and universal life contracts, DAC are amortized based on projections of estimated gross profits over amortization periods equal to the approximate life of the business. For other insurance products, DAC are generally amortized as a percentage of premiums over amortization periods equal to the premium paying period. For certain mutual fund products, DAC are generally amortized over fixed periods on a straight line basis adjusted for redemptions. See "Deferred Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducement Costs" under "Critical Accounting Policies" for further information on DAC. Interest and Debt Expense Interest and debt expense primarily includes interest on corporate debt, the impact of interest rate hedging activities and amortization of debt issuance costs. 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents Separation Costs Separation costs include expenses related to our separation from American Express. These costs were primarily associated with establishing the Ameriprise Financial brand, separating and reestablishing our technology platforms and advisor and employee retention programs. Our separation from American Express was completed in 2007. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense includes compensation, share based awards and other benefits for employees (other than employees directly related to distribution, including financial advisors), professional and consultant fees, information technology, facilities and equipment, advertising and promotion, legal and regulatory and corporate related expenses. Owned, Managed and Administered Assets Owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we do not provide investment management services and do not recognize management fees, such as investments in non affiliated funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries, as well as restricted and segregated cash and receivables. Managed assets include managed external client assets and managed owned assets. Managed external client assets include client assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of the RiverSource, Seligman and Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings S&agrave;rl ("Threadneedle") families of mutual funds, assets of institutional clients and client assets held in wrap accounts. Managed external client assets also include assets managed by sub advisors selected by us. Managed external client assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Managed owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we provide investment management services and recognize management fees in our Asset Management segment, such as the assets of the general account and RiverSource Variable Product funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries. Investors in the mutual funds and face amount certificates we advise may redeem shares on each business day, provided that redemption orders are submitted in a timely fashion. For our institutional clients, advisory contracts may generally be terminated (and managed assets redeemed) upon 30 days written notice. However, we may in limited circumstances negotiate customized termination provisions with certain clients during the contracting process, or we may waive negotiated notice periods at our discretion. Investors in the private investment funds we sponsor can generally redeem shares as of each month end upon 30 days advance written notice, with limited exceptions. In addition, the notice requirements for our private investment funds may be waived or reduced at the discretion of the applicable fund. Administered assets include assets for which we provide administrative services such as client assets invested in other companies products that we offer outside of our wrap accounts. These assets include those held in clients brokerage accounts. We generally record fees received from administered assets as distribution fees. We do not exercise management discretion over these assets and do not earn a management fee. These assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We earn management fees on our owned separate account assets based on the market value of assets held in the separate accounts. We record the income associated with our owned investments, including net realized gains and losses associated with these investments and other than temporary impairments related to credit losses on these investments, as net investment income. For managed assets, we receive management fees based on the value of these assets. We generally report these fees as management and financial advice fees. We may also receive distribution fees based on the value of these assets. Our owned, managed and administered assets are impacted by net flows of client assets, market movements and foreign exchange rates. Owned assets are also affected by changes in our capital structure. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 47  Table of Contents The following table presents detail regarding our owned, managed and administered assets: December 31, 2009 2008 Change (in billions, except percentages) Owned Assets $ 36.9 $ 31.7 16 % Managed Assets(1): Domestic 149.0 127.9 16 International 97.8 74.2 32 Wrap account assets 94.9 72.8 30 Eliminations(2) (15.9 ) (10.0 ) 59 Total Managed Assets 325.8 264.9 23 Administered Assets 95.1 75.5 26 Total Owned, Managed and Administered Assets $ 457.8 $ 372.1 23 % (1)Includes managed external client assets and managed owned assets. (2)Includes eliminations for Domestic mutual fund assets included in wrap account assets and Domestic assets sub advised by Threadneedle. Consolidated Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 The following table presents our consolidated results of operations: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 2,704 $ 2,899 $ (195 ) (7 )% Distribution fees 1,420 1,565 (145 ) (9 ) Net investment income 2,002 817 1,185 NM Premiums 1,098 1,048 50 5 Other revenues 722 766 (44 ) (6 ) Total revenues 7,946 7,095 851 12 Banking and deposit interest expense 141 179 (38 ) (21 ) Total net revenues 7,805 6,916 889 13 Expenses Distribution expenses 1,782 1,912 (130 ) (7 ) Interest credited to fixed accounts 903 790 113 14 Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 1,342 1,125 217 19 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 217 933 (716 ) (77 ) Interest and debt expense 127 109 18 17 General and administrative expense 2,514 2,472 42 2 Total expenses 6,885 7,341 (456 ) (6 ) Pretax income (loss) 920 (425 ) 1,345 NM Income tax provision (benefit) 183 (333 ) 516 NM Net income (loss) 737 (92 ) 829 NM Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 15 (54 ) 69 NM Net income (loss) attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ 722 $ (38 ) $ 760 NM NM Not Meaningful. 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents Overall Net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial for 2009 was $722 million compared to a net loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial of $38 million for the prior year. Results for 2009 reflect the impacts from a 22% decline in the daily average S&P 500 Index on a period over period basis, lower short term interest rates and lower client activity, the costs of integrating our 2008 acquisitions offset by growth in spread products, net inflows in wrap accounts and Asset Management, and expense controls. Results for 2008 were impacted by market dislocation, including net realized investment losses, money market support costs and an increase in DAC and DSIC amortization, as well as integration and restructuring charges. Our annual review of valuation assumptions for RiverSource Life Insurance Company ("RiverSource Life") products in the third quarter of 2009 resulted in a net pretax benefit of $134 million, consisting of a decrease in expenses primarily from updating product mortality assumptions for certain life insurance products and from the impact of updating product spreads and expense assumptions, partially offset by a decrease in revenues related to the reinsurance impacts from updating product mortality assumptions. Third quarter 2008 results included a $106 million pretax benefit resulting from our review of valuation assumptions and our conversion to a new industry standard valuation system that provides enhanced modeling capabilities. The review of valuation assumptions in the third quarter of 2008 resulted in a decrease in expenses primarily from updating mortality and expense assumptions for certain life insurance products and from updating fund mix and policyholder behavior assumptions for variable annuities with guaranteed benefits. The valuation system conversion also resulted in an increase in revenue primarily from improved modeling of the expected value of existing reinsurance agreements and a decrease in expense from modeling annuity amortization periods at the individual policy level. The total pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009 attributable to the review of valuation assumptions for RiverSource Life products and the impact of markets on DAC and DSIC amortization, GMDB and GMIB riders, and variable annuity living benefit riders, net of hedges and DAC and DSIC amortization were as follows: Segment Pretax Benefit (Charge) Premiums Other Revenues Distribution Expenses Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Amortization of DAC Total (in millions) Review of valuation assumptions: Annuities $ $ $ $ 47 $ 64 $ 111 Protection (65 ) 33 55 23 Total $ $ (65 ) $ $ 80 $ 119 $ 134 Market impacts: Annuities $ $ $ $ (144 ) $ 136 $ (8 ) Protection 3 3 Total $ $ $ $ (144 ) $ 139 $ (5 ) ANNUAL REPORT 2009 49 Table of Contents The total pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 attributable to the review of valuation assumptions for RiverSource Life products, the valuation system conversion and the impact of markets on DAC and DSIC amortization, GMDB and GMIB riders, and variable annuity living benefit riders, net of hedges and DAC amortization were as follows: Segment Pretax Benefit (Charge) Premiums Other Revenues Distribution Expenses Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Amortization of DAC Total (in millions) Review of valuation assumptions and valuation system conversion: Annuities $ $ $ 1 $ 46 $ 9 $ 56 Protection 2 95 43 (90 ) 50 Total $ 2 $ 95 $ 1 $ 89 $ (81 ) $ 106 Market impacts: Annuities $ $ $ $ (9 ) $ (348 ) $ (357 ) Protection (56 ) (56 ) Total $ $ $ $ (9 ) $ (404 ) $ (413 ) Net revenues Net revenues increased $889 million, or 13%, to $7.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $6.9 billion for the prior year. The increase in net revenues was driven by an increase in net investment income, as well as revenues resulting from our 2008 acquisitions, an increase in premiums and lower banking and deposit interest expense, partially offset by lower management and financial advice fees and distribution fees due to lower average asset levels attributable to the decline in equity markets and a decrease in other revenues due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions. Management and financial advice fees decreased $195 million, or 7%, to $2.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $2.9 billion for the prior year driven by a 22% decline in the daily average S&P 500 Index on a period over period basis, as well as the negative impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by strong hedge fund performance and net inflows. Wrap account assets increased $22.1 billion, or 30%, compared to the prior year due to market appreciation and net flows. Total Asset Management account assets increased $43.6 billion, or 22%, compared to the prior year due to market appreciation, as well as net inflows and the positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Distribution fees decreased $145 million, or 9%, to $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1.6 billion in the prior year primarily due to lower client activity levels and lower asset based fees driven by lower equity markets, partially offset by revenues resulting from our 2008 acquisitions. Net investment income increased $1.2 billion to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $817 million in the prior year, primarily due to $53 million in net realized investment gains for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $777 million in net realized investment losses for the year ended December 31, 2008 and an increase of $273 million in investment income on fixed maturity securities. For the year ended December 31, 2009, net realized gains from sales of Available for Sale securities were $163 million and other than temporary impairments recognized in earnings were $93 million, which related to credit losses on non agency residential mortgage backed securities, corporate debt securities primarily in the gaming, banking and finance industries and other structured investments. For the year ended December 31, 2008, net realized gains from sales of Available for Sale securities were $5 million and other than temporary impairments recognized in earnings were $762 million, which related to credit losses on non agency residential mortgage backed securities, corporate debt securities primarily in the financial services and gaming industries and asset backed and other securities. The increase in investment income earned on fixed maturity securities was driven by higher invested asset levels, primarily from spread product net inflows and higher yields on the longer term fixed income investments in our investment portfolio. Premiums increased $50 million, or 5%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily due to growth in Auto and Home premiums compared to the prior year driven by higher volumes, as well as higher sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies. Auto and Home policy counts increased 9% period over period. 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents Other revenues decreased $44 million, or 6%, to $722 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $766 million in the prior year due to a $65 million negative impact from updating valuation assumptions in the third quarter of 2009 compared to a $95 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system for RiverSource Life products in the third quarter of 2008. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in revenues related to certain consolidated limited partnerships, as well as an increase in our guaranteed benefit rider fees on variable annuities and a $58 million gain in 2009 on the repurchase of certain of our 7.5% junior subordinated notes due 2066 ("junior notes") compared to $19 million in 2008. Other revenues in 2008 included $36 million from the sale of certain operating assets. Banking and deposit interest expense decreased $38 million, or 21%, to $141 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $179 million in the prior year primarily due to lower crediting rates on certificates and banking deposit products. Expenses Total expenses decreased $456 million, or 6%, to $6.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $7.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in expenses was primarily due to a decrease in distribution expenses, the impact of updating valuation assumptions, the impact of market performance on amortization of DAC and DSIC and expense controls, partially offset by ongoing and integration expenses related to our 2008 acquisitions, higher performance based compensation and higher interest credited to fixed accounts compared to the prior year. Distribution expenses decreased $130 million, or 7%, to $1.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1.9 billion in the prior year reflecting lower equity markets and client activity levels, partially offset by expenses resulting from our 2008 acquisitions. Interest credited to fixed accounts increased $113 million, or 14%, to $903 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $790 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, primarily due to higher average fixed annuity account balances and higher average fixed annuity crediting rates compared to the prior year. Average fixed annuities contract accumulation values increased $1.9 billion, or 16%, compared to the prior year. The average fixed annuity crediting rate excluding capitalized interest increased to 3.9% in 2009 compared to 3.7% in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $217 million, or 19%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year driven by an increase in expenses from variable annuity living benefit guarantees. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2009 were impacted by $148 million of market impacts on variable annuity benefit expenses, net of hedges and DSIC, compared to a benefit of $32 million in 2008. The non cash impact of the nonperformance spread on the fair value of living benefit liabilities increased benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2009 compared to a decrease in 2008. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses related to our auto and home business increased in 2009 primarily due to higher business volumes. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2009 included a benefit of $80 million from updating valuation assumptions compared to a benefit of $89 million in the prior year from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system. The impact of market performance in 2009 decreased DSIC amortization by $4 million compared to an expense of $41 million in the prior year. Amortization of DAC decreased $716 million, or 77%, to $217 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $933 million in the prior year. DAC amortization in 2009 included a $119 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions in the third quarter of 2009 compared to an expense of $81 million from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system in the prior year. DAC amortization in 2009 was reduced by $139 million due to market impacts, including $113 million offsetting higher variable annuity benefits expenses, net of hedges. DAC amortization in 2008 was increased by $404 million due to market impacts, including a $111 million expense offsetting gains on variable annuity benefits, net of hedges. Interest and debt expense increased $18 million, or 17%, to $127 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $109 million in the prior year primarily due to an expense of $13 million in 2009 related to the early retirement of $450 million of our 5.35% senior notes due 2010. General and administrative expense increased $42 million, or 2%, to $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. General and administrative expense in 2009 included integration costs of $98 million and ongoing costs resulting from our 2008 acquisitions and increases in hedge fund performance compensation, our performance compensation pool and legal expenses, partially offset by cost controls. General and administrative expense in 2008 included a $77 million expense related to the mark to market of Lehman Brothers ANNUAL REPORT 2009 51 Table of Contents securities that we purchased from various 2a 7 money market mutual funds managed by RiverSource Investments, LLC, $36 million in costs related to guaranteeing specific client holdings in an unaffiliated money market mutual fund and $60 million in restructuring charges. The positive impact of foreign currency translation on general and administrative expense in 2009 partially offset the negative impact of foreign currency translation on management and financial advice fees. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was 19.9% for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to 78.4% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 reflects the level of pretax income relative to tax advantaged items and $79 million in tax benefits related to changes in the status of current audits and closed audits, tax planning initiatives, and the finalization of prior year tax returns. On September 25, 2007, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") issued Revenue Ruling 2007 61 in which it announced that it intends to issue regulations with respect to certain computational aspects of the Dividends Received Deduction ("DRD") related to separate account assets held in connection with variable contracts of life insurance companies. Revenue Ruling 2007 61 suspended a revenue ruling issued in August 2007 that purported to change accepted industry and IRS interpretations of the statutes governing these computational questions. Any regulations that the IRS ultimately proposes for issuance in this area will be subject to public notice and comment, at which time insurance companies and other members of the public will have the opportunity to raise legal and practical questions about the content, scope and application of such regulations. As a result, the ultimate timing and substance of any such regulations are unknown at this time, but they may result in the elimination of some or all of the separate account DRD tax benefit that we receive. Management believes that it is likely that any such regulations would apply prospectively only. Additionally, included in the Administrations 2011 Revenue Proposals is a provision to modify the DRD for life insurance companies separate accounts, which if enacted could significantly reduce the DRD tax benefits the Company receives, prospectively, beginning in 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a benefit of approximately $62 million related to the current years separate account DRD. 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents Results of Operations by Segment Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 The following tables present summary financial information by segment and reconciliation to consolidated totals derived from Note 26 to our Consolidated Financial Statements: Years Ended December 31, 2009 Percent Share of Total 2008 Percent Share of Total (in millions, except percentages) Total net revenues Advice & Wealth Management $ 3,216 41 % $ 3,110 45 % Asset Management 1,368 18 1,289 19 Annuities 2,265 29 1,618 23 Protection 1,971 25 1,954 28 Corporate & Other 2 (1 ) Eliminations (1,017 ) (13 ) (1,054 ) (15 ) Total net revenues $ 7,805 100 % $ 6,916 100 % Total expenses Advice & Wealth Management $ 3,250 48 % $ 3,259 44 % Asset Management 1,293 19 1,266 17 Annuities 1,617 23 1,905 26 Protection 1,475 21 1,602 22 Corporate & Other 267 4 363 5 Eliminations (1,017 ) (15 ) (1,054 ) (14 ) Total expenses $ 6,885 100 % $ 7,341 100 % Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests Asset Management $ 15 100 % $ (54 ) 100 % Pretax income (loss) attributable to Ameriprise Financial Advice & Wealth Management $ (34 ) (5 )% $ (149 ) 40 % Asset Management 60 7 77 (21 ) Annuities 648 72 (287 ) 77 Protection 496 55 352 (94 ) Corporate & Other (265 ) (29 ) (364 ) 98 Pretax income (loss) attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ 905 100 % $ (371 ) 100 % Advice & Wealth Management Our Advice & Wealth Management segment provides financial planning and advice, as well as full service brokerage and banking services, primarily to retail clients through our financial advisors. Our affiliated financial advisors utilize a diversified selection of both affiliated and non affiliated products to help clients meet their financial needs. A significant portion of revenues in this segment is fee based, driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on owned assets primarily from certificate and banking products. This segment earns revenues (distribution fees) for distributing non affiliated products and earns intersegment revenues (distribution fees) for distributing our affiliated products and services provided to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include expenses for investment management services provided by the Asset Management segment. In addition to purchases of affiliated and non affiliated mutual funds and other securities on a stand alone basis, clients may purchase mutual funds, among other securities, in connection with investment advisory fee based "wrap account" programs or services, and pay fees based on a percentage of their assets. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 53 Table of Contents The following table presents the changes in wrap account assets: 2009 2008 (in billions) Balance at January 1 $ 72.8 $ 93.9 Net flows 9.3 3.7 Market appreciation/(depreciation) 12.8 (26.8 ) Other 2.0 Balance at December 31 $ 94.9 $ 72.8 Our wrap accounts had net inflows of $9.3 billion in 2009 compared to net inflows of $3.7 billion in 2008 and market appreciation of $12.8 billion in 2009 compared to market depreciation of $26.8 billion in 2008. In 2008, we acquired $2.0 billion in wrap account assets attributable to our acquisition of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc. We provide securities execution and clearing services for our retail and institutional clients through our registered broker dealer subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2009, we administered $95.1 billion in assets for clients, an increase of $19.6 billion compared to the prior year primarily due to market appreciation. The following table presents the results of operations of our Advice & Wealth Management segment: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,234 $ 1,339 $ (105 ) (8 )% Distribution fees 1,733 1,912 (179 ) (9 ) Net investment income 297 (43 ) 340 NM Other revenues 85 80 5 6 Total revenues 3,349 3,288 61 2 Banking and deposit interest expense 133 178 (45 ) (25 ) Total net revenues 3,216 3,110 106 3 Expenses Distribution expenses 1,968 2,121 (153 ) (7 ) General and administrative expense 1,282 1,138 144 13 Total expenses 3,250 3,259 (9 ) Pretax loss $ (34 ) $ (149 ) $ 115 77 % NM Not Meaningful. Our Advice & Wealth Management segment pretax loss was $34 million in 2009 compared to pretax loss of $149 million in 2008. Net revenues Net revenues were $3.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $3.1 billion in the prior year, an increase of $106 million, or 3%, driven by an increase in net investment income as well as revenues resulting from our 2008 acquisitions and a decrease in banking and deposit interest expense, partially offset by decreases in management and financial advice fees and distribution fees. Management and financial advice fees decreased $105 million, or 8%, to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, driven by a 22% decline in the daily average S&P 500 Index on a period over period basis, partially offset by net inflows. Wrap account assets increased $22.1 billion, or 30%, compared to the prior year due to net inflows and market appreciation. Financial planning fees were lower for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the prior year resulting from accelerated financial plan delivery standards in 2008. Distribution fees decreased $179 million, or 9%, to $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to lower client activity levels and lower asset based fees driven by lower equity markets, partially offset by revenues resulting from our 2008 acquisitions. 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents Net investment income increased $340 million to $297 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Net realized investment losses were $15 million in 2009 compared to $333 million in the prior year due to lower impairments recorded on Available for Sale securities. Investment income on fixed maturity securities increased $27 million driven by higher invested asset levels primarily from spread product net inflows, partially offset by a decline in short term interest rates. Banking and deposit interest expense decreased $45 million, or 25%, to $133 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to lower crediting rates on certificates and banking deposit products. Expenses Total expenses decreased $9 million to $3.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to a decrease in distribution expenses partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expense. Distribution expenses decreased $153 million, or 7%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, reflecting lower equity markets and client activity levels, partially offset by expenses resulting from our 2008 acquisitions. General and administrative expense increased $144 million, or 13%, from the prior year primarily due to integration costs of $64 million and ongoing expenses from our acquisition of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2008, as well as higher performance compensation accruals and legal expenses. Asset Management Our Asset Management segment provides investment advice and investment products to retail and institutional clients. RiverSource Investments predominantly provides U.S. domestic products and services and Threadneedle predominantly provides international investment products and services. U.S. domestic retail products are primarily distributed through the Advice & Wealth Management segment and also through unaffiliated advisors. International retail products are primarily distributed through third parties. Retail products include mutual funds, variable product funds underlying insurance and annuity separate accounts, separately managed accounts and collective funds. Asset Management products are also distributed directly to institutions through an institutional sales force. Institutional asset management products include traditional asset classes, separate accounts, collateralized loan obligations, hedge funds and property funds. Revenues in this segment are primarily earned as fees based on managed asset balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. The asset management teams serving our Asset Management segment provide all intercompany asset management services for Ameriprise Financial, and the fees for all such services are reflected within the Asset Management segment results through intersegment allocations. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by the Advice & Wealth Management, Annuities and Protection segments. We provide investment advisory, distribution and other services to three families of mutual funds: the RiverSource, Seligman and Threadneedle mutual fund families. Our RiverSource family of mutual funds consists of the RiverSource Funds, a group of retail mutual funds; the RiverSource Variable Series Trust Funds ("VST Funds"), a group of variable product funds available as investment options in variable insurance and annuity products; the Seligman Funds, a group of retail funds formerly managed by J. & W. Seligman Co. prior to its acquisition by RiverSource Investments, LLC; the Seligman Variable Insurance Trusts ("VITs"), a group of variable product funds; and the Seligman closed end funds. The following table presents the total assets and number of funds managed by our RiverSource family of mutual funds as of December 31, 2009: Managed Assets Number of Funds (in billions) RiverSource Funds $ 42.3 77 RiverSource VST Funds 26.0 24 Seligman Funds 8.3 28 Seligman VITs 0.3 3 $ 76.9 132 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 55 Table of Contents Threadneedle manages four Open Ended Investment Companies ("OEICs") and two Societe dInvestissement &agrave; Capital Variable ("SICAV") offerings. The four OEICs are Threadneedle Investment Funds ICVC ("TIF"), Threadneedle Specialist Investment Funds ICVC ("TSIF"), Threadneedle Focus Investment Funds ("TFIF") and Threadneedle Advantage Portfolio Funds ("TPAF"). TIF, TSIF, TFIF and TPAF are structured as umbrella companies with a total of 51 (33, 13, 2 and 3, respectively) sub funds covering the worlds bond and equity markets. The two SICAVs are the Threadneedle (Lux) SICAV ("T(Lux)") and World Express Funds 2 ("WEF2"). T(Lux) and WEF2 are structured as umbrella companies with a total of 30 (28 and 2 respectively) sub funds covering the worlds bond and equity markets. In addition, Threadneedle manages 13 unit trusts, 10 of which invest into the OEICs, 6 property unit trusts, 1 Dublin based cash OEIC and 1 property fund of funds. The following table presents the mutual fund performance of our retail Domestic and International funds: December 31 2009 2008 Mutual Fund Performance Domestic Equal Weighted Mutual Fund Rankings in top 2 Lipper Quartiles(1) Equity 12 month 51 % 33 % Fixed income 12 month 65 % 70 % Equity 3 year 42 % 50 % Fixed income 3 year 72 % 75 % Equity 5 year 63 % 53 % Fixed income 5 year 58 % 66 % Asset Weighted Mutual Fund Rankings in top 2 Lipper Quartiles(2) Equity 12 month 72 % 26 % Fixed income 12 month 80 % 39 % Equity 3 year 50 % 40 % Fixed income 3 year 63 % 40 % Equity 5 year 69 % 70 % Fixed income 5 year 58 % 37 % International Equal Weighted Mutual Fund Rankings in top 2 S&P Quartiles(1) Equity 12 month 38 % 83 % Fixed income 12 month 60 % 45 % Equity 3 year 90 % 90 % Fixed income 3 year 80 % 64 % Equity 5 year 89 % 89 % Fixed income 5 year 78 % 50 % (1)Equal Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Counts the number of Class A funds with above median ranking divided by the total number of Class A funds. Asset size is not a factor. (2)Asset Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Sums the assets of the Class A funds with above median ranking divided by the total Class A assets. Funds with more assets will receive a greater share of the total percentage above or below median. Aggregated data shows only actively managed mutual funds by affiliated investment managers. Aggregated data does not include mutual funds sub advised by advisors not affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc., RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund, RiverSource Cash Management Fund and RiverSource Tax Free Money Market Fund. Aggregated equity rankings include RiverSource Portfolio Builder Series and other balanced and asset allocation funds that invest in both equities and fixed income. RiverSource Portfolio Builder Series funds are funds of mutual funds that may invest in third party sub advised funds. We also offer Separately Managed Accounts ("SMAs"), management of Institutional Owned Assets, management of collateralized debt obligations ("CDOs"), sub advisory services for certain domestic and international mutual funds, hedge funds and RiverSource Trust Collective Funds and separate accounts for Ameriprise Trust Company clients. 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2009  Table of Contents The following tables present the changes in Domestic and International managed assets: December 31, 2008 Net Flows Market Appreciation/ (Depreciation) Foreign Exchange Other December 31, 2009 (in billions) Domestic Managed Assets: Retail Funds $ 63.9 $ (2.4 ) $ 15.4 $ $ $ 76.9 Institutional Funds 46.3 4.0 4.6 54.9 Alternative Funds 9.4 (0.1 ) 0.6 9.9 Trust Funds 8.4 (1.4 ) 0.4 7.4 Less: Eliminations (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Total Domestic Managed Assets 127.9 0.1 21.0 149.0 International Managed Assets: Retail Funds 16.3 4.8 3.9 1.8 2.3 (1) 29.1 Institutional Funds 55.3 (1.4 ) 5.6 5.4 1.9 66.8 Alternative Funds 2.6 0.1 (1.0 ) 0.2 1.9 Total International Managed Assets 74.2 3.5 8.5 7.4 4.2 97.8 Less: Sub Advised Eliminations (2.5 ) (1.1 ) (3.6 ) Total Managed Assets $ 199.6 $ 3.6 $ 29.5 $ 7.4 $ 3.1 $ 243.2 (1)Includes assets due to the addition of Standard Chartered Banks World Express Funds investment business. December 31, 2007 Net Flows Market Appreciation/ (Depreciation) Foreign Exchange Other December 31, 2008 (in billions) Domestic Managed Assets: Retail Funds $ 86.9 $ (5.4 ) $ (24.3 ) $ $ 6.7 (1) $ 63.9 Institutional Funds 53.2 (4.7 ) (5.4 ) 3.2 (1) 46.3 Alternative Funds 8.1 (1.2 ) (0.3 ) 2.8 (1) 9.4 Trust Funds 8.8 (0.1 ) (0.3 ) 8.4 Less: Eliminations (0.7 ) 0.6 (0.1 ) Total Domestic Managed Assets 156.3 (11.4 ) (30.3 ) 13.3 127.9 International Managed Assets: Retail Funds 30.8 (1.9 ) (6.4 ) (6.4 ) 0.2 16.3 Institutional Funds 100.1 (13.3 ) (13.6 ) (21.7 ) 3.8 55.3 Alternative Funds 3.5 (0.6 ) 0.2 (0.5 ) 2.6 Total International Managed Assets 134.4 (15.8 ) (19.8 ) (28.6 ) 4.0 74.2 Less: Sub Advised Eliminations (5.6 ) 3.1 (2.5 ) Total Managed Assets $ 285.1 $ (27.2 ) $ (50.1 ) $ (28.6 ) $ 20.4 $ 199.6 (1)Includes assets due to the acquisition of J. & W. Seligman & Co. In 2009, Domestic managed assets had $119 million in net inflows compared to net outflows of $11.4 billion during 2008 and market appreciation of $21.0 billion in 2009 compared to market depreciation of $30.3 billion in 2008. International managed assets had $3.5 billion in net inflows in 2009 compared to net outflows of $15.8 billion in 2008 and market appreciation of $8.5 billion in 2009 compared to market depreciation of $19.8 billion in 2008. The positive impact on International managed assets due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates was $7.4 billion in 2009 compared to a negative impact of $28.6 billion in 2008. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 57 Table of Contents The following table presents the results of operations of our Asset Management segment: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,104 $ 1,077 $ 27 3 % Distribution fees 216 247 (31 ) (13 ) Net investment income 20 (13 ) 33 NM Other revenues 36 (15 ) 51 NM Total revenues 1,376 1,296 80 6 Banking and deposit interest expense 8 7 1 14 Total net revenues 1,368 1,289 79 6 Expenses Distribution expenses 371 417 (46 ) (11 ) Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 21 24 (3 ) (13 ) General and administrative expense 901 825 76 9 Total expenses 1,293 1,266 27 2 Pretax income 75 23 52 NM Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 15 (54 ) 69 NM Pretax income attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ 60 $ 77 $ (17 ) (22 )% NM Not Meaningful. Our Asset Management segment pretax income attributable to Ameriprise Financial was $60 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $77 million in the prior year. Net revenues Net revenues increased $79 million, or 6%, to $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to an increase in management and financial advice fees, net investment income and other revenues, partially offset by a decline in distribution fees. Management and financial advice fees increased $27 million, or 3%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to strong hedge fund performance and net inflows, partially offset by a 22% decline in the daily average S&P 500 Index on a period over period basis, as well as the negative impact of foreign currency translation. Total Asset Management account assets increased $43.6 billion, or 22%, compared to the prior year due to market appreciation, as well as net inflows in International managed assets and the positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Distribution fees decreased $31 million, or 13%, to $216 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to lower 12b 1 fees driven by lower average assets. Net investment income was $20 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to net investment loss of $13 million in the prior year primarily due to losses related to mark to market adjustments on seed money investments in 2008. Other revenues increased $51 million compared to the prior year due to an increase in revenues related to certain consolidated limited partnerships, partially offset by revenue from the sale of certain operating assets in 2008. Expenses Total expenses increased $27 million, or 2%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to an increase in general and administrative expense partially offset by a decrease in distribution expenses. 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents Distribution expenses decreased $46 million, or 11%, to $371 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to lower average assets. General and administrative expense increased $76 million, or 9%, to $901 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to integration costs and ongoing expenses from our acquisition of Seligman in the fourth quarter of 2008 and increases in hedge fund performance compensation, our performance compensation pool and legal expenses, partially offset by expense controls and a positive impact of foreign currency translation. The positive impact of foreign currency translation on general and administrative expense partially offset the negative impact of foreign currency translation on management and financial advice fees. Annuities Our Annuities segment provides variable and fixed annuity products of RiverSource Life companies to retail clients primarily distributed through our affiliated financial advisors and to the retail clients of unaffiliated advisors through third party distribution. Revenues for our variable annuity products are primarily earned as fees based on underlying account balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. Revenues for our fixed annuity products are primarily earned as net investment income on assets supporting fixed account balances, with profitability significantly impacted by the spread between net investment income earned and interest credited on the fixed account balances. We also earn net investment income on owned assets supporting reserves for immediate annuities and for certain guaranteed benefits offered with variable annuities and on capital supporting the business. Intersegment revenues for this segment reflect fees paid by the Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource VST Funds under the variable annuity contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by the Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by the Asset Management segment. In 2009, RiverSource variable annuities had net inflows of $1.8 billion, and variable annuity contract accumulation values increased $11.8 billion. These changes in variable annuities affected both RiverSource managed owned assets and owned assets. Our fixed annuities had total net inflows of $1.9 billion in 2009 compared to net outflows of $0.7 billion in the prior year, which impacted our RiverSource managed owned assets. The following table presents the results of operations of our Annuities segment: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 438 $ 478 $ (40 ) (8 )% Distribution fees 247 275 (28 ) (10 ) Net investment income 1,323 652 671 NM Premiums 104 85 19 22 Other revenues 153 128 25 20 Total revenues 2,265 1,618 647 40 Banking and deposit interest expense Total net revenues 2,265 1,618 647 40 Expenses Distribution expenses 211 207 4 2 Interest credited to fixed accounts 759 646 113 17 Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 418 269 149 55 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 37 576 (539 ) (94 ) General and administrative expense 192 207 (15 ) (7 ) Total expenses 1,617 1,905 (288 ) (15 ) Pretax income (loss) $ 648 $ (287 ) $ 935 NM NM Not Meaningful. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 59 Table of Contents Our Annuities segment pretax income was $648 million in 2009 compared to pretax loss of $287 million in 2008. Net revenues Net revenues increased $647 million, or 40%, to $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily driven by an increase in net investment income, partially offset by decreases in management and financial advice fees and distribution fees. Management and financial advice fees decreased $40 million, or 8%, to $438 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to lower fees on variable annuities. Average variable annuities contract accumulation values decreased $4.6 billion or 10% from the prior year primarily due to equity market declines, partially offset by net inflows. Distribution fees decreased $28 million, or 10%, to $247 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to lower fees on variable annuities driven by the equity market decline. Net investment income increased $671 million to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to an increase of $261 million in investment income on fixed maturity securities and net realized investment gains of $44 million in 2009 compared to net realized investment losses of $350 million in 2008 primarily due to impairments on Available for Sale securities. The increase in investment income on fixed maturity securities was driven by higher invested asset levels primarily due to fixed and variable annuity net inflows and higher yields on the longer term investments in our fixed income investment portfolio. Premiums increased $19 million, or 22%, to $104 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to higher sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies. Other revenues increased $25 million, or 20%, to $153 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to an increase in guaranteed benefit rider fees on variable annuities. Expenses Total expenses decreased $288 million, or 15%, to $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions and the impact of market performance on amortization of DAC and DSIC, partially offset by higher interest credited to fixed accounts compared to the prior year. Distribution expenses increased $4 million, or 2%, to $211 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to higher non deferred distribution related costs driven by higher sales of fixed annuities. Interest credited to fixed accounts increased $113 million, or 17%, to $759 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to higher average fixed annuity account balances and higher average fixed annuity crediting rates compared to the prior year. Average fixed annuities contract accumulation values increased $1.9 billion, or 16%, compared to the prior year. The average fixed annuity crediting rate excluding capitalized interest increased to 3.9% in 2009 compared to 3.7% in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $149 million, or 55%, to $418 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily driven by an increase in expenses from variable annuity living benefit guarantees. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2009 were impacted by $148 million of market impacts on variable annuity benefit expenses, net of hedges and DSIC, compared to a $32 million benefit in 2008. The non cash impact of the nonperformance spread on the fair value of living benefit liabilities increased benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2009 compared to a decrease in 2008. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2009 included a benefit of $47 million from updating valuation assumptions compared to a benefit of $46 million in the prior year from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system. The impact of market performance in 2009 decreased DSIC amortization by $4 million compared to an expense of $41 million in the prior year. Amortization of DAC decreased $539 million, or 94%, to $37 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $576 million in the prior year. DAC amortization in 2009 included a $64 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions in 2009 compared to a $9 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system in the prior year. DAC amortization in 2009 was reduced by $136 million due to market impacts, including $113 million offsetting higher variable annuity benefit expenses, net of hedges. DAC amortization in 2008 was increased by $348 million due to market impacts, including a $111 million expense offsetting gains on variable annuity benefits, net of hedges. 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents General and administrative expense decreased $15 million, or 7%, to $192 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to expense controls. Protection Our Protection segment offers a variety of protection products to address the protection and risk management needs of our retail clients including life, disability income and property casualty insurance. Life and disability income products are primarily distributed through our branded advisors. Our property casualty products are sold direct, primarily through affinity relationships. We issue insurance policies through our life insurance subsidiaries and the property casualty companies. The primary sources of revenues for this segment are premiums, fees, and charges that we receive to assume insurance related risk. We earn net investment income on owned assets supporting insurance reserves and capital supporting the business. We also receive fees based on the level of assets supporting variable universal life separate account balances. This segment earns intersegment revenues from fees paid by the Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource VST Funds under the variable universal life contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by the Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by the Asset Management segment. The following table presents the results of operations of our Protection segment: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 47 $ 56 $ (9 ) (16 )% Distribution fees 97 106 (9 ) (8 ) Net investment income 422 252 170 67 Premiums 1,020 994 26 3 Other revenues 386 547 (161 ) (29 ) Total revenues 1,972 1,955 17 1 Banking and deposit interest expense 1 1 Total net revenues 1,971 1,954 17 1 Expenses Distribution expenses 22 18 4 22 Interest credited to fixed accounts 144 144 Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 924 856 68 8 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 159 333 (174 ) (52 ) General and administrative expense 226 251 (25 ) (10 ) Total expenses 1,475 1,602 (127 ) (8 ) Pretax income $ 496 $ 352 $ 144 41 % Our Protection segment pretax income was $496 million for 2009, an increase of $144 million, or 41%, from $352 million in 2008. Net revenues Net revenues increased $17 million, or 1%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to an increase in net investment income and premiums, partially offset by a decrease in other revenues related to updating valuation assumptions. Net investment income increased $170 million, or 67%, to $422 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to net realized investment gains of $27 million in 2009 compared to net realized investment losses of $92 million in the prior year primarily related to impairments of Available for Sale securities. In addition, investment income earned on fixed maturity securities increased $46 million compared to the prior year driven by higher yields on the longer term investments in our fixed income investment portfolio. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 61 Table of Contents Premiums increased $26 million, or 3%, to $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to growth in Auto and Home premiums compared to the prior year driven by higher volumes. Auto and Home policy counts increased 9% period over period. Other revenues decreased $161 million, or 29%, to $386 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to a $65 million expense from updating valuation assumptions in 2009 compared to a $95 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system for RiverSource Life products in 2008. Expenses Total expenses decreased $127 million, or 8%, to $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $68 million, or 8%, to $924 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to volume driven increases in Auto and Home reserves, as well as a lower benefit from updating valuation assumptions in 2009 compared to the benefit from updating valuation assumptions and implementing a new valuation system in 2008. Amortization of DAC decreased $174 million, or 52%, to $159 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to a benefit of $55 million from updating valuation assumptions in 2009 compared to an expense of $90 million from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system in the prior year. The impact of market performance in 2009 decreased DAC amortization by $3 million compared to an expense of $56 million in the prior year. General and administrative expense decreased $25 million, or 10%, to $226 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to the write off of certain capitalized software costs in 2008 and lower premium taxes compared to the prior year. Corporate & Other Our Corporate & Other segment consists of net investment income on corporate level assets, including excess capital held in our subsidiaries and other unallocated equity and other revenues from various investments as well as unallocated corporate expenses. The following table presents the results of operations of our Corporate & Other segment: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Net investment income $ (59 ) $ (25 ) $ (34 ) NM Other revenues 62 26 36 NM Total revenues 3 1 2 NM Banking and deposit interest expense 1 2 (1 ) (50 ) Total net revenues 2 (1 ) 3 NM Expenses Distribution expenses 3 1 2 NM Interest and debt expense 127 109 18 17 General and administrative expense 137 253 (116 ) (46 ) Total expenses 267 363 (96 ) (26 ) Pretax loss $ (265 ) $ (364 ) $ 99 27 % NM Not Meaningful. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax loss was $265 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $364 million in the prior year. 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents Net revenues increased $3 million compared to the prior year. Net investment loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 reflects the transfer priced interest income allocated to the Annuities and Protection segments for maintaining excess liquidity and the period over period decline in short term interest rates. The increase in other revenues compared to the prior year was due to a $58 million gain on the repurchase of $135 million of our junior notes in 2009 compared to a gain of $19 million on the repurchase of $43 million of our junior notes in 2008. Total expenses decreased $96 million, or 26%, to $267 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Interest and debt expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 included a $13 million expense related to the early retirement of $450 million of our 5.35% senior notes due 2010. General and administrative expense decreased $116 million, or 46%, compared to the prior year due to money market support costs incurred in 2008, including $77 million related to the mark to market of Lehman Brothers securities that we purchased from various 2a 7 money market mutual funds managed by our subsidiary, RiverSource Investments, LLC and $36 million for the cost of guaranteeing specific client holdings in an unaffiliated money market mutual fund, and $60 million in restructuring charges in 2008, partially offset by higher performance compensation accruals and legal expenses in 2009. Consolidated Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 The following table presents our consolidated results of operations: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 2,899 $ 3,238 $ (339 ) (10 )% Distribution fees 1,565 1,762 (197 ) (11 ) Net investment income 817 2,014 (1,197 ) (59 ) Premiums 1,048 1,017 31 3 Other revenues 766 724 42 6 Total revenues 7,095 8,755 (1,660 ) (19 ) Banking and deposit interest expense 179 249 (70 ) (28 ) Total net revenues 6,916 8,506 (1,590 ) (19 ) Expenses Distribution expenses 1,912 2,011 (99 ) (5 ) Interest credited to fixed accounts 790 847 (57 ) (7 ) Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 1,125 1,179 (54 ) (5 ) Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 933 551 382 69 Interest and debt expense 109 112 (3 ) (3 ) Separation costs 236 (236 ) (100 ) General and administrative expense 2,472 2,562 (90 ) (4 ) Total expenses 7,341 7,498 (157 ) (2 ) Pretax income (loss) (425 ) 1,008 (1,433 ) NM Income tax provision (benefit) (333 ) 202 (535 ) NM Net income (loss) (92 ) 806 (898 ) NM Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (54 ) (8 ) (46 ) NM Net income (loss) attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ (38 ) $ 814 $ (852 ) NM NM Not Meaningful. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 63 Table of Contents Overall Net loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial was $38 million for 2008, down $852 million from net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial of $814 million for 2007. The loss in 2008 was primarily attributable to negative economic, credit and equity market trends that accelerated in the third and fourth quarters of 2008. The S&P 500 Index ended 2008 at 903 compared to 1,468 at the end of 2007, a drop of 565 points, or 38%. Credit spreads widened in the fourth quarter of 2008 as reflected in the 114 basis point increase in the Barclays U.S. Corporate Investment Grade Index and the 642 basis point increase in the Barclays High Yield Index. Short term interest rates declined in the fourth quarter of 2008 as the Fed Funds rate was reduced to 0 25 basis points. Pretax net realized investment losses on Available for Sale securities were $757 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, which primarily related to other than temporary impairments of various financial services securities, high yield corporate credits and residential mortgage backed securities, compared to pretax net realized investment gains on Available for Sale securities of $44 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. In response to the accelerated market deterioration in the fourth quarter of 2008, management increased the discount rate, expected loss and severity rates used to value non agency residential mortgage backed securities and increased the expected default rates for high yield corporate credits, which resulted in $420 million in pretax net realized investment losses. Consolidated net loss for 2008 included $192 million in integration and restructuring charges and support costs related to the RiverSource 2a 7 money market funds and unaffiliated money market funds. Included in consolidated net income for the year ended December 31, 2007 were $236 million of pretax non recurring separation costs. Results for the year ended December 31, 2008 also included an increase in DAC and DSIC amortization due to the market dislocation in 2008, as well as an increase in GMDB and GMIB benefits due to lower equity markets. These negative impacts were partially offset by a benefit resulting from our annual review of valuation assumptions for products of RiverSource Life companies in the third quarter of 2008 and our conversion to a new industry standard valuation system that provides enhanced modeling capabilities. The annual review of valuation assumptions resulted in a decrease in expenses resulting primarily from updating mortality and expense assumptions for certain life insurance products and from updating fund mix and contractholder behavior assumptions for variable annuities with guaranteed benefits. The valuation system conversion also resulted in an increase in revenue primarily from improved modeling of the expected value of existing reinsurance agreements and a decrease in expense from modeling annuity amortization periods at the individual policy level. Our annual review of valuation assumptions in the third quarter of 2007 resulted in a net $30 million increase in expense from updating product persistency assumptions, partially offset by decreases in expense from updating other assumptions. The total pretax impacts on revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 attributable to the annual review of valuation assumptions for products of RiverSource Life companies, the valuation system conversion and the impact of markets on DAC and DSIC amortization, variable annuity living benefit riders, net of hedges and GMDB and GMIB benefits were as follows: Segment Pretax Benefit (Charge) Premiums Other Revenues Distribution Expenses Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Amortization of DAC Total (in millions) Annuities $ $ $ 1 $ 37 $ (339 ) $ (301 ) Protection 2 95 43 (146 ) (6 ) Total $ 2 $ 95 $ 1 $ 80 $ (485 ) $ (307 ) 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents The total pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007 attributable to the review of valuation assumptions for products of RiverSource Life companies and the impact of markets on DAC and DSIC amortization and variable annuity living benefit riders, net of hedges were as follows: Segment Pretax Benefit (Charge) Premiums Other Revenues Distribution Expenses Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Amortization of DAC Total (in millions) Annuities $ $ $ $ (38 ) $ 27 $ (11 ) Protection (2 ) (9 ) (20 ) (31 ) Total $ $ (2 ) $ $ (47 ) $ 7 $ (42 ) Net revenues Our decrease in net revenues is primarily attributable to the decline in equity markets and related credit market events. Management and financial advice fees decreased $339 million, or 10%, to $2.9 billion in 2008 compared to $3.2 billion in 2007. Total client assets as of December 31, 2008 were $241.4 billion compared to $293.9 billion as of December 31, 2007, a decrease of $52.5 billion, or 18%. Wrap account assets decreased $21.1 billion, or 22%, due to weak equity markets in 2008, partially offset by inflows and an increase in assets of $2.0 billion related to our acquisition of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2008. Market depreciation on wrap account assets was $26.8 billion during 2008 compared to market appreciation of $5.8 billion during 2007. Net inflows in wrap accounts decreased to $3.7 billion in 2008 from $11.7 billion in 2007. Total managed assets decreased $104.3 billion, or 28%, primarily due to market depreciation and net outflows in Domestic and International funds and a $28.6 billion decrease in International managed assets in 2008 due to the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by an increase in assets of $12.8 billion related to our acquisition of Seligman. Distribution fees decreased $197 million, or 11%, to $1.6 billion in 2008 compared to $1.8 billion in 2007 primarily due to the impact of market depreciation on asset based fees and decreased sales volume due to a shift in client behavior away from traditional investment activity. Net investment income decreased $1.2 billion, or 59%, to $817 million in 2008 compared to $2.0 billion in 2007. Included in net investment income for 2008 were $757 million of net realized investment losses on Available for Sale securities, primarily consisting of other than temporary impairments, compared to net realized investment gains on Available for Sale securities of $44 million in 2007. Also contributing to the decrease in net investment income was a loss of $88 million on trading securities in 2008 compared to a gain of $3 million in 2007 and a $224 million decrease in investment income earned on fixed maturity securities primarily from declining average balances in fixed annuities and increased holdings of cash and cash equivalents. Investment income on fixed maturities was $1.6 billion in 2008 compared to $1.8 billion in 2007. Premiums increased $31 million, or 3%, to $1.0 billion in 2008 primarily due to a 6% year over year increase in auto and home policy counts and a 9% increase in traditional life insurance in force. Traditional life insurance in force increased $6.6 billion to $77.4 billion in 2008 compared to $70.8 billion in 2007. Other revenues increased $42 million, or 6%, to $766 million in 2008 compared to $724 million in 2007 primarily due to a $95 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system for products of RiverSource Life companies in the third quarter of 2008. Also, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we extinguished $43 million of our junior notes and recognized a gain of $19 million. Other revenues in 2008 included $36 million from the sale of certain operating assets. Other revenues in 2007 included $25 million of additional proceeds related to the sale of our defined contribution recordkeeping business in 2006 and $68 million from unwinding a variable interest entity. Banking and deposit interest expense decreased $70 million to $179 million in 2008 compared to $249 million in 2007 due to lower crediting rates accrued on certificates. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 65 Table of Contents Expenses Total expenses decreased $157 million, or 2%, to $7.3 billion in 2008 compared to $7.5 billion in 2007. Included in 2007 total expenses were $236 million of separation costs. Excluding separation costs from 2007, total expenses increased $79 million, or 1%, compared to the prior year. A $382 million increase in amortization of DAC was partially offset by decreases in all other expense lines. Distribution expenses decreased $99 million, or 5%, to $1.9 billion in 2008 compared to $2.0 billion in 2007 primarily due to the impact of lower cash sales on advisor compensation as reflected by a decrease in net revenues per advisor from $315,000 in 2007 to $267,000 in 2008 and a $104.3 billion decrease in total managed assets. Interest credited to fixed accounts decreased $57 million, or 7%, to $790 million in 2008 compared to $847 million in 2007 primarily driven by declining fixed annuity balances. The balances had been decreasing steadily throughout 2008 until the fourth quarter when we experienced positive flows into fixed annuities. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses decreased $54 million, or 5%, to $1.1 billion in 2008 compared to $1.2 billion in 2007. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2008 included an $89 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system in the third quarter of 2008 and a $101 million benefit related to the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges. Partially offsetting these benefits was a $41 million expense related to the markets impact on DSIC, a $69 million expense related to the equity markets impact on variable annuity guaranteed death and income benefits and increases in life, long term care and auto and home insurance benefits. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2007 included $12 million of expense related to updating valuation assumptions, $39 million of expense related to the unfavorable market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges and an immaterial market impact on DSIC. Amortization of DAC increased $382 million, or 69%, to $933 million in 2008 compared to $551 million in 2007. Amortization of DAC in 2008 included a $293 million expense from the markets impact on DAC, an $81 million expense from updating valuation assumptions and conversion to a new valuation system in the third quarter of 2008 and a $111 million expense related to higher estimated gross profits to amortize as a result of the reserve decrease, net of hedges, for variable annuity guaranteed living benefits. The market impact on DAC included $220 million resulting from managements action in the fourth quarter of 2008 to lower future profit expectations based on continued depreciation in contract values and historical equity market return patterns. In the prior year, DAC amortization included expense of $16 million related to updating valuation assumptions and benefits of $6 million from the markets impact on DAC and $17 million related to the DAC effect of variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges. Separation costs in 2007 were primarily associated with separating and reestablishing our technology platforms. All separation costs were incurred as of December 31, 2007. General and administrative expense decreased $90 million, or 4%, to $2.5 billion in 2008 compared to $2.6 billion in 2007 as a result of expense management initiatives and lower compensation related expenses primarily from lower Threadneedle hedge fund performance fees. General and administrative expense in 2008 included a $77 million expense related to changes in fair value of Lehman Brothers securities that we purchased from various 2a 7 money market mutual funds managed by RiverSource Investments, a $36 million expense for the cost of guaranteeing specific client holdings in an unaffiliated money market mutual fund, a $19 million expense related to acquisition integration and $60 million in restructuring charges. General and administrative expense in 2007 included expenses related to professional and consultant fees representing increased spending on investment initiatives, increased hedge fund performance compensation and an increase in technology related costs. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate increased to 78.4% for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to 20.0% for the year ended December 31, 2007, primarily due to a pretax loss in relation to a net tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to pretax income for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our effective tax rate for December 31, 2008 included $79 million in tax benefits related to changes in the status of current audits and closed audits, tax planning initiatives, and the finalization of prior year tax returns. Our effective tax rate for December 31, 2007 included a $16 million tax benefit related to the finalization of certain income tax audits and a $19 million tax benefit related to our plan to begin repatriating earnings of certain Threadneedle entities through dividends. On September 25, 2007, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 2007 61 in which it announced that it intends to issue regulations with respect to certain computational aspects of the DRD related to separate account assets held in connection with variable contracts of life insurance 66 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents companies. Revenue Ruling 2007 61 suspended a revenue ruling issued in August 2007 that purported to change accepted industry and IRS interpretations of the statutes governing these computational questions. Any regulations that the IRS ultimately proposes for issuance in this area will be subject to public notice and comment, at which time insurance companies and other members of the public will have the opportunity to raise legal and practical questions about the content, scope and application of such regulations. As a result, the ultimate timing and substance of any such regulations are unknown at this time, but they may result in the elimination of some or all of the separate account DRD tax benefit that the Company receives. Management believes that it is likely that any such regulations would apply prospectively only. Results of Operations by Segment Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 The following tables present summary financial information by segment and reconciliation to consolidated totals derived from Note 26 to our Consolidated Financial Statements: Years Ended December 31, 2008 Percent Share of Total 2007 Percent Share of Total (in millions, except percentages) Total net revenues Advice & Wealth Management $ 3,110 45 % $ 3,809 45 % Asset Management 1,289 19 1,762 21 Annuities 1,618 23 2,206 26 Protection 1,954 28 1,939 23 Corporate & Other (1 ) 24 Eliminations (1,054 ) (15 ) (1,234 ) (15 ) Total net revenues $ 6,916 100 % $ 8,506 100 % Total expenses Advice & Wealth Management $ 3,259 44 % $ 3,524 47 % Asset Management 1,266 17 1,463 20 Annuities 1,905 26 1,783 23 Protection 1,602 22 1,454 19 Corporate & Other 363 5 508 7 Eliminations (1,054 ) (14 ) (1,234 ) (16 ) Total expenses $ 7,341 100 % $ 7,498 100 % Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests Asset Management $ (54 ) 100 % $ (8 ) 100 % Pretax income (loss) attributable to Ameriprise Financial Advice & Wealth Management $ (149 ) 40 % $ 285 28 % Asset Management 77 (21 ) 307 30 Annuities (287 ) 77 423 42 Protection 352 (94 ) 485 48 Corporate & Other (364 ) 98 (484 ) (48 ) Pretax income (loss) attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ (371 ) 100 % $ 1,016 100 % ANNUAL REPORT 2009 67  Table of Contents Advice & Wealth Management Our Advice & Wealth Management segment provides financial planning and advice, as well as full service brokerage and banking services, primarily to retail clients, through our financial advisors. Our affiliated advisors utilize a diversified selection of both affiliated and non affiliated products to help clients meet their financial needs. The following table presents the results of operations of our Advice & Wealth Management segment: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,339 $ 1,350 $ (11 ) (1 )% Distribution fees 1,912 2,218 (306 ) (14 ) Net investment income (43 ) 395 (438 ) NM Other revenues 80 76 4 5 Total revenues 3,288 4,039 (751 ) (19 ) Banking and deposit interest expense 178 230 (52 ) (23 ) Total net revenues 3,110 3,809 (699 ) (18 ) Expenses Distribution expenses 2,121 2,349 (228 ) (10 ) General and administrative expense 1,138 1,175 (37 ) (3 ) Total expenses 3,259 3,524 (265 ) (8 ) Pretax income (loss) $ (149 ) $ 285 $ (434 ) NM NM Not Meaningful. Our Advice & Wealth Management segment pretax loss was $149 million in 2008 compared to pretax income of $285 million in 2007. Net revenues Net revenues were $3.1 billion in 2008 compared to $3.8 billion in 2007, a decrease of $699 million, or 18%, primarily driven by decreases in net investment income from realized investment losses and lower distribution fees. Management and financial advice fees decreased $11 million, or 1%, to $1.3 billion in 2008. The decrease was primarily due to a $21.1 billion decline in total wrap account assets as a result of the deterioration in the equity markets, as well as lower net inflows compared to the prior year, partially offset by a $2.0 billion increase in wrap account assets related to our acquisition of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc. Net inflows in wrap accounts decreased to $3.7 billion in 2008 from net inflows of $11.7 billion in 2007. Distribution fees decreased $306 million, or 14%, from $2.2 billion in 2007 to $1.9 billion in 2008 primarily due to market depreciation and decreased sales volume due to a shift in client behavior away from traditional investment activity. Net investment income decreased $438 million from $395 million in 2007 to a loss of $43 million in 2008, primarily due to net realized investment losses of $333 million on Available for Sale securities in 2008, primarily from other than temporary impairments. Investment income from fixed maturity securities and other investments decreased $99 million primarily due to lower yields on our investment portfolio as we increased our liquidity position. Banking and deposit interest expense decreased $52 million, or 23%, to $178 million in 2008 compared to $230 million in 2007. This decrease is due to lower crediting rates accrued on certificates. Expenses Total expenses decreased $265 million, or 8%, from $3.5 billion in 2007 to $3.3 billion in 2008 primarily due to a $228 million decrease in distribution expenses resulting from the impact of lower asset levels and cash sales on advisor compensation as reflected by a decrease 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents in net revenues per advisor from $315,000 in 2007 to $267,000 in 2008. General and administrative expense decreased $37 million, or 3%, from the prior year primarily due to our expense reduction initiatives in 2008, partially offset by acquisition integration costs. Asset Management Our Asset Management segment provides investment advice and investment products to retail and institutional clients. The following table presents the results of operations of our Asset Management segment: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,077 $ 1,362 $ (285 ) (21 )% Distribution fees 247 322 (75 ) (23 ) Net investment income (13 ) 48 (61 ) NM Other revenues (15 ) 50 (65 ) NM Total revenues 1,296 1,782 (486 ) (27 ) Banking and deposit interest expense 7 20 (13 ) (65 ) Total net revenues 1,289 1,762 (473 ) (27 ) Expenses Distribution expenses 417 464 (47 ) (10 ) Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 24 33 (9 ) (27 ) General and administrative expense 825 966 (141 ) (15 ) Total expenses 1,266 1,463 (197 ) (13 ) Pretax income 23 299 (276 ) (92 ) Less: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (54 ) (8 ) (46 ) NM Pretax income attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ 77 $ 307 $ (230 ) (75 )% NM Not Meaningful. Our Asset Management segment pretax income attributable to Ameriprise Financial was $77 million in 2008, down $230 million, or 75%, from $307 million in 2007. Net revenues Net revenues decreased $473 million, or 27%, in 2008 to $1.3 billion compared to net revenues of $1.8 billion in 2007. Management and financial advice fees decreased $285 million, or 21%, to $1.1 billion compared to $1.4 billion in 2007 primarily due to a decrease in total managed assets excluding wrap account assets of $83.2 billion during 2008, negative market impacts and lower Threadneedle hedge fund performance fees. Domestic managed assets were $127.9 billion in 2008 compared to $156.3 billion in 2007. The decrease in Domestic managed assets of $28.4 billion was due to market depreciation of $28.8 billion and net outflows of $12.9 billion, partially offset by a $12.8 billion increase in managed assets due to the acquisition of Seligman in the fourth quarter of 2008. International managed assets were $74.2 billion in 2008 compared to $134.4 billion in 2007. The decrease in International managed assets of $60.2 billion was due to a decrease of $28.6 billion related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, net outflows of $15.8 billion and market depreciation of $19.8 billion. Distribution fees decreased $75 million, or 23%, to $247 million in 2008 compared to $322 million in 2007 primarily due to decreased mutual fund sales volume and lower 12b 1 fees driven by flows and negative market impacts. Net investment income decreased $61 million from $48 million in 2007 to a net investment loss of $13 million in 2008 primarily due to losses related to changes in the fair value of seed money investments driven by the declining market, as well as the deconsolidation of a collateralized debt obligation ("CDO") in the fourth quarter of 2007, which was offset in banking and deposit interest expense. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 69 Table of Contents Other revenues decreased $65 million from $50 million in 2007 to a loss of $15 million in 2008 primarily due to decreases in revenue related to certain consolidated limited partnerships. Other revenues in 2008 included $36 million from the sale of certain operating assets. Other revenues in 2007 included $25 million of additional proceeds related to the sale of our defined contribution recordkeeping business in 2006, as well as an $8 million gain from the sale of certain Threadneedle limited partnerships. Expenses Total expenses decreased $197 million, or 13%, primarily due to a $141 million decrease in general and administrative expense driven by expense management initiatives and lower incentive compensation accruals. Distribution expenses decreased $47 million related to decreased mutual fund sales volume. Annuities Our Annuities segment provides variable and fixed annuity products of RiverSource Life companies to our retail clients primarily through our Advice & Wealth Management segment and to the retail clients of unaffiliated advisors through third party distribution. The following table presents the results of operations of our Annuities segment: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 478 $ 510 $ (32 ) (6 )% Distribution fees 275 267 8 3 Net investment income 652 1,196 (544 ) (45 ) Premiums 85 95 (10 ) (11 ) Other revenues 128 138 (10 ) (7 ) Total revenues 1,618 2,206 (588 ) (27 ) Banking and deposit interest expense Total net revenues 1,618 2,206 (588 ) (27 ) Expenses Distribution expenses 207 194 13 7 Interest credited to fixed accounts 646 706 (60 ) (8 ) Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 269 329 (60 ) (18 ) Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 576 318 258 81 General and administrative expense 207 236 (29 ) (12 ) Total expenses 1,905 1,783 122 7 Pretax income (loss) $ (287 ) $ 423 $ (710 ) NM NM Not Meaningful. Our Annuities segment pretax loss was $287 million in 2008, down $710 million from pretax income of $423 million in 2007. Net revenues Net revenues decreased $588 million to $1.6 billion in 2008, compared to $2.2 billion in 2007, primarily driven by a $544 million decrease in net investment income. Management and financial advice fees decreased $32 million to $478 million driven by lower net flows and market declines. Variable annuities had net inflows of $2.7 billion in 2008 compared to net inflows of $4.9 billion in 2007. Net investment income decreased $544 million, or 45%, to $652 million in 2008 compared to $1.2 billion in 2007 primarily due to net realized investment losses on Available for Sale securities of $350 million, which primarily consisted of other than temporary impairments, compared to net realized investment gains of $33 million in 2007. Also contributing to lower net investment income were 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents lower yields on our investment portfolio as we increased our liquidity position. Investment income on fixed maturity securities decreased $159 million to $985 million compared to investment income of $1.1 billion in 2007. Premiums declined $10 million to $85 million in 2008 primarily due to lower sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies. Other revenues decreased $10 million to $128 million in 2008 primarily due to a gain of $49 million in 2007 related to the deconsolidation of a CDO, partially offset by an increase in our guaranteed benefit rider fees on variable annuities driven by volume increases in 2008. Expenses Total expenses increased $122 million, or 7%, to $1.9 billion in 2008, primarily due to an increase in amortization of DAC partially offset by decreases in interest credited to fixed accounts, benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses and general and administrative expense. Distribution expenses increased $13 million to $207 million in 2008 primarily due to capitalizing less deferrals due to a product mix shift, and therefore expensing more costs. Interest credited to fixed accounts decreased $60 million, or 8%, to $646 million in 2008 primarily driven by declining fixed annuity balances, which were $12.2 billion as of December 31, 2008 compared to $12.5 billion as of December 31, 2007. The balances had been decreasing steadily throughout 2008 until the fourth quarter when we experienced positive flows into fixed annuities. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses decreased $60 million, or 18%, to $269 million in 2008 compared to $329 million in 2007. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2008 included a $46 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system in the third quarter of 2008 and a benefit of $101 million related to the unfavorable market impact on variable annuity living benefits, net of hedges, partially offset by an expense of $41 million related to the markets impact on DSIC and a $69 million expense related to the equity markets impact on variable annuity guaranteed death and income benefits. Expenses related to changes in the fair value of variable annuity guaranteed living benefit riders, net of hedges were comprised of a $1.6 billion increase in hedge assets partially offset by a $1.5 billion increase in reserves. Prior year benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses included $36 million related to the unfavorable market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges and $2 million from updating valuation assumptions. Amortization of DAC increased $258 million, or 81%, to $576 million in 2008 primarily due to the market and the effect on DAC amortization from hedged variable annuity products. In response to the accelerated market deterioration in the fourth quarter of 2008, management took action in the fourth quarter of 2008 to lower future variable annuity profit expectations based on continued depreciation in contract values and historical equity market return patterns. General and administrative expense decreased $29 million, or 12%, to $207 million in 2008 compared to $236 million in 2007 primarily due to expense control initiatives. Protection Our Protection segment offers a variety of protection products to address the identified protection and risk management needs of our retail clients including life, disability income and property casualty insurance. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 71 Table of Contents The following table presents the results of operations of our Protection segment: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 56 $ 68 $ (12 ) (18 )% Distribution fees 106 102 4 4 Net investment income 252 361 (109 ) (30 ) Premiums 994 956 38 4 Other revenues 547 453 94 21 Total revenues 1,955 1,940 15 1 Banking and deposit interest expense 1 1 Total net revenues 1,954 1,939 15 1 Expenses Distribution expenses 18 16 2 13 Interest credited to fixed accounts 144 141 3 2 Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 856 850 6 1 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 333 200 133 67 General and administrative expense 251 247 4 2 Total expenses 1,602 1,454 148 10 Pretax income $ 352 $ 485 $ (133 ) (27 )% Our Protection segment pretax income was $352 million for 2008, down $133 million, or 27%, from $485 million in 2007. Net revenues Net revenues increased $15 million, or 1%, from the prior year. Management and financial advice fees decreased $12 million, or 18%, to $56 million primarily driven by lower equity markets. Net investment income decreased $109 million, or 30%, to $252 million in 2008 compared to $361 million in 2007 primarily due to net realized investment losses on Available for Sale securities of $92 million in 2008, primarily due to other than temporary impairments, compared to net realized investment gains of $7 million in 2007. Also contributing to lower net investment income were lower yields on our investment portfolio as we increased our liquidity position. Investment income on fixed maturity securities decreased $18 million to $307 million compared to investment income of $325 million in 2007. Premiums increased $38 million, or 4%, from the prior year, primarily due to a 6% increase in Auto and Home policy counts and an increase of 9% in traditional life insurance in force. Traditional life insurance in force was $77.4 billion as of year end 2008, compared to $70.8 billion as of year end 2007. Other revenues increased $94 million, or 21%, to $547 million in 2008 primarily due to a $95 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system in the third quarter of 2008. Expenses Total expenses increased $148 million, or 10%, to $1.6 billion for 2008 compared to $1.5 billion for 2007, primarily due to a $133 million increase in amortization of DAC. DAC amortization in 2008 included a $90 million expense from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system in the third quarter of 2008, as well as the markets unfavorable impact on DAC. In response to the accelerated market deterioration in the fourth quarter of 2008, management took action to lower future variable universal life profit expectations based on continued depreciation in contract values and historical equity market return patterns. DAC amortization in 2007 included a $20 million expense from updating valuation assumptions and an immaterial market impact. 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents Corporate & Other The following table presents the results of operations of our Corporate & Other segment: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ $ 1 $ (1 ) NM Net investment income (25 ) 22 (47 ) NM Other revenues 26 7 19 NM Total revenues 1 30 (29 ) (97 )% Banking and deposit interest expense 2 6 (4 ) (67 ) Total net revenues (1 ) 24 (25 ) NM Expenses Distribution expenses 1 1 Interest and debt expense 109 112 (3 ) (3 ) Separation costs 236 (236 ) NM General and administrative expense 253 159 94 59 Total expenses 363 508 (145 ) (29 ) Pretax loss $ (364 ) $ (484 ) $ 120 25 % NM Not Meaningful. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax loss in 2008 was $364 million, an improvement of $120 million compared to a pretax loss of $484 million in 2007. The improvement was primarily due to a decrease in separation costs of $236 million, as the separation from American Express was completed in 2007. Other revenues increased $19 million due to recognizing a $19 million gain from extinguishing $43 million of our junior notes in the fourth quarter of 2008. These positive impacts were offset by a $47 million decrease in net investment income and a $94 million increase in general and administrative expense. The decrease in net investment income was primarily due to lower investment income on fixed maturities and lower income on seed money investments and other investments. The increase in general and administrative expense was driven by a $77 million expense related to changes in fair value of Lehman Brothers securities that we purchased from various 2a 7 money market mutual funds managed by RiverSource Investments, expense of $36 million for the cost of guaranteeing specific client holdings in an unaffiliated money market mutual fund and $60 million in restructuring charges. Partially offsetting these increases in general and administrative expense were decreases related to our expense reduction initiatives and lower incentive compensation accruals. Fair Value Measurements We report certain assets and liabilities at fair value; specifically, separate account assets, derivatives, embedded derivatives, properties held by our consolidated property funds, and most investments and cash equivalents. Fair value assumes the exchange of assets or liabilities occurs in orderly transactions. Companies are not permitted to use market prices that are the result of a forced liquidation or distressed sale. We include actual market prices, or observable inputs, in our fair value measurements to the extent available. Broker quotes are obtained when quotes from pricing services are not available. We validate prices obtained from third parties through a variety of means such as: price variance analysis, subsequent sales testing, stale price review, price comparison across pricing vendors and due diligence reviews of vendors. Inactive Markets Through our own experience transacting in the marketplace and through discussions with our pricing vendors, we believe that the market for non agency residential mortgage backed securities is inactive. Indicators of inactive markets include: pricing services reliance on brokers or discounted cash flow analyses to provide prices, an increase in the disparity between prices provided by different pricing services for the same security, unreasonably large bid offer spreads and a significant decrease in the volume of trades relative to historical levels. In certain cases, this market inactivity has resulted in our applying valuation techniques that rely more on an income approach ANNUAL REPORT 2009 73 Table of Contents (discounted cash flows using market rates) than on a market approach (prices from pricing services). We consider market observable yields for other asset classes we consider to be of similar risk which includes nonperformance and liquidity for individual securities to set the discount rate for applying the income approach to certain non agency residential mortgage backed securities. The discount rates used for these securities at December 31, 2009 ranged from 11% to 22%. Non Agency Residential Mortgage Backed Securities Backed by Sub prime, Alt A or Prime Collateral Sub prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers with weak credit profiles. Alt A mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers who have credit ratings above sub prime but may not conform to government sponsored standards. Prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers with good credit profiles. We have exposure to these types of loans predominantly through mortgage backed and asset backed securities. The slow down in the U.S. housing market, combined with relaxed underwriting standards by some originators, has led to higher delinquency and loss rates for some of these investments. Market conditions have increased the likelihood of other than temporary impairments for certain non agency residential mortgage backed securities. As a part of our risk management process, an internal rating system is used in conjunction with market data as the basis of analysis to assess the likelihood that we will not receive all contractual principal and interest payments for these investments. For the investments that are more at risk for impairment, we perform our own assessment of projected cash flows incorporating assumptions about default rates, prepayment speeds, loss severity, and geographic concentrations to determine if an other than temporary impairment should be recognized. 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents The following table presents, as of December 31, 2009, our non agency residential mortgage backed and asset backed securities backed by sub prime, Alt A or prime mortgage loans by credit rating and vintage year: AAA AA A BBB BB & Below Total Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value (in millions) Sub prime 2003 & prior $ 2 $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2 $ 1 2004 14 14 7 2 7 7 10 6 38 29 2005 55 53 51 46 17 17 9 8 18 11 150 135 2006 9 8 6 6 19 18 53 34 87 66 2007 6 6 6 1 12 7 2008 7 6 7 6 Re Remic(1) 42 42 19 19 61 61 Total Sub prime $ 113 $ 110 $ 74 $ 62 $ 36 $ 36 $ 47 $ 45 $ 87 $ 52 $ 357 $ 305 Alt A 2003 & prior $ 21 $ 21 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 21 $ 21 2004 13 12 62 54 26 19 11 5 17 8 129 98 2005 5 3 59 36 32 17 13 8 258 169 367 233 2006 3 3 187 123 190 126 2007 221 120 221 120 2008 Total Alt A $ 39 $ 36 $ 124 $ 93 $ 58 $ 36 $ 24 $ 13 $ 683 $ 420 $ 928 $ 598 Prime 2003 & prior $ 282 $ 273 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 282 $ 273 2004 52 52 46 39 34 31 19 16 19 8 170 146 2005 17 19 59 59 80 78 72 58 136 79 364 293 2006 21 22 6 2 35 34 4 3 66 61 2007 43 44 15 11 58 55 2008 Re Remic(1) 2,443 2,534 2,443 2,534 Total Prime $ 2,858 $ 2,944 $ 105 $ 98 $ 120 $ 111 $ 126 $ 108 $ 174 $ 101 $ 3,383 $ 3,362 Grand Total $ 3,010 $ 3,090 $ 303 $ 253 $ 214 $ 183 $ 197 $ 166 $ 944 $ 573 $ 4,668 $ 4,265 (1)Re Remics of mortgage backed securities are prior vintages with cash flows structured into senior and subordinated bonds. Credit enhancement on senior bonds is increased through the Re Remic process. Total exposure to subordinate tranches was nil as of December 31, 2009. Fair Value of Liabilities and Nonperformance Risk Companies are required to measure the fair value of liabilities at the price that would be received to transfer the liability to a market participant (an exit price). Since there is not a market for our obligations of our variable annuity riders, we consider the assumptions participants in a hypothetical market would make to reflect an exit price. As a result, we adjust the valuation of variable annuity riders by updating certain contractholder assumptions, adding explicit margins to provide for profit, risk and expenses, and adjusting the rates used to discount expected cash flows to reflect a current market estimate of our nonperformance risk. The nonperformance risk adjustment is based on broker quotes for credit default swaps that are adjusted to estimate the risk of our life insurance company subsidiaries not fulfilling these liabilities. Consistent with general market conditions, this estimate resulted in a spread over the LIBOR swap curve as of December 31, 2009. As our estimate of this spread widens or tightens, the liability will decrease or increase. If this nonperformance credit spread moves to a zero spread over the LIBOR swap curve, the reduction to net income would be approximately $28 million, net of DAC and DSIC amortization and income taxes, based on December 31, 2009 credit spreads. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 75  Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We maintained substantial liquidity during 2009. At December 31, 2009, we had $3.1 billion in cash and cash equivalents compared to $6.2 billion at December 31, 2008. Excluding collateral received from derivative counterparties, cash and cash equivalents were $3.0 billion and $4.4 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We have additional liquidity available through an unsecured revolving credit facility for $750 million that expires in September 2010, which we anticipate re establishing before expiration. Under the terms of the underlying credit agreement, we can increase this facility to $1.0 billion. Available borrowings under this facility are reduced by any outstanding letters of credit. We have had no borrowings under this credit facility and had $2 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2009. In June 2009, we issued $200 million of 7.75% senior notes due 2039 and $300 million of 7.30% senior notes due 2019 (collectively, "senior notes"). In July 2009, we used a portion of the proceeds from the issuance of our senior notes to repurchase $450 million aggregate principal amount of our 5.35% senior notes due 2010 pursuant to a cash tender offer. In addition, in June 2009, we received cash of $869 million from the issuance and sale of 36 million shares of our common stock. In September 2009, we announced the all cash acquisition of the long term asset management business of Columbia Management, which is expected to close in the spring of 2010. The total consideration to be paid will be between $900 million and $1.2 billion, which is expected to be funded through the use of cash on hand. In 2009, our subsidiaries, Ameriprise Bank, FSB and RiverSource Life, became members of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines ("FHLB of Des Moines"), which provides these subsidiaries with access to collateralized borrowings. As of December 31, 2009, we had no borrowings from the FHLB of Des Moines. We believe cash flows from operating activities, available cash balances and our availability of revolver borrowings will be sufficient to fund our operating liquidity needs. Various ratings organizations publish financial strength ratings, which measure an insurance companys ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, and credit ratings. The following table summarizes the ratings for Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and certain of its insurance subsidiaries as of the date of this filing: A.M. Best Company, Inc. Standard & Poors Ratings Services Moodys Investors Service Fitch Ratings Ltd. Financial Strength Ratings RiverSource Life A+ AA Aa3 AA IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company A N/R N/R N/R Credit Ratings Ameriprise Financial, Inc. a A A3 A As of December 31, 2009, A.M. Best Company, Inc., Standard & Poors Ratings Services, Moodys Investors Service and Fitch Ratings Ltd. retained negative outlooks on Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and RiverSource Life and the life insurance industry as a whole. For information on how changes in our financial strength or credit ratings could affect our financial condition and results of operations, see the "Risk Factors" discussion included in Part 1, Item 1A in our Annual Report on Form 10 K. Dividends from Subsidiaries Ameriprise Financial is primarily a parent holding company for the operations carried out by our wholly owned subsidiaries. Because of our holding company structure, our ability to meet our cash requirements, including the payment of dividends on our common stock, substantially depends upon the receipt of dividends or return of capital from our subsidiaries, particularly our life insurance subsidiary, RiverSource Life, our face amount certificate subsidiary, Ameriprise Certificate Company ("ACC"), AMPF Holding Corporation, which is the parent company of our retail introducing broker dealer subsidiary, Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. ("AFSI") and our clearing broker dealer subsidiary, American Enterprise Investment Services, Inc. ("AEIS"), our auto and home insurance subsidiary, IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company ("IDS Property Casualty"), doing business as Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance, Threadneedle, RiverSource Service Corporation and our investment advisory company, RiverSource Investments, LLC. The payment of dividends by many of our subsidiaries is restricted and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital requirements. 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents Actual capital and regulatory capital requirements for our wholly owned subsidiaries subject to regulatory capital requirements were as follows: December 31, Actual Capital Regulatory Capital Requirements 2009 2008 2009 2008 (in millions) RiverSource Life(1)(2) $ 3,450 $ 2,722 $ 803 $ 551 RiverSource Life of NY(1)(2) 286 229 44 58 IDS Property Casualty(1)(3) 405 436 133 124 Ameriprise Insurance Company(1)(3) 46 47 2 2 ACC(4)(5) 293 243 231 264 Threadneedle(6) 201 227 155 140 Ameriprise Bank, FSB(7) 255 113 231 123 AFSI(3)(4) 79 132 1 # Ameriprise Captive Insurance Company(3) 28 20 12 9 Ameriprise Trust Company(3) 36 35 32 28 AEIS(3)(4) 133 74 29 4 Securities America, Inc.(3)(4) 15 17 # # RiverSource Distributors, Inc.(3)(4) 41 41 # # RiverSource Fund Distributors, Inc.(3)(4) 13 7 # 1 RiverSource Services, Inc.(8) 1 # Ameriprise Advisor Services, Inc.(3)(4)(9) 4 22 # 5 #Amounts are less than $1 million. (1)Actual capital is determined on a statutory basis. (2)Regulatory capital requirement is based on the statutory risk based capital filing. (3)Regulatory capital requirement is based on the applicable regulatory requirement, calculated as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. (4)Actual capital is determined on an adjusted GAAP basis. (5)ACC is required to hold capital in compliance with the Minnesota Department of Commerce and SEC capital requirements. As of December 31, 2008, ACCs capital dropped to 4.61% and 4.97% per the Minnesota Department of Commerce and SEC capital requirements, respectively. Ameriprise Financial promptly provided additional capital to ACC in January 2009 to bring capital back above the 5% requirement. Ameriprise Financial and ACC entered into a Capital Support Agreement on March 2, 2009, pursuant to which Ameriprise Financial agrees to commit such capital to ACC as is necessary to satisfy applicable minimum capital requirements, up to a maximum commitment of $115 million. (6)Actual capital and regulatory capital requirements are determined in accordance with U.K. regulatory legislation. The actual capital and the regulatory capital requirement for December 31, 2009 represent managements preliminary internal assessment of the risk based requirement specified by FSA regulations. (7)Ameriprise Bank is required to hold capital in compliance with the Office of Thrift Supervision ("OTS") regulations and policies, which currently require a Tier 1 (core) capital ratio of not less than 8%. As of December 31, 2008, Ameriprise Banks Tier 1 core capital dropped to 7.36%. Ameriprise Financial promptly provided additional capital to Ameriprise Bank in January 2009 to bring the Tier 1 core capital back above the 8% de novo requirement. (8)De registered as of June 30, 2009. (9)Ameriprise Advisor Services, Inc. has submitted an application to the SEC and FINRA to withdraw its registration as a broker dealer, which is pending review and approval of our regulators. In addition to the particular regulations restricting dividend payments and establishing subsidiary capitalization requirements, we take into account the overall health of the business, capital levels and risk management considerations in determining a dividend strategy for payments to our company from our subsidiaries, and in deciding to use cash to make capital contributions to our subsidiaries. In 2009, the parent holding company received cash dividends from its subsidiaries of $264 million and contributed cash to its subsidiaries of $233 million. In 2008, the parent holding company received cash dividends from its subsidiaries of $1.1 billion and contributed cash to its subsidiaries of $638 million, of which $441 million was in support of acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2007, subsidiaries paid cash dividends of $1.6 billion and received $40 million in contributions. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 77 Table of Contents The following table presents the dividends that could have been paid within the limitations of the applicable regulatory authorities as further described below, excluding extraordinary dividends: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Dividend capacity RiverSource Life(1) $ 173 $ 523 $ 469 AEIS(4) 154 74 159 ACC(2) 87 79 RiverSource Investments, LLC 89 164 279 RiverSource Service Corporation 3 16 26 Threadneedle 95 111 134 Ameriprise Trust Company 4 11 22 Securities America Financial Corporation 15 17 AFSI(4) 78 272 201 IDS Property Casualty(3) 42 42 52 Ameriprise Captive Insurance Company 16 11 9 RiverSource Distributors, Inc 41 RiverSource Fund Distributors, Inc 13 Total dividend capacity $ 810 $ 1,241 $ 1,430 (1)RiverSource Life dividends in excess of statutory unassigned funds require advance notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce, RiverSource Lifes primary regulator, and are subject to potential disapproval. In addition, dividends whose fair market value, together with that of other dividends or distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater of (1) the previous years statutory net gain from operations or (2) 10% of the previous year end statutory capital and surplus are referred to as "extraordinary dividends." Extraordinary dividends also require advance notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce, and are subject to potential disapproval. For dividends exceeding these thresholds, RiverSource Life provided notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce and received responses indicating that it did not object to the payment of these dividends. (2)The dividend capacity for ACC is based on capital held in excess of regulatory requirements. (3)The dividend capacity for IDS Property Casualty is based on the lesser of (1) 10% of the previous year end capital and surplus or (2) the greater of (a) net income (excluding realized gains) of the previous year or (b) the aggregate net income of the previous three years excluding realized gains less any dividends paid within the first two years of the three year period. Dividends that, together with the amount of other distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceed this statutory limitation are referred to as "extraordinary dividends" and require advance notice to the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Wisconsin, the primary state regulator of IDS Property Casualty, and are subject to potential disapproval. The portion of dividends paid by IDS Property Casualty in 2007 in excess of the dividend capacity set forth in the table above were extraordinary dividends and received approval from the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Wisconsin. (4)In 2009, AEIS and AFSI became subsidiaries of AMPF Holding Corporation. For AFSI and AEIS, the dividend capacity is based on an internal model used to determine the availability of dividends, while maintaining net capital at a level sufficiently in excess of minimum levels defined by Securities and Exchange Commission rules. 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents The following table presents the cash dividends paid to the parent holding company, net of cash capital contributions made by the parent holding company for the following subsidiaries: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Cash dividends paid/(contributions made), net RiverSource Life $ $ 775 $ 900 Ameriprise Bank, FSB (85 ) (82 ) AEIS(1) 10 108 ACC 25 (115 ) 70 RiverSource Investments, LLC (336 ) 100 RiverSource Service Corporation 3 15 22 Threadneedle 49 52 50 Ameriprise Trust Company 16 12 Securities America Financial Corporation (25 ) (17 ) AFSI(1) 140 100 IDS Property Casualty 85 50 185 Ameriprise Advisor Capital, LLC (10 ) AMPF Holding Corporation (38 ) Other 2 1 (12 ) Total $ 31 $ 501 $ 1,518 (1)In 2009, AEIS and AFSI became subsidiaries of AMPF Holding Corporation. Share Repurchases, Debt Repurchases and Dividends Paid to Shareholders We have a share repurchase program in place to return excess capital to shareholders. Since September 2008 through the date of this report, we have suspended our stock repurchase program. We may resume activity under our stock repurchase program and begin repurchasing shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions from time to time without notice. We reserve the right to suspend any such repurchases and to resume later repurchasing at any time, and expressly disclaim any obligation to maintain or lift any such suspension. At December 31, 2009, there was approximately $1.3 billion remaining to repurchase shares under authorizations approved by our Board of Directors. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Ameriprise Financial 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan, we reacquired 0.8 million shares of our common stock in 2009 through the surrender of restricted shares upon vesting and paid in the aggregate $11 million related to the holders income tax obligations on the vesting date. In 2009, we extinguished $460 million principal amount of our 5.35% senior notes due 2010 and $135 million principal amount of our junior notes. In 2008, we extinguished $43 million of our junior notes. In the future, we may from time to time seek to retire or purchase additional outstanding debt through cash purchases in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, without prior notice. Such repurchases, if any, will depend upon market conditions and other factors. The amounts involved could be material. We paid regular quarterly cash dividends to our shareholders totaling $164 million, $143 million and $133 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. On February 3, 2010, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.17 per common share. The dividend will be paid on February 26, 2010 to our shareholders of record at the close of business on February 12, 2010. Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $1.3 billion compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008, a decrease of $3.2 billion. In 2009, operating cash was reduced by $1.9 billion due to a decrease in net cash collateral held related to derivative instruments, compared to an increase in operating cash of $1.6 billion in 2008. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in cash for the year ended December 31, 2009 due to repayments of funds advanced to clients in 2008 to fund their liquidity needs following the freeze of funds in the Reserve Primary Fund and the Reserve ANNUAL REPORT 2009 79 Table of Contents Government Fund. The positive impacts to operating cash flows in 2009 from lower performance based compensation payments and a net decrease in income taxes paid compared to the prior year were offset by the negative impacts of integration and restructuring payments in 2009. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $1.9 billion compared to $766 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, an increase of $1.2 billion. The increase was driven by a $1.6 billion increase in net cash collateral held related to derivative instruments at December 31, 2008. This increase was partially offset by the impact of advancing approximately $300 million to our clients to fund their critical liquidity needs following the freeze of funds in the Reserve Primary Fund and the Reserve Government Fund, as well as the costs associated with supporting RiverSource 2a 7 money market funds and a net increase in income taxes paid compared to the prior year. Reduced cash inflows related to lower fee revenues were offset by lower cash outflows due to lower expenses, including the completion of separation costs in 2007 and a $100 million settlement paid in 2007. Investing Activities Our investing activities primarily relate to our Available for Sale investment portfolio. Further, this activity is significantly affected by the net flows of our investment certificate, fixed annuity and universal life products reflected in financing activities. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $6.4 billion compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, a decrease of $6.4 billion. Cash used for purchases of Available for Sale securities increased $14.2 billion and proceeds from sales and maturities, sinking fund payments and calls of Available for Sale securities increased $7.1 billion compared to the prior year, resulting in a $7.1 billion net decrease to cash. In 2008, we paid cash of $563 million for acquisitions, net of cash acquired. Net cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $15 million compared to $4.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007, a decrease of $4.6 billion. Cash used for purchases of Available for Sale securities increased $1.9 billion and proceeds from sales and maturities, sinking fund payments and calls of Available for Sale securities decreased $2.2 billion compared to the prior year, resulting in a $4.1 billion net decrease to cash. We also paid cash of $563 million for acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2008, net of cash acquired. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $4.5 billion compared to $506 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase in cash of $4.0 billion. Cash received from the issuance of our senior notes and common stock in June 2009, net of issuance costs, was $491 million and $869 million, respectively. Net cash received from policyholder and contractholder account values increased $3.1 billion compared to the prior year primarily due to higher net flows of fixed annuities. Cash used for the repurchase of our common stock decreased $627 million compared to the prior year due to the suspension of our repurchase program. These increases to cash were offset by $550 million of cash used to extinguish $135 million of our junior notes and $460 million of our 5.35% senior notes due 2010 in 2009. The net cash decrease of $1.9 billion related to investment certificates and banking time deposits was primarily due to net outflows in investment certificates. Cash provided by other banking deposits increased $1.2 billion due to higher Ameriprise Bank, FSB activity in 2009. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $506 million compared to net cash used in financing activities of $4.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007, an increase in cash of $4.8 billion. Cash proceeds from additions of investment certificates and banking time deposits increased $1.9 billion, primarily due to an increase in sales of investment certificates as a result of the market environment, as well as a sales promotion we began in April 2008. Net cash from policyholder and contractholder account values increased $2.9 billion from the prior year primarily due to $2.2 billion of lower net outflows in fixed annuities as a result of the market environment and sales initiatives. Cash used for the repurchase of our common stock decreased $351 million compared to the prior year due to fewer shares repurchased in 2008 at a lower average price. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we temporarily suspended our stock repurchase program in light of the market environment. Cash provided by other banking deposits decreased $520 million due to lower Ameriprise Bank, FSB activity in 2008. 80 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents Contractual Commitments The contractual obligations identified in the table below include both our on and off balance sheet transactions that represent material expected or contractually committed future obligations. Payments due by period as of December 31, 2009 were as follows: Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and Thereafter (in millions) Balance Sheet: Debt(1) $ 2,249 $ 340 $ $ 381 $ 1,528 Insurance and annuities(2) 47,922 3,025 5,668 6,138 33,091 Investment certificates(3) 4,082 3,795 287 Deferred premium options(4) 1,201 189 341 261 410 Off Balance Sheet: Lease obligations 618 91 153 121 253 Purchase obligations(5) 1,121 1,057 53 11 Interest on debt(6) 2,358 136 240 225 1,757 Total $ 59,551 $ 8,633 $ 6,742 $ 7,137 $ 37,039 (1)See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our debt. (2)These scheduled payments are represented by reserves of approximately $30.4 billion at December 31, 2009 and are based on interest credited, mortality, morbidity, lapse, surrender and premium payment assumptions. Actual payment obligations may differ if experience varies from these assumptions. Separate account liabilities have been excluded as associated contractual obligations would be met by separate account assets. (3)The payments due by year are based on contractual term maturities. However, contractholders have the right to redeem the investment certificates earlier and at their discretion subject to surrender charges, if any. Redemptions are most likely to occur in periods of substantial increases in interest rates. (4)The fair value of the deferred premium options included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2009. See Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our deferred premium options. (5)The purchase obligation amounts include expected spending by period under contracts that were in effect at December 31, 2009. Total termination payments associated with these purchase obligations were $68 million as of December 31, 2009. Payments for 2010 include $1.0 billion of estimated consideration to be paid for our pending acquisition of the long term asset management business of Columbia Management Group ("Columbia"). The total consideration to be paid will be between $900 million and $1.2 billion based on net flows at Columbia. The transaction is expected to close in the spring of 2010, subject to satisfaction of closing conditions that are generally present in similar acquisitions. (6)Interest on debt was estimated based on rates in effect as of December 31, 2009. In addition to the contractual commitments outlined in the table above, we periodically fund the employees defined benefit plans. We contributed $36 million and $21 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, to our pension plans. We expect to contribute $66 million to our pension plans in 2010 and $2 million to our defined benefit postretirement plans in 2010. See Note 19 for additional information. Total loan funding commitments, which are not included in the table above due to uncertainty with respect to timing of future cash flows, were $1.8 billion at December 31, 2009. For additional information relating to these contractual commitments, see Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements There have been no material changes in our off balance sheet arrangements. Forward Looking Statements This report contains forward looking statements that reflect managements plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those described in these forward looking statements. Examples of such forward looking statements include: statements of the Companys plans, intentions, expectations, objectives or goals, including those relating to asset flows, mass affluent and affluent client acquisition strategy, client retention, financial advisor retention, recruiting and enrollments, general and administrative costs; consolidated tax rate, and excess capital position; ANNUAL REPORT 2009 81 Table of Contents other statements about future economic performance, the performance of equity markets and interest rate variations and the economic performance of the United States and of global markets; and statements of assumptions underlying such statements. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "optimistic," "intend," "plan," "aim," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely," "forecast," "on pace," "project" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: changes in the valuations, liquidity and volatility in the interest rate, credit default, equity market, and foreign exchange environments; changes in the litigation and regulatory environment, including ongoing legal proceedings and regulatory actions, the frequency and extent of legal claims threatened or initiated by clients, other persons and regulators, and developments in regulation and legislation; investment management performance and consumer acceptance of the Companys products; effects of competition in the financial services industry and changes in product distribution mix and distribution channels; changes to the Companys reputation that may arise from employee or affiliated advisor misconduct, legal or regulatory actions, improper management of conflicts of interest or otherwise; the Companys capital structure, including indebtedness, limitations on subsidiaries to pay dividends, and the extent, manner, terms and timing of any share or debt repurchases management may effect as well as the opinions of rating agencies and other analysts and the reactions of market participants or the Companys regulators, advisors, distribution partners or customers in response to any change or prospect of change in any such opinion; changes to the availability of liquidity and the Companys credit capacity that may arise due to shifts in market conditions, the Companys credit ratings and the overall availability of credit; risks of default, capacity constraint or repricing by issuers or guarantors of investments the Company owns or by counterparties to hedge, derivative, insurance or reinsurance arrangements or by manufacturers of products the Company distributes, experience deviations from the Companys assumptions regarding such risks, the evaluations or the prospect of changes in evaluations of any such third parties published by rating agencies or other analysts, and the reactions of other market participants or the Companys regulators, advisors, distribution partners or customers in response to any such evaluation or prospect of changes in evaluation; experience deviations from the Companys assumptions regarding morbidity, mortality and persistency in certain annuity and insurance products, or from assumptions regarding market returns assumed in valuing DAC and DSIC or market volatility underlying our valuation and hedging of guaranteed living benefit annuity riders; changes in capital requirements that may be indicated, required or advised by regulators or rating agencies; the impacts of the Companys efforts to improve distribution economics and to grow third party distribution of its products; the ability to complete the acquisition opportunities the Company negotiates (including the transaction with Columbia Management); the Companys ability to realize the financial, operating and business fundamental benefits or to obtain regulatory approvals regarding integrations we plan for the acquisitions we have completed or have contracted to complete, as well as the amount and timing of integration expenses; the ability and timing to realize savings and other benefits from re engineering and tax planning; changes in the capital markets and competitive environments induced or resulting from the partial or total ownership or other support by central governments of certain financial services firms or financial assets; and 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents general economic and political factors, including consumer confidence in the economy, the ability and inclination of consumers generally to invest as well as their ability and inclination to invest in financial instruments and products other than cash and cash equivalents, the costs of products and services the Company consumes in the conduct of its business, and applicable legislation and regulation and changes therein, including tax laws, tax treaties, fiscal and central government treasury policy, and policies regarding the financial services industry and publicly held firms, and regulatory rulings and pronouncements. Management cautions the reader that the foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. There may also be other risks that management is unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Management undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward looking statements.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest rate, equity price, foreign currency and credit risk are the market risks to which we have material exposure. Equity price and interest rate fluctuations can have a significant impact on our results of operations, primarily due to the effects they have on the asset management and other asset based fees we earn, the spread income generated on our annuities, banking, and face amount certificate products and UL insurance products, the value of DAC and DSIC assets associated with variable annuity and variable UL products, the values of liabilities for guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuities and the values of derivatives held to hedge these benefits. The guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuities are guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ("GMWB"), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ("GMAB"), guaranteed minimum death benefits ("GMDB") and guaranteed minimum income benefits ("GMIB") options. Each of these guaranteed benefits guarantees payouts to the annuity holder under certain specific conditions regardless of the performance of the underlying investment assets. We continue to utilize a hedging program which attempts to match the sensitivity of the assets with the sensitivity of the liabilities. This approach works with the premise that matched sensitivities will produce a highly effective hedging result. This program can generally be described as a "Static 3 Greek" hedging program. This style of hedging focuses mainly on first order sensitivities of the assets and liabilities; Equity Market Level (Delta), Interest Rate Level (Rho) and Volatility (Vega). Additionally, various second order sensitivities are managed. We use various index options across the term structure, interest rate swaps and swaptions, total return swaps and futures to manage the risk exposures. The exposures are measured and monitored daily, and adjustments to the hedge portfolio are made as necessary. To evaluate interest rate and equity price risk we perform sensitivity testing which measures the impact on pretax income from the sources listed below for a 12 month period following a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates or a hypothetical 10% decline in equity prices. The interest rate risk test assumes a sudden 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve, with rates then staying at those levels for the next 12 months. The equity price risk test assumes a sudden 10% drop in equity prices, with equity prices then staying at those levels for the next 12 months. In estimating the values of variable annuity riders, equity indexed annuities, stock market certificates and the associated hedge assets, we assumed no change in implied market volatility despite the 10% drop in equity prices. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 83 Table of Contents The following table presents our estimate of the pretax impact of these hypothetical market moves, net of hedging, as of December 31, 2009: Equity Price Exposure to Pretax Income Equity Price Decline 10% Before Hedge Impact Hedge Impact Net Impact (in millions) Asset based management and distribution fees $ (130 ) $ $ (130 ) DAC and DSIC amortization(1) (136 ) (136 ) Variable annuity riders: GMDB and GMIB (34 ) 3 (31 ) GMWB (62 ) 76 14 GMAB (20 ) 26 6 DAC and DSIC amortization(2) N/A N/A (10 ) Total variable annuity riders (116 ) 105 (21 ) Equity indexed annuities 1 (1 ) Stock market certificates 4 (4 ) Total $ (377 ) $ 100 $ (287 ) Interest Rate Exposure to Pretax Income Interest Rate Increase 100 Basis Points Before Hedge Impact Hedge Impact Net Impact (in millions) Asset based management and distribution fees $ (18 ) $ $ (18 ) Variable annuity riders: GMWB 166 (230 ) (64 ) GMAB 33 (46 ) (13 ) DAC and DSIC amortization(2) N/A N/A 30 Total variable annuity riders 199 (276 ) (47 ) Fixed annuities, fixed portion of variable annuities and fixed insurance products (5 ) (5 ) Flexible savings and other fixed rate savings products (5 ) (5 ) Total $ 171 $ (276 ) $ (75 ) N/A Not Applicable. (1)Market impact on DAC and DSIC amortization resulting from lower projected profits. (2)Market impact on DAC and DSIC amortization related to variable annuity riders is modeled net of hedge impact. The above results compare to estimated negative impacts to pretax income of $312 million related to a 10% equity price decline and $48 million related to a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2008. The reduced equity impact in 2009 is a result of market dislocation in 2008 and changes to our valuation models. The discount rates and credit spreads we used in 2008 to value certain of our investments were negatively impacted by the market, which led to greater pretax loss projections related to our variable annuity riders, partially offset by a lower impact to our asset based management and distribution fees, primarily as a result of lower asset values. In evaluating equity price risk, the estimated impact on DAC and DSIC amortization resulting from lower projected profits as a result of the equity price decline is shown separately from the estimated impact on DAC and DSIC amortization resulting from changes in the values of GMWB and GMAB riders net of hedges. In estimating the impact on DAC and DSIC amortization resulting from lower projected profits, we have not changed our assumed equity asset growth rates. This is a significantly more conservative estimate than if we assumed management follows its mean reversion guideline and increased near term rates to recover the drop in equity values over a five year 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents period. See Critical Accounting Policies for additional discussion on our DAC and DSIC accounting policies. We make this same conservative assumption in estimating the impact from GMDB and GMIB riders. Net impacts shown in the above table from GMWB and GMAB riders result largely from differences between the liability valuation basis and the hedging basis. Liabilities are valued using fair value accounting principles, with key policyholder behavior assumptions loaded to provide risk margins and with discount rates increased to reflect a current market estimate of our risk of nonperformance specific to these liabilities. Management has elected to hedge based on best estimate policyholder assumptions and explicitly does not hedge nonperformance spread risk. Net impacts shown in the above table from GMDB and GMIB reflect the fact that these guaranteed benefits are primarily retained by us and not hedged. In the third quarter of 2009, we entered into a limited number of derivative contracts to economically hedge equity exposure related to GMDB provisions on variable annuity contracts written previously in 2009. Actual results could differ materially from those illustrated above as they are based on a number of estimates and assumptions. These include assuming that implied market volatility does not change when equity values fall by 10%, that management does not increase assumed equity asset growth rates to anticipate recovery of the drop in equity values when valuing DAC, DSIC and GMDB and GMIB liability values and that the 100 basis point increase in interest rates is a parallel shift of the yield curve. Furthermore, we have not tried to anticipate changes in client preferences for different types of assets or other changes in client behavior, nor have we tried to anticipate actions management might take to increase revenues or reduce expenses in these scenarios. The selection of a 100 basis point interest rate increase as well as a 10% equity price decline should not be construed as a prediction of future market events. Impacts of larger or smaller changes in interest rates or equity prices may not be proportional to those shown for a 100 basis point increase in interest rates or a 10% decline in equity prices. Asset Based Management and Distribution Fees We earn asset based management fees on our owned separate account assets and certain of our managed assets. At December 31, 2009, the value of these assets was $58.1 billion and $243.2 billion, respectively. We also earn distribution fees on our managed assets. These sources of revenue are subject to both interest rate and equity price risk since the value of these assets and the fees they earn fluctuate inversely with interest rates and directly with equity prices. We do not currently hedge the interest rate or equity price risk of this exposure. DAC and DSIC Amortization For annuity and universal life products, DAC and DSIC are amortized on the basis of estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits are a proxy for pretax income prior to the recognition of DAC and DSIC amortization expense. When events occur that reduce or increase current period estimated gross profits, DAC and DSIC amortization expense is typically reduced or increased as well, somewhat mitigating the impact of the event on pretax income. Variable Annuity Riders The total value of all variable annuity contracts has increased from $43.3 billion at December 31, 2008 to $55.1 billion at December 31, 2009. These contract values include GMWB and GMAB contracts which have increased from $12.7 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2008 to $19.2 billion and $2.9 billion at December 31, 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2009, reserves for GMWB and GMAB were $204 million and $100 million, respectively, compared to reserves of $1.5 billion and $367 million at December 31, 2008, respectively. The decrease in reserves for GMWB and GMAB reflect the changes in economic factors impacting the mark to market value of the guarantees. At December 31, 2009, the reserve for the other variable annuity guaranteed benefits, GMDB and GMIB, was $12 million compared to $67 million at December 31, 2008. Equity Price Risk Variable Annuity Riders The variable annuity guaranteed benefits guarantee payouts to the annuity holder under certain specific conditions regardless of the performance of the investment assets. For this reason, when equity prices decline, the returns from the separate account assets coupled with guaranteed benefit fees from annuity holders may not be sufficient to fund expected payouts. In that case, reserves must be increased with a negative impact to earnings. The core derivative instruments with which we hedge the equity price risk of our GMWB and GMAB provisions are longer dated put and call derivatives; these core instruments are supplemented with equity futures and total return swaps. In the third quarter of 2009, we entered into a limited number of derivative contracts to economically hedge equity exposure related to GMDB provisions on variable ANNUAL REPORT 2009 85 Table of Contents annuity contracts written previously in 2009. See Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our derivative instruments. Interest Rate Risk Variable Annuity Riders The GMAB and the non life contingent benefits associated with the GMWB provisions create embedded derivatives which are carried at fair value separately from the underlying host variable annuity contract. Changes in the fair value of the GMWB and GMAB liabilities are recorded through earnings with fair value calculated based on projected, discounted cash flows over the life of the contract, including projected, discounted benefits and fees. Increases in interest rates reduce the fair value of the GMWB and GMAB liabilities. The GMWB and GMAB interest rate exposure is hedged with a portfolio of longer dated put and call derivatives, interest rate swaps and swaptions. These derivatives are an alternative to the more customized equity puts we previously used. We have entered into interest rate swaps according to risk exposures along maturities, thus creating both fixed rate payor and variable rate payor terms. If interest rates were to increase, we would have to pay more to the swap counterparty, and the fair value of our equity puts would decrease, resulting in a negative impact to our pretax income. Fixed Annuities, Fixed Portion of Variable Annuities and Fixed Insurance Products Interest rate exposures arise primarily with respect to the fixed account portion of annuity and insurance products of RiverSource Life companies and their investment portfolios. We guarantee an interest rate to the holders of these products. Premiums and deposits collected from clients are primarily invested in fixed rate securities to fund the client credited rate with the spread between the rate earned from investments and the rate credited to clients recorded as earned income. Client liabilities and investment assets generally differ as it relates to basis, repricing or maturity characteristics. Rates credited to clients accounts generally reset at shorter intervals than the yield on the underlying investments. Therefore, in an increasing rate environment, higher interest rates are reflected in crediting rates to clients sooner than in rates earned on invested assets resulting in a reduced spread between the two rates, reduced earned income and a negative impact on pretax income. Of the $30.9 billion in future policy benefits and claims on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2009, $30.1 billion related to liabilities created by these products. We do not hedge this exposure. Flexible Savings and Other Fixed Rate Savings Products We have interest rate risk from our flexible savings and other fixed rate savings products. These products are primarily investment certificates generally ranging in amounts from $1,000 to $1 million with terms ranging from three to 36 months, as well as other savings products sold through Ameriprise Bank. We guarantee an interest rate to the holders of these products. Payments collected from clients are primarily invested in fixed rate securities to fund the client credited rate with the spread between the rate earned from investments and the rate credited to clients recorded as earned income. Client liabilities and investment assets generally differ as it relates to basis, repricing or maturity characteristics. Rates credited to clients generally reset at shorter intervals than the yield on underlying investments. This exposure is not currently hedged although we monitor our investment strategy and make modifications based on our changing liabilities and the expected rate environment. Of the $8.6 billion in customer deposits at December 31, 2009, $3.2 billion related to reserves for our fixed rate certificate products and $2.6 billion related to reserves for our banking products. Equity Indexed Annuities Our equity indexed annuity product is a single premium annuity issued with an initial term of seven years. The annuity guarantees the contractholder a minimum return of 3% on 90% of the initial premium or end of prior term accumulation value upon renewal plus a return that is linked to the performance of the S&P 500 Index. The equity linked return is based on a participation rate initially set at between 50% and 90% of the S&P 500 Index, which is guaranteed for the initial seven year term when the contract is held to full term. At December 31, 2009, we had $168 million in reserves related to equity indexed annuities. In 2007, we discontinued new sales of equity indexed annuities. Equity Price Risk Equity Indexed Annuities The equity linked return to investors creates equity price risk as the amount credited depends on changes in equity prices. To hedge this exposure, a portion of the proceeds from the sale of equity indexed annuities is used to purchase futures, calls and puts which generate returns to replicate what we must credit to client accounts. In conjunction with purchasing puts we also write puts. Pairing purchased puts with written puts allows us to better match the characteristics of the liability. 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk Equity Indexed Annuities Most of the proceeds from the sale of equity indexed annuities are invested in fixed income securities with the return on those investments intended to fund the 3% guarantee. We earn income from the difference between the return earned on invested assets and the 3% guarantee rate credited to customer accounts. The spread between return earned and amount credited is affected by changes in interest rates. Stock Market Certificates Stock market certificates are purchased for amounts generally from $1,000 to $1 million for terms of 52 weeks which can be extended to a maximum of 20 years. For each term the certificate holder can choose to participate 100% in any percentage increase in the S&P 500 Index up to a maximum return or choose partial participation in any increase in the S&P 500 Index plus a fixed rate of interest guaranteed in advance. If partial participation is selected, the total of equity linked return and guaranteed rate of interest cannot exceed the maximum return. Reserves for our stock market certificates are included in customer deposits on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2009, we had $878 million in reserves related to stock market certificates. Equity Price Risk Stock Market Certificates As with the equity indexed annuities, the equity linked return to investors creates equity price risk exposure. We seek to minimize this exposure with purchased futures and call spreads that replicate what we must credit to client accounts. Interest Rate Risk Stock Market Certificates Stock market certificates have some interest rate risk as changes in interest rates affect the fair value of the payout to be made to the certificate holder. This risk continues to be fully hedged. Foreign Currency Risk We have foreign currency risk through our net investment in foreign subsidiaries and our operations in foreign countries. We are primarily exposed to changes in British Pounds ("GBP") related to our net investment in Threadneedle, which had 427 million GBP exposure at December 31, 2009. Our primary exposure related to operations in foreign countries is to the GBP and the Indian Rupee. We monitor the foreign exchange rates that we have exposure to and enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate risk when economically prudent. At December 31, 2009, the notional value of outstanding contracts and our remaining foreign currency risk related to operations in foreign countries were not material. Interest Rate Risk on External Debt The stated interest rate on the $1.5 billion of our senior unsecured notes is fixed and the stated interest rate on the $322 million of junior notes is fixed until June 1, 2016. In January 2010, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements to effectively convert the fixed interest rate on $1.0 billion of the senior unsecured notes to floating interest rates based on six month LIBOR. As a result, we are exposed to interest rate risk on this debt. We also have floating rate debt of $6 million related to our municipal bond inverse floater certificates and $381 million related to certain consolidated property funds, a portion of which is hedged using interest rate swaps which effectively convert the floating rates to fixed rates. The remaining interest rate risk on this debt is not material. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk within our investment portfolio, including our loan portfolio, and through our derivative and reinsurance activities. Credit risk relates to the uncertainty of an obligors continued ability to make timely payments in accordance with the contractual terms of the financial instrument or contract. We consider our total potential credit exposure to each counterparty and its affiliates to ensure compliance with pre established credit guidelines at the time we enter into a transaction which would potentially increase our credit risk. These guidelines and oversight of credit risk are managed through a comprehensive enterprise risk management program that includes members of senior management. We manage the risk of credit related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties by applying disciplined fundamental credit analysis and underwriting standards, prudently limiting exposures to lower quality, higher yielding investments, and diversifying exposures by issuer, industry, region and underlying investment type. We remain exposed to occasional adverse cyclical economic downturns during which default rates may be significantly higher than the long term historical average used in pricing. ANNUAL REPORT 2009 87 Table of Contents We manage our credit risk related to over the counter derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through the use of master netting arrangements that provide for a single net payment to be made by one counterparty to another at each due date and upon termination. Generally, our current credit exposure on over the counter derivative contracts is limited to a derivative counterpartys net positive fair value of derivative contracts after taking into consideration the existence of netting arrangements and any collateral received. This exposure is monitored and managed to an acceptable threshold level. Because exchange traded futures are effected through regulated exchanges and positions are marked to market and generally cash settled on a daily basis, we have minimal exposure to credit related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to such derivative instruments. We manage our credit risk related to reinsurance treaties by evaluating the financial condition of reinsurance counterparties prior to entering into new reinsurance treaties. In addition, we regularly evaluate their financial strength during the terms of the treaties. As of December 31, 2009, our largest reinsurance credit risk is related to a long term care coinsurance treaty with a life insurance subsidiary of Genworth Financial, Inc. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on reinsurance. 88 ANNUAL REPORT 2009  Table of Contents  
 
