Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the "Forward Looking Statements," our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes that follow and the "Consolidated Five Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" and the "Risk Factors" included in our Annual Report on Form 10 K. Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to conform to the current presentation. Overview We provide financial planning, products and services that are designed to be utilized as solutions for our clients cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, protection and estate and wealth transfer needs. Our model for delivering these solutions is centered on building long term personal relationships between our affiliated advisors and clients, and in the case of our products distributed through unaffiliated advisors, by supporting those advisors in building strong client relationships. We believe that our focus on personal relationships, together with our strengths in financial planning and product development and distribution, allow us to fully address the evolving financial needs of our clients and our primary target market segment, the mass affluent and affluent, which we define as households with investable assets of more than $100,000. Our branded affiliated advisors financial planning and advisory process is designed to provide comprehensive advice that focuses on all aspects of our clients finances. This approach allows us to recommend actions and a broad range of product solutions consisting of investment, annuity, insurance, banking and other financial products that can help clients attain over time a return or form of protection while accepting what they determine to be an appropriate range and level of risk. Our approach puts us in a strong position to capitalize on significant demographic and market trends, which we believe will continue to drive increased demand for our financial planning and other financial services. Our emphasis on deep client advisor relationships has been central to the success of our business model through the extreme market conditions of the past few years, and we believe it will help us to navigate future market and economic cycles. Our multi platform network of affiliated financial advisors is the primary means by which we develop personal relationships with retail clients. As of December 31, 2010, we had a network of more than 11,400 financial advisors and registered representatives ("affiliated financial advisors"). We refer to the affiliated financial advisors who use our brand name as our branded advisors, and those who do not use our brand name but who are affiliated as registered representatives of ours, as our unbranded advisors. The financial product solutions we offer through our affiliated advisors include both our own products and services and the products of other companies. Our branded advisor network is the primary distribution channel through which we offer our life insurance and annuity products and services, as well as a range of banking and protection products. We offer our branded advisors training, tools, leadership, marketing programs and other field and centralized support to assist them in delivering advice and product solutions to clients. We support unaffiliated advisors with sales and service support and our solutions which they provide to clients. We believe our approach not only improves the products and services we provide to their clients, but also allows us to reinvest in enhanced services for clients and increase support for financial advisors. Our integrated model of financial planning, diversified product manufacturing and affiliated and non affiliated product distribution affords us a deep understanding of our clients, which allows us to better manage the risk profile of our businesses. We believe our focus on meeting clients needs through personal financial planning results in more satisfied clients with deeper, longer lasting relationships with our company and higher retention of our experienced financial advisors. We have four main operating segments: Advice & Wealth Management, Asset Management, Annuities and Protection, as well as our Corporate & Other segment. Our four main operating segments are aligned with the financial solutions we offer to address our clients needs. The products and services we provide retail clients and, to a lesser extent, institutional clients, are the primary source of our revenues and net income. Revenues and net income are significantly affected by investment performance and the total value and composition of assets we manage and administer for our retail and institutional clients as well as the distribution fees we receive from other companies. These factors, in turn, are largely determined by overall investment market performance and the depth and breadth of our individual client relationships. We continue to establish Ameriprise Financial as a financial services leader as we focus on meeting the financial needs of the mass affluent and affluent, as evidenced by our continued leadership in financial planning, a client retention percentage rate of 93% and our status as a top ten ranked firm within core portions of our four main operating segments, including the size of our U.S. advisor force, long term U.S. mutual funds, variable annuities and variable universal life ("VUL") insurance. Equity price, credit market and interest rate fluctuations can have a significant impact on our results of operations, primarily due to the effects they have on the asset management and other asset based fees we earn, the "spread" income generated on our annuities, banking and deposit products and universal life ("UL") insurance products, the value of deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") and deferred sales inducement costs ("DSIC") assets associated with variable annuity and VUL products, the values of liabilities for guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuities and the 40 Table of Contents values of derivatives held to hedge these benefits. For additional information regarding our sensitivity to equity price and interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") updated the accounting standards related to the required consolidation of certain variable interest entities ("VIEs"). We adopted the accounting standard effective January 1, 2010 and recorded as a cumulative change in accounting principle an increase to appropriated retained earnings of consolidated investment entities of $473 million and consolidated approximately $5.5 billion of client assets and $5.1 billion of liabilities in VIEs onto our Consolidated Balance Sheets that were not previously consolidated. Management views the VIE assets as client assets and the liabilities have recourse only to those assets. While the economics of our business have not changed, the financial statements were impacted. Prior to adoption, we consolidated certain property funds and hedge funds. These entities and the VIEs consolidated as of January 1, 2010, are defined as consolidated investment entities ("CIEs"). Changes in the valuation of the CIE assets and liabilities impact pretax income. The net income of the CIEs is reflected in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests. The results of operations of the CIEs are reflected in the Corporate & Other segment. On a consolidated basis, the management fees we earn for the services we provide to the CIEs and the related general and administrative expenses are eliminated and the changes in the assets and liabilities related to the CIEs, primarily debt and underlying syndicated loans, are reflected in net investment income. We continue to include the fees in the management and financial advice fees line within our Asset Management segment. Management believes that operating measures, which exclude net realized gains or losses, integration and restructuring charges and the impact of consolidating CIEs, best reflect the underlying performance of our 2010 and 2009 core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. Management uses certain of these non GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance on a basis comparable to that used by some securities analysts and investors. Also, certain of these non GAAP measures are taken into consideration, to varying degrees, for purposes of business planning and analysis and for certain compensation related matters. Throughout our Managements Discussion and Analysis, these non GAAP measures are referred to as operating measures. While the consolidation of the CIEs impacts our balance sheet and income statement, our exposure to these entities is unchanged and there is no impact to the underlying business results. The CIEs we manage have the following characteristics: They were formed on behalf of institutional investors to obtain a diversified investment portfolio and were not formed in order to obtain financing for Ameriprise Financial. Ameriprise Financial receives customary, industry standard management fees for the services it provides to these CIEs and has a fiduciary responsibility to maximize the investors returns. Ameriprise Financial does not have any obligation to provide financial support to the CIEs, does not provide any performance guarantees of the CIEs and has no obligation to absorb the investors losses. Management excludes the impact of consolidating the CIEs on assets, liabilities, pretax income and equity for setting our financial performance targets and annual incentive award compensation targets. It is managements priority to increase shareholder value over a multi year horizon by achieving our on average, over time financial targets. Our financial targets are: Net operating revenue growth of 6% to 8%, Operating earnings per diluted share growth of 12% to 15%, and Operating return on equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income of 12% to 15%. On April 30, 2010, we acquired the long term asset management business of Columbia Management Group from Bank of America (the "Columbia Management Acquisition"). The acquisition, the integration of which is expected to be completed in 2011, is expected to further enhance the scale and performance of our retail mutual fund and institutional asset management businesses. Our initial estimate of the purchase price was $927 million, which included a provisional estimate of a payable to Bank of America of $31 million and $30 million of assumed liabilities. We recorded the assets and liabilities acquired at fair value and allocated the costs to goodwill and intangible assets. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we determined the provisional payable was no longer necessary and goodwill was reduced by $31 million as of the acquisition date. We incurred pretax non recurring integration costs related to the Columbia Management Acquisition of $100 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. In total, we have incurred $107 million of pretax non recurring integration costs through December 31, 2010, and expect to incur between $130 million and $160 million in total of such costs through 2011. These costs include system integration costs, proxy and other regulatory filing costs, employee reduction and retention costs, and investment banking, legal and other acquisition costs. We have realized integration gross expense synergies of approximately $75 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and expect annualized 41 Table of Contents synergies to reach $150 million to $190 million for 2012. The rate of decline in costs from such synergies may vary by quarter. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we completed the acquisitions of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc., subsequently renamed Ameriprise Advisor Services, Inc. ("AASI"), J.&W. Seligman & Co., Incorporated ("Seligman") and Brecek & Young Advisors, Inc. which further expanded our retail distribution and asset management capabilities. The cost of the acquisitions was $787 million, which included the purchase price and transaction costs. We recorded the assets and liabilities acquired at fair value and allocated the remaining costs to goodwill and intangible assets. We incurred integration charges related to these acquisitions of $7 million, $91 million and $19 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Critical Accounting Policies The accounting and reporting policies that we use affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting and reporting policies are critical to an understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition and, in some cases, the application of these policies can be significantly affected by the estimates, judgments and assumptions made by management during the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting and reporting policies we have identified as fundamental to a full understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition are described below. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about our accounting policies. Valuation of Investments The most significant component of our investments is our Available for Sale securities, which we carry at fair value within our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair value of our Available for Sale securities at December 31, 2010 was primarily obtained from third party pricing sources. We record unrealized securities gains (losses) in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of impacts to DAC, DSIC, certain benefit reserves and income taxes. We recognize gains and losses in results of operations upon disposition of the securities. Effective January 1, 2009, we early adopted an accounting standard that significantly changed our accounting policy regarding the timing and amount of other than temporary impairments for Available for Sale securities. When the fair value of an investment is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether or not: (i) we have the intent to sell the security (made a decision to sell) or (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before its anticipated recovery. If either of these conditions is met, an other than temporary impairment is considered to have occurred and we must recognize an other than temporary impairment for the difference between the investments amortized cost basis and its fair value through earnings. For securities that do not meet the above criteria, and we do not expect to recover a securitys amortized cost basis, the security is also considered other than temporarily impaired. For these securities, we separate the total impairment into the credit loss component and the amount of the loss related to other factors. The amount of the total other than temporary impairment related to credit loss is recognized in earnings. The amount of the total other than temporary impairment related to other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income, net of impacts to DAC, DSIC, certain benefit reserves and income taxes. For Available for Sale securities that have recognized an other than temporary impairment through earnings, if through subsequent evaluation there is a sustained increase in the cash flow expected, the difference between the amortized cost basis and the cash flows expected to be collected is accreted as interest income. Subsequent increases and decreases in the fair value of Available for Sale securities are included in other comprehensive income. For all securities that are considered temporarily impaired, we do not intend to sell these securities (have not made a decision to sell) and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. We believe that we will collect all principal and interest due on all investments that have amortized cost in excess of fair value that are considered only temporarily impaired. Factors we consider in determining whether declines in the fair value of fixed maturity securities are other than temporary include: (i) the extent to which the market value is below amortized cost; (ii) the duration of time in which there has been a significant decline in value; (iii) fundamental analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and overall financial condition of the issuer; and (iv) market events that could impact credit ratings, economic and business climate, litigation and government actions, and similar external business factors. In order to determine the amount of the credit loss component for corporate debt securities considered other than temporarily impaired, a best estimate of the present value of cash flows expected to be collected discounted at the securitys effective interest rate is compared to the amortized cost basis of the security. The significant inputs to cash flow projections consider potential debt restructuring terms, projected cash flows available to pay creditors and our position in the debtors overall capital structure. For structured investments (e.g., residential mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities and other structured investments), we also consider factors such as overall deal structure and our position within the structure, quality of underlying collateral, delinquencies and defaults, loss severities, recoveries, 42 Table of Contents prepayments and cumulative loss projections in assessing potential other than temporary impairments of these investments. Based upon these factors, securities that have indicators of potential other than temporary impairment are subject to detailed review by management. Securities for which declines are considered temporary continue to be carefully monitored by management. Deferred Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducement Costs For our annuity and life, disability income and long term care insurance products, our DAC and DSIC balances at any reporting date are supported by projections that show management expects there to be adequate premiums or estimated gross profits after that date to amortize the remaining DAC and DSIC balances. These projections are inherently uncertain because they require management to make assumptions about financial markets, anticipated mortality and morbidity levels and policyholder behavior over periods extending well into the future. In the third quarter of 2010, management extended the projection periods used for its annuity products to 30 to 50 years compared to previous projection periods of 10 to 25 years. Projection periods for our life insurance and long term care insurance products are often 50 years or longer and projection periods for our disability income products can be up to 45 years. Management regularly monitors financial market conditions and actual policyholder behavior experience and compares them to its assumptions. For annuity and universal life insurance products, the assumptions made in projecting future results and calculating the DAC balance and DAC amortization expense are managements best estimates. Management is required to update these assumptions whenever it appears that, based on actual experience or other evidence, earlier estimates should be revised. When assumptions are changed, the percentage of estimated gross profits used to amortize DAC might also change. A change in the required amortization percentage is applied retrospectively; an increase in amortization percentage will result in a decrease in the DAC balance and an increase in DAC amortization expense, while a decrease in amortization percentage will result in an increase in the DAC balance and a decrease in DAC amortization expense. The impact on results of operations of changing assumptions can be either positive or negative in any particular period and is reflected in the period in which such changes are made. For products with associated DSIC, the same policy applies in calculating the DSIC balance and periodic DSIC amortization. For other life, disability income and long term care insurance products, the assumptions made in calculating our DAC balance and DAC amortization expense are consistent with those used in determining the liabilities and, therefore, are intended to provide for adverse deviations in experience and are revised only if management concludes experience will be so adverse that DAC are not recoverable. If management concludes that DAC are not recoverable, DAC are reduced to the amount that is recoverable based on best estimate assumptions and there is a corresponding expense recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. For annuity and life, disability income and long term care insurance products, key assumptions underlying these long term projections include interest rates (both earning rates on invested assets and rates credited to contractholder and policyholder accounts), equity market performance, mortality and morbidity rates and the rates at which policyholders are expected to surrender their contracts, make withdrawals from their contracts and make additional deposits to their contracts. Assumptions about earned and credited interest rates are the primary factors used to project interest margins, while assumptions about equity and bond market performance are the primary factors used to project client asset value growth rates, and assumptions about surrenders, withdrawals and deposits comprise projected persistency rates. Management must also make assumptions to project maintenance expenses associated with servicing our annuity and insurance businesses during the DAC amortization period. The client asset value growth rates are the rates at which variable annuity and variable universal life insurance contract values invested in separate accounts are assumed to appreciate in the future. The rates used vary by equity and fixed income investments. Management reviews and, where appropriate, adjusts its assumptions with respect to client asset value growth rates on a regular basis. In the third quarter of 2010, management adjusted the long term client asset value growth rates to 9% for equity funds and 6% for fixed income funds compared to previous returns of 9% and 6.5%, respectively. We typically use a five year mean reversion process as a guideline in setting near term equity fund growth rates based on a long term view of financial market performance as well as recent actual performance. The suggested near term equity fund growth rate is reviewed quarterly to ensure consistency with managements assessment of anticipated equity market performance. In the third quarter of 2010, management reset the near term equity fund growth rate to equal the 9% long term rate. Assumed near term fixed income fund growth rates are less than the 6% long term rate. 43 Table of Contents A decrease of 100 basis points in various rate assumptions is likely to result in an increase in DAC and DSIC amortization and an increase in benefits and claims expense from variable annuity guarantees. The following table presents the estimated impact to pretax income: Estimated Impact to Pretax Income(1) (in millions) Decrease in future near and long term equity returns by 100 basis points $ (60 ) Decrease in future near and long term fixed income returns by 100 basis points (32 ) Decrease in near term equity fund growth returns by 100 basis points (35 ) (1)An increase in the above assumptions by 100 basis points would result in an increase to pretax income for approximately the same amount. We monitor other principal DAC and DSIC amortization assumptions, such as persistency, mortality, morbidity, interest margin and maintenance expense levels each quarter and, when assessed independently, each could impact our DAC and DSIC balances. The analysis of DAC and DSIC balances and the corresponding amortization is a dynamic process that considers all relevant factors and assumptions described previously. Unless management identifies a significant deviation over the course of the quarterly monitoring, management reviews and updates these DAC and DSIC amortization assumptions annually in the third quarter of each year. An assessment of sensitivity associated with changes in any single assumption would not necessarily be an indicator of future results. Future Policy Benefits and Claims Fixed Annuities and Variable Annuity Guarantees Future policy benefits and claims related to fixed annuities and variable annuity guarantees include liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable deferred annuities, guaranteed benefits associated with variable annuities, equity indexed annuities and fixed annuities in a payout status. Liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable deferred annuities are equal to accumulation values, which are the cumulative gross deposits and credited interest less withdrawals and various charges. The majority of the variable annuity contracts offered by us contain guaranteed minimum death benefit ("GMDB") provisions. When market values of the customers accounts decline, the death benefit payable on a contract with a GMDB may exceed the contract accumulation value. We also offer variable annuities with death benefit provisions that gross up the amount payable by a certain percentage of contract earnings which are referred to as gain gross up benefits. In addition, we offer contracts with guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit ("GMWB") and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit ("GMAB") provisions and, until May 2007, we offered contracts containing guaranteed minimum income benefit ("GMIB") provisions. In determining the liabilities for GMDB, GMIB and the life contingent benefits associated with GMWB, we project these benefits and contract assessments using actuarial models to simulate various equity market scenarios. Significant assumptions made in projecting future benefits and assessments relate to customer asset value growth rates, mortality, persistency and investment margins and are consistent with those used for DAC asset valuation for the same contracts. As with DAC, management reviews, and where appropriate, adjusts its assumptions each quarter. Unless management identifies a material deviation over the course of quarterly monitoring, management reviews and updates these assumptions annually in the third quarter of each year. The amounts in the table above in "Deferred Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducement Costs" include the estimated impact to benefits and claims expense related to variable annuity guarantees resulting from a decrease of 100 basis points in various rate assumptions. The GMDB liability is determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected contract accumulation value and recognizing the excess over the estimated meaningful life based on expected assessments (e.g., mortality and expense fees, contractual administrative charges and similar fees). If elected by the contract owner and after a stipulated waiting period from contract issuance, a GMIB guarantees a minimum lifetime annuity based on a specified rate of contract accumulation value growth and predetermined annuity purchase rates. The GMIB liability is determined each period by estimating the expected value of annuitization benefits in excess of the projected contract accumulation value at the date of annuitization and recognizing the excess over the estimated meaningful life based on expected assessments. The embedded derivatives related to GMAB and the non life contingent benefits associated with GMWB provisions are recorded at fair value. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the fair value measurement of embedded derivatives. The liability for the life contingent benefits associated with GMWB provisions is 44 Table of Contents determined in the same way as the GMDB liability. The changes in both the fair values of the GMWB and GMAB embedded derivatives and the liability for life contingent benefits are reflected in benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses. Liabilities for equity indexed annuities are equal to the accumulation of host contract values covering guaranteed benefits and the fair value of embedded equity options. Liabilities for fixed annuities in a benefit or payout status are based on future estimated payments using established industry mortality tables and interest rates, ranging from 4.6% to 9.5% at December 31, 2010, depending on year of issue, with an average rate of approximately 5.6%. Life, Disability Income and Long Term Care Insurance Future policy benefits and claims related to life, disability income and long term care insurance include liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable universal life policies, liabilities for unpaid amounts on reported claims, estimates of benefits payable on claims incurred but not yet reported and estimates of benefits that will become payable on term life, whole life, disability income and long term care policies as claims are incurred in the future. Liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable universal life insurance are equal to accumulation values. Accumulation values are the cumulative gross deposits and credited interest less various contractual expense and mortality charges and less amounts withdrawn by policyholders. A portion of our fixed and variable universal life contracts have product features that result in profits followed by losses from the insurance component of the contract. These profits followed by losses can be generated by the cost structure of the product or secondary guarantees in the contract. The secondary guarantee ensures that, subject to specified conditions, the policy will not terminate and will continue to provide a death benefit even if there is insufficient policy value to cover the monthly deductions and charges. In determining the liability for contracts with profits followed by losses, we project benefits and contract assessments using actuarial models. Significant assumptions made in projecting future benefits and assessments relate to customer asset value growth rates, mortality, persistency and investment margins and are consistent with those used for DAC asset valuation for the same contracts. As with DAC, management reviews, and where appropriate, adjusts its assumptions each quarter. Unless management identifies a material deviation over the course of quarterly monitoring, management reviews and updates these assumptions annually in the third quarter of each year. The liability for these future losses is determined by estimating the death benefits in excess of account value and recognizing the excess over the estimated meaningful life based on expected assessments (e.g. cost of insurance charges, contractual administrative charges, similar fees and investment margin). See Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the liability for contracts with secondary guarantees. Liabilities for unpaid amounts on reported life insurance claims are equal to the death benefits payable under the policies. Liabilities for unpaid amounts on reported disability income and long term care claims include any periodic or other benefit amounts due and accrued, along with estimates of the present value of obligations for continuing benefit payments. These amounts are calculated based on claim continuance tables which estimate the likelihood an individual will continue to be eligible for benefits. Present values are calculated at interest rates established when claims are incurred. Anticipated claim continuance rates are based on established industry tables, adjusted as appropriate for our experience. Interest rates used with disability income claims ranged from 3.0% to 8.0% at December 31, 2010, with an average rate of 4.6%. Interest rates used with long term care claims ranged from 4.0% to 7.0% at December 31, 2010, with an average rate of 4.0%. Liabilities for estimated benefits payable on claims that have been incurred but not yet reported are based on periodic analysis of the actual time lag between when a claim occurs and when it is reported. Liabilities for estimates of benefits that will become payable on future claims on term life, whole life, disability income and long term care policies are based on the net level premium method, using anticipated premium payments, mortality and morbidity rates, policy persistency and interest rates earned on assets supporting the liability. Anticipated mortality and morbidity rates are based on established industry mortality and morbidity tables, with modifications based on our experience. Anticipated premium payments and persistency rates vary by policy form, issue age, policy duration and certain other pricing factors. Anticipated interest rates for term and whole life ranged from 4.0% to 10.0% at December 31, 2010, depending on policy form, issue year and policy duration. Anticipated interest rates for disability income policies ranged from 4.0% to 7.5% at December 31, 2010, depending on policy form, issue year and policy duration. Anticipated interest rates for long term care policy reserves can vary by plan and year and ranged from 5.8% to 9.4% at December 31, 2010. Where applicable, benefit amounts expected to be recoverable from reinsurance companies who share in the risk are separately recorded as reinsurance recoverable within receivables. 45 Table of Contents Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to various market risks. Examples include index options, interest rate swaps and swaptions, total return swaps, and futures that economically hedge the equity and interest rate exposure of derivatives embedded in certain annuity and certificate liabilities, as well as exposure to price risk arising from affiliated mutual fund seed money investments. All derivatives are recorded at fair value. The fair value of our derivative instruments is determined using either market quotes or valuation models that are based upon the net present value of estimated future cash flows and incorporate current market observable inputs to the extent available. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on its intended use and the resulting hedge designation, if any. We primarily use derivatives as economic hedges that are not designated as accounting hedges or do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. We occasionally designate derivatives as (i) hedges of changes in the fair value of assets, liabilities or firm commitments ("fair value hedges"), (ii) hedges of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability ("cash flow hedges") or (iii) hedges of foreign currency exposures of net investments in foreign operations ("net investment hedges in foreign operations"). Our policy is to not offset fair value amounts recognized for derivatives and collateral arrangements executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangement. For derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in current period earnings. The changes in fair value of derivatives hedging variable annuity living benefits and certain variable annuity death benefits, when applicable, are included within benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses. The changes in fair value of derivatives hedging equity indexed annuities and stock market certificates are included within interest credited to fixed accounts and banking and deposit interest expense, respectively. The changes in fair value of derivatives hedging equity price risk of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. common stock granted as part of the Ameriprise Financial Franchise Advisor Deferred Equity Plan are included in distribution expenses. The changes in fair value of all other derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges are a component of net investment income. For derivative instruments that qualify as fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivatives, as well as changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments, are recognized on a net basis in current period earnings. The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted for the change in fair value from the designated hedged risk. If a fair value hedge designation is removed or the hedge is terminated prior to maturity, previous adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged item are recognized into earnings over the remaining life of the hedged item. For derivative instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instruments is reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified into earnings when the hedged item or transaction impacts earnings. The amount that is reclassified into earnings is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Operations with the hedged instrument or transaction impact. Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss is reported in current period earnings as a component of net investment income. If a hedge designation is removed or a hedge is terminated prior to maturity, the amount previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is reclassified to earnings over the period that the hedged item impacts earnings. For any hedge relationships that are discontinued because the forecasted transaction is not expected to occur according to the original strategy, any related amounts previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are recognized in earnings immediately. For derivative instruments that qualify as net investment hedges in foreign operations, the effective portion of the change in fair value of the derivatives is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as part of the foreign currency translation adjustment. Any ineffective portion of net investment hedges in foreign operations is recognized in net investment income during the period of change. For further details on the types of derivatives we use and how we account for them, see Note 2 and Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Tax Accounting Income taxes, as reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements, represent the net amount of income taxes that we expect to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions in connection with our operations. We provide for income taxes based on amounts that we believe we will ultimately owe taking into account the recognition and measurement for uncertain tax positions. Inherent in the provision for income taxes are estimates and judgments regarding the tax treatment of certain items. In the event that the ultimate tax treatment of items differs from our estimates, we may be required to significantly change the provision for income taxes recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with the provision for income taxes, our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect certain amounts related to deferred tax assets and liabilities, which result from temporary differences between the assets and liabilities measured for financial statement purposes versus the assets and liabilities measured for tax return purposes. Included in deferred tax assets are significant capital losses that have been recognized for financial statement purposes but not yet for tax return purposes as well as future deductible capital losses realized for tax return purposes. Under current U.S. federal income tax 46 Table of Contents law, capital losses generally must be used against capital gain income within five years of the year in which the capital losses are recognized for tax purposes. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for any portion of our deferred tax assets that management believes will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in determining if a valuation allowance should be established, and the amount of such allowance if required. Factors used in making this determination include estimates relating to the performance of the business including the ability to generate capital gains. Consideration is given to, among other things in making this determination, (i) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards, (ii) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, (iii) taxable income in prior carryback years, and (iv) tax planning strategies. Management may need to identify and implement appropriate planning strategies to ensure our ability to realize our deferred tax assets and avoid the establishment of a valuation allowance with respect to such assets. In the opinion of management, it is currently more likely than not that we will realize the benefit of our deferred tax assets, including our capital loss deferred tax asset; therefore, no such valuation allowance has been established. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information regarding recent accounting pronouncements and their expected impact on our future consolidated results of operations and financial condition, see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Sources of Revenues and Expenses Management and Financial Advice Fees Management and financial advice fees relate primarily to fees earned from managing mutual funds, separate account and wrap account assets and institutional investments, as well as fees earned from providing financial advice and administrative services (including transfer agent, administration and custodial fees earned from providing services to retail mutual funds). Management and financial advice fees also include mortality and expense risk fees earned on separate account assets. Our management fees are generally accrued daily and collected monthly. A significant portion of our management fees are calculated as a percentage of the fair value of our managed assets. The substantial majority of our managed assets are valued by independent pricing services vendors based upon observable market data. The selection of our pricing services vendors and the reliability of their prices are subject to certain governance procedures, such as periodic comparison across pricing vendors, due diligence reviews, daily price variance analysis, subsequent sales testing, stale price review, pricing vendor challenge process, and valuation committee oversight. Several of our mutual funds have a performance incentive adjustment ("PIA"). The PIA increases or decreases the level of management fees received based on the specific funds relative performance as measured against a designated external index. We expect that the PIA earned by our mutual funds will be discontinued during 2011. We may also receive performance based incentive fees from hedge funds or other structured investments that we manage. We recognize PIA revenue monthly on a 12 month rolling performance basis. The monthly PIA and annual performance fees for structured investments are recognized as revenue at the time the performance fee is finalized or no longer subject to adjustment. The PIA is finalized on a monthly basis. All other performance fees are based on a full contract year and are final at the end of the contract year. Any performance fees received are not subject to repayment or any other clawback provisions and approximately 1% of managed assets as of December 31, 2010 are subject to "high water marks" whereby we will not earn incentive fees even if the fund has positive returns until it surpasses the previous high water mark. Employee benefit plan and institutional investment management and administration services fees are negotiated and are also generally based on underlying asset values. Fees from financial planning and advice services are recognized when the financial plan is delivered. Distribution Fees Distribution fees primarily include point of sale fees (such as mutual fund front end sales loads) and asset based fees (such as 12b 1 distribution and shareholder service fees) that are generally based on a contractual percentage of assets and recognized when earned. Distribution fees also include amounts received under marketing support arrangements for sales of mutual funds and other companies products, such as through our wrap accounts, as well as surrender charges on fixed and variable universal life insurance and annuities. Net Investment Income Net investment income primarily includes interest income on fixed maturity securities classified as Available for Sale, commercial mortgage loans, policy loans, consumer loans, other investments and cash and cash equivalents; the changes in fair value of trading securities, including seed money, certain derivatives and certain assets and liabilities of consolidated investment entities; the pro rata share of net income or loss on equity method investments; and realized gains and losses on the sale of securities and charges for other than temporary impairments of investments related to credit losses. Interest income is accrued as earned using the effective interest method, which makes an adjustment of the yield for security 47 Table of Contents premiums and discounts on all performing fixed maturity securities classified as Available for Sale and commercial mortgage loans so that the related security or loan recognizes a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance throughout its term. Realized gains and losses on securities, other than trading securities and equity method investments, are recognized using the specific identification method on a trade date basis. Premiums Premiums include premiums on property casualty insurance, traditional life and health (disability income and long term care) insurance and immediate annuities with a life contingent feature. Premiums on auto and home insurance are net of reinsurance premiums and are recognized ratably over the coverage period. Premiums on traditional life and health insurance are net of reinsurance ceded and are recognized as revenue when due. Other Revenues Other revenues include certain charges assessed on fixed and variable universal life insurance and annuities, which consist of cost of insurance charges, net of reinsurance premiums and cost of reinsurance for universal life insurance products, variable annuity guaranteed benefit rider charges and administration charges against contractholder accounts or balances. Premiums paid by fixed and variable universal life policyholders and annuity contractholders are considered deposits and are not included in revenue. Other revenues also include revenues related to certain consolidated limited partnerships. Banking and Deposit Interest Expense Banking and deposit interest expense primarily includes interest expense related to banking deposits and investment certificates. Additionally, banking and deposit interest expense includes interest related to non recourse debt of certain consolidated limited partnerships. The changes in fair value of stock market certificate embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging stock market certificates are included within banking and deposit interest expense. Distribution Expenses Distribution expenses primarily include compensation paid to our financial advisors, registered representatives, third party distributors and wholesalers, net of amounts capitalized and amortized as part of DAC. The amounts capitalized and amortized are based on actual distribution costs. The majority of these costs, such as advisor and wholesaler compensation, vary directly with the level of sales. Distribution expenses also include marketing support and other distribution and administration related payments made to affiliated and unaffiliated distributors of products provided by our affiliates. The majority of these expenses vary with the level of sales, or assets held, by these distributors, and the remainder is fixed. Distribution expenses also include wholesaling costs. Interest Credited to Fixed Accounts Interest credited to fixed accounts represents amounts earned by contractholders and policyholders on fixed account values associated with fixed and variable universal life and annuity contracts. The changes in fair value of equity indexed annuity embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging equity indexed annuities are included within interest credited to fixed accounts. Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses consist of amounts paid and changes in liabilities held for anticipated future benefit payments under insurance policies and annuity contracts, along with costs to process and pay such amounts. Amounts are net of benefit payments recovered or expected to be recovered under reinsurance contracts. Benefits under variable annuity guarantees include the changes in fair value of GMWB and GMAB embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging these benefits, as well as the changes in fair value of derivatives hedging GMDB provisions. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses also include amortization of DSIC. Amortization of DAC Direct sales commissions and other costs capitalized as DAC are amortized over time. For annuity and universal life contracts, DAC are amortized based on projections of estimated gross profits over amortization periods equal to the approximate life of the business. For other insurance products, DAC are generally amortized as a percentage of premiums over amortization periods equal to the premium paying period. For certain mutual fund products, DAC are generally amortized over fixed periods on a straight line basis adjusted for redemptions. See "Deferred Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducement Costs" under "Critical Accounting Policies" for further information on DAC. Interest and Debt Expense Interest and debt expense primarily includes interest on corporate debt and debt of consolidated investment entities, the impact of interest rate hedging activities and amortization of debt issuance costs. 48 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense includes compensation, share based awards and other benefits for employees (other than employees directly related to distribution, including financial advisors), integration costs, professional and consultant fees, information technology, facilities and equipment, advertising and promotion, legal and regulatory and corporate related expenses. Owned, Managed and Administered Assets Owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we do not provide investment management services and do not recognize management fees, such as investments in non affiliated funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries, as well as restricted and segregated cash and receivables. Managed assets include managed external client assets and managed owned assets. At January 1, 2010, we consolidated approximately $5.5 billion of client assets in VIEs onto our Consolidated Balance Sheets that were not previously consolidated. Prior to January 1, 2010, these assets were included in managed external client assets and were subsequently included in managed owned assets. Managed external client assets include client assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of the Columbia funds and Threadneedle funds, assets of institutional clients and client assets held in wrap accounts. Managed external client assets also include assets managed by sub advisors selected by us. Managed external client assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Managed owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we provide investment management services and recognize management fees in our Asset Management segment, such as the assets of the general account, RiverSource Variable Product funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries and client assets of CIEs. Investors in the mutual funds and face amount certificates we advise may redeem shares on each business day, provided that redemption orders are submitted in a timely fashion. For our institutional clients, advisory contracts may generally be terminated (and managed assets redeemed) upon 30 days written notice. However, we may in limited circumstances negotiate customized termination provisions with certain clients during the contracting process, or we may waive negotiated notice periods at our discretion. Investors in the private investment funds we sponsor can generally redeem shares as of each month end upon 30 days advance written notice, with limited exceptions. In addition, the notice requirements for our private investment funds may be waived or reduced at the discretion of the applicable fund. Administered assets include assets for which we provide administrative services such as client assets invested in other companies products that we offer outside of our wrap accounts. These assets include those held in clients brokerage accounts. We generally record fees received from administered assets as distribution fees. We do not exercise management discretion over these assets and do not earn a management fee. These assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We earn management fees on our owned separate account assets based on the market value of assets held in the separate accounts. We record the income associated with our owned investments, including net realized gains and losses associated with these investments and other than temporary impairments related to credit losses on these investments, as net investment income. For managed assets, we receive management fees based on the value of these assets. We generally report these fees as management and financial advice fees. We may also receive distribution fees based on the value of these assets. Our owned, managed and administered assets are impacted by net flows of client assets, market movements and foreign exchange rates. Owned assets are also affected by changes in our capital structure. The following table presents detail regarding our owned, managed and administered assets: As of December 31, 2010 2009 Change (in billions, except percentages) Owned Assets $ 22.1 $ 36.9 (40 )% Managed Assets(1): Columbia 355.5 149.0 NM Threadneedle 105.6 97.8 8 Wrap account assets 112.7 94.9 19 Eliminations(2) (27.4 ) (15.9 ) 72 Total Managed Assets 546.4 325.8 68 Administered Assets 104.2 95.1 10 Total Owned, Managed and Administered Assets $ 672.7 $ 457.8 47 % NM Not Meaningful. (1)Includes managed external client assets and managed owned assets. (2)Includes eliminations for Columbia mutual fund assets included in wrap account assets and Columbia assets sub advised by Threadneedle. 49  Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 In June 2009, the FASB updated the accounting standards related to the required consolidation of certain VIEs. We adopted the accounting standard effective January 1, 2010 and recorded as a cumulative change in accounting principle an increase to appropriated retained earnings of consolidated investment entities of $473 million and consolidated approximately $5.5 billion of client assets and $5.1 billion of liabilities in VIEs onto our Consolidated Balance Sheets that were not previously consolidated. Management views the VIE assets as client assets and the liabilities have recourse only to those assets. While the economics of our business have not changed, the financial statements were impacted. Prior to adoption, we consolidated certain property funds and hedge funds. These entities and the VIEs consolidated as of January 1, 2010, are defined as CIEs. Changes in the valuation of the CIE assets and liabilities impact pretax income. The net income of the CIEs is reflected in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests. On a consolidated basis, the management fees we earn for the services we provide to the CIEs and the related general and administrative expenses are eliminated and the changes in the assets and liabilities related to the CIEs, primarily debt and underlying syndicated loans, are reflected in net investment income. Management believes that operating measures, which exclude net realized gains or losses, integration and restructuring charges and the impact of consolidating CIEs, best reflect the underlying performance of our 2010 and 2009 core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. See our discussion on the use of these non GAAP measures in the Overview section above. The following table presents our consolidated results of operations: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 3,961 $ (38 ) $ 3,999 $ 2,704 $ (2 ) $ 2,706 $ 1,293 48 % Distribution fees 1,708 1,708 1,420 1,420 288 20 Net investment income 2,313 308 2,005 2,002 55 1,947 58 3 Premiums 1,179 1,179 1,098 1,098 81 7 Other revenues 885 125 760 722 28 694 66 10 Total revenues 10,046 395 9,651 7,946 81 7,865 1,786 23 Banking and deposit interest expense 70 70 141 6 135 (65 ) (48 ) Total net revenues 9,976 395 9,581 7,805 75 7,730 1,851 24 Expenses Distribution expenses 2,431 2,431 1,782 1,782 649 36 Interest credited to fixed accounts 909 909 903 903 6 1 Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 1,757 1,757 1,342 1,342 415 31 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 127 127 217 217 (90 ) (41 ) Interest and debt expense 290 181 109 127 127 (18 ) (14 ) General and administrative expense 2,868 129 2,739 2,514 105 2,409 330 14 Total expenses 8,382 310 8,072 6,885 105 6,780 1,292 19 Pretax income 1,594 85 1,509 920 (30 ) 950 559 59 Income tax provision 334 (27 ) 361 183 (15 ) 198 163 82 Net income 1,260 112 1,148 737 (15 ) 752 396 53 Less: Net income attributable to non controlling interests 163 163 15 15 Net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ 1,097 $ (51 ) $ 1,148 $ 722 $ (30 ) $ 752 $ 396 53 % (1)Includes the elimination of management fees we earn for services provided to the CIEs and the related expense, revenues and expenses of the CIEs, net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. Income tax provision is calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35% on applicable adjustments. 50 Table of Contents The following table presents the components of the adjustments in the table above: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ (38 ) $ $ (38 ) $ (2 ) $ $ (2 ) Distribution fees Net investment income 275 33 308 2 53 55 Premiums Other revenues 125 125 28 28 Total revenues 362 33 395 28 53 81 Banking and deposit interest expense 6 6 Total net revenues 362 33 395 22 53 75 Expenses Distribution expenses Interest credited to fixed accounts Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses Amortization of deferred acquisition costs Interest and debt expense 181 181 General and administrative expense 18 111 129 7 98 105 Total expenses 199 111 310 7 98 105 Pretax income (loss) 163 (78 ) 85 15 (45 ) (30 ) Income tax benefit (27 ) (27 ) (15 ) (15 ) Net income (loss) 163 (51 ) 112 15 (30 ) (15 ) Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 163 163 15 15 Net loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ $ (51 ) $ (51 ) $ $ (30 ) $ (30 ) (1)Other adjustments include net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. Overall Net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial increased $375 million, or 52%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $722 million for the prior year. Operating net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial excludes net realized gains or losses, integration and restructuring charges and the impact of consolidating CIEs. Operating net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial increased $396 million, or 53%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $752 million for the prior year driven by improved client activity, market appreciation and net inflows in wrap account assets and variable annuities, as well as improved scale from the Columbia Management Acquisition. Our annual review of valuation assumptions for RiverSource Life products in the third quarter of 2010 resulted in a net pretax benefit of $88 million. A third quarter expense of $32 million related to an adjustment for insurance and annuity model changes was more than offset by a second quarter benefit of $33 million related to an adjustment for revisions to certain calculations in our valuation of DAC and DSIC. The net benefit of the above items of $89 million reflected a $155 million benefit from persistency improvements, including a net benefit from extending annuity amortization periods and increased living benefits expense, an $85 million expense from resetting near term equity return assumptions equal to the long term assumptions and reducing both near and long term bond fund return assumptions, and $19 million in additional benefits from all other assumption and model changes. Our annual review in the third quarter of 2009 resulted in a net pretax benefit of $134 million, consisting of a decrease in expenses primarily from updating product mortality assumptions for certain life insurance products and from the impact of updating product spreads and expense assumptions, partially offset by a decrease in revenues related to the reinsurance impacts from updating product mortality assumptions. 51 Table of Contents The total pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses for 2010 attributable to the review of valuation assumptions and model changes were as follows: Segment Pretax Benefit (Charge) Other Revenues Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Amortization of DAC Total (in millions) Valuation assumptions and model changes: Annuities $ $ (205 ) $ 336 $ 131 Protection (20 ) (44 ) 22 (42 ) Total $ (20 ) $ (249 ) $ 358 $ 89 The total pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses for 2009 attributable to the review of valuation assumptions were as follows: Segment Pretax Benefit (Charge) Other Revenues Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Amortization of DAC Total (in millions) Valuation assumptions: Annuities $ $ 47 $ 64 $ 111 Protection (65 ) 33 55 23 Total $ (65 ) $ 80 $ 119 $ 134 Results for 2010 included a $34 million pretax benefit from the markets impact on DAC and DSIC compared to $30 million in 2009. Results for 2010 also included a $55 million pretax variable annuity benefits expense, net of hedges, DAC and DSIC, related to market impacts compared to $35 million in the prior year. Net Revenues Net revenues increased $2.2 billion, or 28%, to $10.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $7.8 billion for the prior year. Operating net revenues exclude net realized gains or losses and revenues of the CIEs and include the fees we earn from services provided to the CIEs. Operating net revenues increased $1.9 billion, or 24%, to $9.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $7.7 billion for the prior year primarily due to growth in asset based management fees and distribution fees driven by higher asset levels reflecting the Columbia Management Acquisition, market appreciation and net inflows in wrap account assets and variable annuities, as well as increased client activity levels. Management and financial advice fees increased $1.3 billion, or 46%, to $4.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.7 billion for the prior year. Operating management and financial advice fees include the fees we earn from services provided to the CIEs. Operating management and financial advice fees increased $1.3 billion, or 48%, to $4.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.7 billion for the prior year primarily due to higher asset levels reflecting the Columbia Management Acquisition, market appreciation and net inflows in wrap account assets and variable annuities. The daily average S&P 500 Index increased 20% compared to the prior year. Wrap account assets increased $17.8 billion, or 19%, to $112.7 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year due to net inflows and market appreciation. Average variable annuities contract accumulation values increased $10.3 billion, or 25%, from the prior year due to higher equity market levels and net inflows. Total Asset Management managed assets increased $213.7 billion, or 88%, to $456.8 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year primarily due to the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation, partially offset by net outflows. Distribution fees increased $288 million, or 20%, to $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.4 billion in the prior year primarily due to higher asset based fees driven by growth in assets from the Columbia Management Acquisition, market appreciation and net inflows in wrap account assets and variable annuities, as well as increased client activity. Net investment income increased $311 million, or 16%, to $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.0 billion in the prior year. Net investment income for 2010 included a $275 million gain for changes in the assets and liabilities of CIEs, primarily debt and underlying syndicated loans, compared to $2 million in the prior year. Operating net investment income excludes net realized gains or losses and changes in the assets and liabilities of CIEs, primarily debt and underlying syndicated loans. Operating net investment income increased $58 million, or 3%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.9 billion for the prior year primarily due to a $42 million increase in investment income on fixed maturity securities driven by higher fixed annuity account balances and higher investment 52 Table of Contents yields, as well as higher investment yields and increased account balances related to assets supporting our Protection business, partially offset by lower investment income related to certificates. Premiums increased $81 million, or 7%, to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year primarily due to growth in Auto and Home premiums driven by higher volumes, as well as higher sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies. Auto and Home policy counts increased 9% period over period. Other revenues increased $163 million, or 23%, to $885 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $722 million in the prior year. Operating other revenues exclude revenues of consolidated property funds. Operating other revenues increased $66 million, or 10%, to $760 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $694 million in the prior year primarily due to lower charges related to updating valuation assumptions and model changes, higher fees from variable annuity guarantees, and a $25 million benefit from payments related to the Reserve Funds matter in 2010, partially offset by a $58 million benefit in 2009 from repurchasing our junior notes at a discount. Other revenues in 2010 included a charge of $20 million from updating valuation assumptions and model changes compared to a charge of $65 million in the prior year. Banking and deposit interest expense decreased $71 million, or 50%, to $70 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $141 million in the prior year primarily due to lower certificate balances as a result of the run off of certificate rate promotions and a decrease in crediting rates on certificate products. Expenses Total expenses increased $1.5 billion, or 22%, to $8.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $6.9 billion for the prior year. Operating expenses exclude integration and restructuring charges and expenses of the CIEs. Operating expenses increased $1.3 billion, or 19%, to $8.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $6.8 billion for the prior year primarily due to increases in distribution expenses, benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses and general and administrative expense, partially offset by a decrease in amortization of DAC. Distribution expenses increased $649 million, or 36%, to $2.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.8 billion in the prior year as a result of market appreciation and the Columbia Management Acquisition, as well as higher advisor compensation from business growth. Interest credited to fixed accounts increased $6 million, or 1%, to $909 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $903 million for the prior year driven by higher average fixed annuity account balances, partially offset by a lower average crediting rate on interest sensitive fixed annuities. The average fixed annuity crediting rate excluding capitalized interest decreased to 3.8% in 2010 compared to 3.9% in the prior year. Average fixed annuities contract accumulation values increased $600 million, or 4%, to $14.5 billion for 2010 compared to the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $415 million, or 31%, to $1.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.3 billion for the prior year driven by the impact of updating valuation assumptions and model changes, partially offset by the market impact of variable annuity guaranteed benefits, net of hedges and DSIC. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2010 included an expense of $249 million from updating valuation assumptions and model changes compared to a benefit of $80 million in the prior year. The market impact of variable annuity guaranteed benefits, net of hedges and DSIC, increased benefits expense by $59 million in 2010 compared to an increase of $148 million in the prior year. The market impact in both periods was primarily driven by the impact of nonperformance credit spread on the valuation of living benefit liabilities, which we do not hedge. The market impact to DSIC was a benefit of $3 million in 2010 compared to a benefit of $4 million in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses related to our Auto and Home business increased compared to the prior year primarily due to higher business volumes and higher claims driven by $11 million in catastrophe losses from a hail storm in the Phoenix area and a $16 million reserve increase for higher auto liability claims. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses related to our immediate annuities with life contingencies increased compared to the prior year primarily due to higher premiums. In addition, benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased as a result of the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program ("PN program") in the second quarter of 2010, higher disability income and long term care insurance claims and higher reserves for universal life products with secondary guarantees compared to the prior year. Amortization of DAC decreased $90 million, or 41%, to $127 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $217 million in the prior year. Amortization of DAC in 2010 included a benefit of $358 million from updating valuation assumptions and model changes compared to a benefit of $119 million in the prior year. DAC amortization in 2010 included a benefit of $35 million due to market impacts, including a $4 million benefit offsetting higher variable annuity guaranteed benefit expenses. DAC amortization in 2009 included a benefit of $139 million due to market impacts, including a $113 million benefit offsetting higher variable annuity guaranteed benefit expenses. An increase in DAC amortization related to higher variable annuity gross profits was partially offset by a decrease as a result of the implementation of changes to the PN program in the second quarter of 2010. 53 Table of Contents Interest and debt expense increased $163 million to $290 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $127 million in the prior year. Interest and debt expense in 2010 included $181 million of interest expense on CIE debt compared to nil in the prior year. Operating interest and debt expense excludes interest expense on CIE debt. Operating interest and debt expense decreased $18 million, or 14%, to $109 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $127 million in the prior year primarily due to an expense of $13 million in 2009 related to the early retirement of $450 million of our senior notes due 2010. General and administrative expense increased $354 million, or 14%, to $2.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.5 billion for the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense excludes integration and restructuring charges and expenses of the CIEs. Integration and restructuring charges increased $13 million to $111 million in 2010 compared to $98 million in the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense increased $330 million, or 14%, to $2.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.4 billion for the prior year primarily reflecting ongoing expenses from the Columbia Management Acquisition, as well as higher performance based compensation partially offset by lower hedge fund performance compensation. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate on net income including net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was 21.0% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to 19.9% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in our effective tax rate primarily reflects an increase in pretax income relative to tax advantaged items, which was partially offset by $53 million in benefits from tax planning and the completion of certain audits. Our effective tax rate on net income excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was 23.4% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to 20.2% for the year ended December 31, 2009. On September 25, 2007, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") issued Revenue Ruling 2007 61 in which it announced that it intends to issue regulations with respect to certain computational aspects of the Dividends Received Deduction ("DRD") related to separate account assets held in connection with variable contracts of life insurance companies. Any regulations that the IRS ultimately proposes for issuance in this area will be subject to public notice and comment, at which time insurance companies and other members of the public will have the opportunity to raise legal and practical questions about the content, scope and application of such regulations. As a result, the ultimate timing and substance of any such regulations are unknown at this time, but they may result in the elimination of some or all of the separate account DRD tax benefit that we receive. 54 Table of Contents Results of Operations by Segment Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 The following table presents summary financial information by segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating (in millions) Advice & Wealth Management Net revenues $ 3,810 $ 1 $ 3,809 $ 3,216 $ (15 ) $ 3,231 Expenses 3,509 7 3,502 3,250 64 3,186 Pretax income (loss) $ 301 $ (6 ) $ 307 $ (34 ) $ (79 ) $ 45 Asset Management Net revenues $ 2,368 $ 3 $ 2,365 $ 1,346 $ (3 ) $ 1,349 Expenses 2,050 95 1,955 1,286 30 1,256 Pretax income $ 318 $ (92 ) $ 410 $ 60 $ (33 ) $ 93 Annuities Net revenues $ 2,500 $ 9 $ 2,491 $ 2,265 $ 44 $ 2,221 Expenses 1,852 1,852 1,617 1,617 Pretax income $ 648 $ 9 $ 639 $ 648 $ 44 $ 604 Protection Net revenues $ 2,055 $ 1 $ 2,054 $ 1,971 $ 27 $ 1,944 Expenses 1,651 1,651 1,475 1,475 Pretax income $ 404 $ 1 $ 403 $ 496 $ 27 $ 469 Corporate & Other Net revenues $ 423 $ 419 $ 4 $ 26 $ 24 $ 2 Expenses 500 246 254 276 13 263 Pretax loss $ (77 ) $ 173 $ (250 ) $ (250 ) $ 11 $ (261 ) Less: Pretax income attributable to noncontrolling interests 163 163 15 15 Pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ (240 ) $ 10 $ (250 ) $ (265 ) $ (4 ) $ (261 ) Eliminations Net revenues $ (1,180 ) $ (38 ) $ (1,142 ) $ (1,019 ) $ (2 ) $ (1,017 ) Expenses (1,180 ) (38 ) (1,142 ) (1,019 ) (2 ) (1,017 ) Pretax income $ $ $ $ $ $ (1)Includes the elimination of management fees we earn for services provided to the CIEs and the related expense, revenues and expenses of the CIEs, net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. Advice & Wealth Management Our Advice & Wealth Management segment provides financial planning and advice, as well as full service brokerage and banking services, primarily to retail clients through our financial advisors. Our affiliated financial advisors utilize a diversified selection of both affiliated and non affiliated products to help clients meet their financial needs. A significant portion of revenues in this segment is fee based, driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on owned assets primarily from certificate and banking products. This segment earns revenues (distribution fees) for distributing non affiliated products and earns intersegment revenues (distribution fees) for distributing our affiliated products and services provided to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include expenses for investment management services provided by the Asset Management segment. In addition to purchases of affiliated and non affiliated mutual funds and other securities on a stand alone basis, clients may purchase mutual funds, among other securities, in connection with investment advisory fee based "wrap account" programs or services, and pay fees based on a percentage of their assets. 55 Table of Contents The following table presents the changes in wrap account assets: 2010 2009 (in billions) Balance at January 1 $ 94.9 $ 72.8 Net flows 8.5 9.3 Market appreciation 9.3 12.8 Balance at December 31 $ 112.7 $ 94.9 Wrap account assets had net inflows of $8.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $9.3 billion in the prior year and market appreciation of $9.3 billion in 2010 compared to $12.8 billion in the prior year. We provide securities execution and clearing services for our retail and institutional clients through our registered broker dealer subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2010, we administered $104.2 billion in assets for clients, an increase of $9.1 billion compared to the prior year. Management believes that operating measures, which exclude net realized gains or losses and integration charges for our Advice & Wealth Management segment, best reflect the underlying performance of our 2010 and 2009 core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. See our discussion on the use of these non GAAP measures in the Overview section above. The following table presents the results of operations of our Advice & Wealth Management segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,547 $ $ 1,547 $ 1,234 $ $ 1,234 $ 313 25 % Distribution fees 1,960 1,960 1,733 1,733 227 13 Net investment income 277 1 276 297 (15 ) 312 (36 ) (12 ) Other revenues 93 93 85 85 8 9 Total revenues 3,877 1 3,876 3,349 (15 ) 3,364 512 15 Banking and deposit interest expense 67 67 133 133 (66 ) (50 ) Total net revenues 3,810 1 3,809 3,216 (15 ) 3,231 578 18 Expenses Distribution expenses 2,323 2,323 1,968 1,968 355 18 General and administrative expense 1,186 7 1,179 1,282 64 1,218 (39 ) (3 ) Total expenses 3,509 7 3,502 3,250 64 3,186 316 10 % Pretax income (loss) $ 301 $ (6 ) $ 307 $ (34 ) $ (79 ) $ 45 $ 262 NM NM Not Meaningful. (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses and integration charges. Our Advice & Wealth Management segment pretax income was $301 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $34 million in the prior year. Our Advice & Wealth Management segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses and integration charges, was $307 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $45 million in the prior year driven by higher asset based fees partially offset by higher distribution expenses. Pretax margin for 2010 was 7.9% and operating pretax margin was 8.1%. Net Revenues Net revenues were $3.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $3.2 billion in the prior year, an increase of $594 million, or 18%. Operating net revenues exclude net realized gains or losses. Operating net revenues were $3.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $3.2 billion in the prior year, an increase of $578 million, or 18%, driven by growth in average fee based assets, as well as increased client activity. Management and financial advice fees increased $313 million, or 25%, to $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.2 billion for the prior year driven by growth in average fee based assets resulting from market appreciation and net inflows in wrap account assets. The daily average S&P 500 Index increased 20% compared to the 56 Table of Contents prior year. Wrap account assets increased $17.8 billion, or 19%, to $112.7 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year due to market appreciation and net inflows. Distribution fees increased $227 million, or 13%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.7 billion for the prior year primarily driven by growth in average fee based assets resulting from market appreciation and net inflows in wrap account assets, as well as increased client activity. Net investment income decreased $20 million, or 7%, to $277 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $297 million for the prior year. Operating net investment income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, decreased $36 million, or 12%, to $276 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $312 million for the prior year driven by lower invested assets resulting from net outflows in certificates, as well as lower average yields on invested assets related to certificates. Banking and deposit interest expense decreased $66 million, or 50%, to $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $133 million for the prior year primarily due to lower certificate balances as a result of the run off of certificate rate promotions, as well as a decrease in crediting rates on certificate products. Expenses Total expenses increased $259 million, or 8%, to $3.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $3.3 billion for the prior year. Operating expenses, which exclude integration charges, increased $316 million, or 10%, to $3.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $3.2 billion for the prior year due to an increase in distribution expenses partially offset by a decrease in general and administrative expense. Distribution expenses increased $355 million, or 18%, to $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.0 billion for the prior year primarily due to growth in average fee based assets, as well as higher advisor compensation from business growth. General and administrative expense decreased $96 million, or 7%, to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.3 billion for the prior year. Integration charges decreased $57 million to $7 million in 2010 compared to $64 million in the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense, which excludes integration charges, decreased $39 million, or 3%, to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 reflecting cost controls partially offset by higher legal expenses. Asset Management Our Asset Management segment provides investment advice and investment products to retail and institutional clients. Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC (formerly RiverSource Investments, LLC) predominantly provides U.S. domestic products and services and Threadneedle predominantly provides international investment products and services. U.S. domestic retail products are distributed through unaffiliated third party financial institutions, including distribution through Bank of America and its affiliates, and also through the Advice & Wealth Management segment, and institutional products and services are primarily sold through our institutional sales force. International retail products are primarily distributed through third parties. Retail products include mutual funds, variable product funds underlying insurance and annuity separate accounts, separately managed accounts and collective funds. Institutional asset management services are designed to meet specific client objectives and may involve a range of products including those that focus on traditional asset classes, separate accounts, individually managed accounts, collateralized loan obligations, hedge funds and property funds. Revenues in this segment are primarily earned as fees based on managed asset balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. In addition to the products and services provided to third party clients, management teams serving our Asset Management segment provide all intercompany asset management services. The fees for all such services are reflected within the Asset Management segment results through intersegment transfer pricing. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by the Advice & Wealth Management, Annuities and Protection segments. On April 30, 2010, we completed the acquisition of the long term asset management business of the Columbia Management Group from Bank of America. The acquisition significantly enhanced the capabilities of the Asset Management segment by increasing its scale, broadening its retail and institutional distribution capabilities and strengthening and diversifying its lineup of retail and institutional products. The integration of the Columbia Management business, which is ongoing and is expected to be completed in 2011, has involved organizational changes to our portfolio management and analytical teams and to our operational, compliance, sales and marketing support staffs. This integration has also involved the streamlining of our U.S. domestic product offerings, a process that is ongoing. As a result of the integration, we combined RiverSource Investments, our legacy U.S. asset management business, with Columbia Management, under the Columbia brand. Total U.S. assets and number of funds under the Columbia brand as of December 31, 2010 were $218.5 billion and 255 funds, respectively. 57 Table of Contents Threadneedle will remain our primary international investment management platform. Threadneedle manages four Open Ended Investment Companies ("OEICs") and one Societe dInvestissement A Capital Variable ("SICAV") offering. The four OEICs are Threadneedle Investment Funds ICVC ("TIF"), Threadneedle Specialist Investment Funds ICVC ("TSIF"), Threadneedle Focus Investment Funds ("TFIF") and Threadneedle Advantage Portfolio Funds ("TPAF"). TIF, TSIF, TFIF and TPAF are structured as umbrella companies with a total of 52 (33, 14, 2 and 3, respectively) sub funds covering the worlds bond and equity markets. The SICAV is the Threadneedle (Lux) SICAV ("T(Lux)"). T(Lux) is structured as an umbrella company with a total of 29 sub funds covering the worlds bond, commodities and equity markets. In addition, Threadneedle manages 13 unit trusts, 10 of which invest into the OEICs, 6 property unit trusts and 1 property fund of funds. The following table presents the mutual fund performance of our retail Columbia and Threadneedle funds: December 31, 2010 2009 Mutual Fund Performance Columbia Equal Weighted Mutual Fund Rankings in top 2 Lipper Quartiles(1) Equity 12 month 68 % 51 % Fixed income 12 month 58 % 65 % Equity 3 year 52 % 42 % Fixed income 3 year 79 % 72 % Equity 5 year 67 % 63 % Fixed income 5 year 76 % 58 % Asset Weighted Mutual Fund Rankings in top 2 Lipper Quartiles(2) Equity 12 month 62 % 72 % Fixed income 12 month 61 % 80 % Equity 3 year 73 % 50 % Fixed income 3 year 67 % 63 % Equity 5 year 78 % 69 % Fixed income 5 year 63 % 58 % Threadneedle Equal Weighted Mutual Fund Rankings in top 2 Morningstar Quartiles(1) Equity 12 month 77 % 38 % Fixed income 12 month 40 % 60 % Equity 3 year 79 % 90 % Fixed income 3 year 50 % 80 % Equity 5 year 93 % 89 % Fixed income 5 year 50 % 78 % (1)Equal Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Counts the number of funds (RiverSource Class A and Columbia Class Z) with above median ranking divided by the total number of funds. Asset size is not a factor. (2)Asset Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Sums the assets of the funds with above median ranking (RiverSource Class A and Columbia Class Z) divided by the total sum of RiverSource Class A assets and Columbia Class Z assets. Funds with more assets will receive a greater share of the total percentage above or below median. Beginning in the second quarter of 2010, mutual fund performance rankings are based on the performance of Class A fund shares for legacy RiverSource (including Seligman and Threadneedle) branded funds and on Class Z fund shares for legacy Columbia branded funds, as the majority of fund assets managed within the funds of each fund family are generally held in the designated share class. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, the mutual fund performance rankings were based solely on the performance of the legacy RiverSource Class A fund shares. Aggregated data show only actively managed mutual funds by affiliated investment managers. Aggregated data do not include mutual funds sub advised by advisors not affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc., RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund and Columbia Money Market Fund. Aggregated equity rankings include Columbia Portfolio Builder Series and other balanced and asset allocation funds that invest in both equities and fixed income securities. Columbia Portfolio Builder Series funds are funds of mutual funds that may invest in third party sub advised funds. We also offer Separately Managed Accounts, Individually Managed Accounts, management of Institutional Owned Assets, management of collateralized debt obligations, sub advisory services for certain Columbia and Threadneedle mutual funds, hedge funds and RiverSource Trust Collective Funds and separate accounts for Ameriprise Trust Company clients. 58  Table of Contents The following tables present the changes in Columbia (formerly RiverSource Investments branded funds) and Threadneedle managed assets: December 31, 2009 Net Flows Market Appreciation/ (Depreciation) & Other Foreign Exchange December 31, 2010 (in billions) Columbia Managed Assets:(1) Retail Funds $ 76.9 $ (7.4 ) $ 149.0 (2) $ $ 218.5 Institutional Funds 62.3 (7.1 ) 72.0 (3) 127.2 Alternative Funds 9.9 0.1 10.0 Less: Eliminations (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.2 ) Total Columbia Managed Assets 149.0 (14.5 ) 221.0 355.5 Threadneedle Managed Assets: Retail Funds 29.1 1.7 3.7 (1.1 ) 33.4 Institutional Funds 66.8 (2.1 ) 8.6 (2.4 ) 70.9 Alternative Funds 1.9 (0.2 ) (0.4 ) 1.3 Total Threadneedle Managed Assets 97.8 (0.6 ) 11.9 (3.5 ) 105.6 Less: Sub Advised Eliminations (3.6 ) (0.7 ) (4.3 ) Total Managed Assets $ 243.2 $ (15.1 ) $ 232.2 $ (3.5 ) $ 456.8 (1)Prior to the Columbia Management Acquisition, the domestic managed assets of our Asset Management segment, which are now included in Columbia Managed Assets, were managed by RiverSource Investments. (2)Included in Market appreciation and other is $118.1 billion due to the Columbia Management Acquisition, including $3 billion of assets that were transferred to RiverSource Sub advised through the implementation of the Portfolio Navigator program, and an additional $13.1 billion of Portfolio Navigator related assets sub advised by others. (3)Included in Market appreciation and other is $68.4 billion due to the Columbia Management Acquisition. December 31, 2008 Net Flows Market Appreciation/ (Depreciation) & Other Foreign Exchange December 31, 2009 (in billions) Columbia Managed Assets:(1) Retail Funds $ 63.9 $ (2.4 ) $ 15.4 $ $ 76.9 Institutional Funds 54.7 2.6 5.0 62.3 Alternative Funds 9.4 (0.1 ) 0.6 9.9 Less: Eliminations (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Total Columbia Managed Assets 127.9 0.1 21.0 149.0 Threadneedle Managed Assets: Retail Funds 16.3 4.8 6.2 (2) 1.8 29.1 Institutional Funds 55.3 (1.4 ) 7.5 5.4 66.8 Alternative Funds 2.6 0.1 (1.0 ) 0.2 1.9 Total Threadneedle Managed Assets 74.2 3.5 12.7 7.4 97.8 Less: Sub Advised Eliminations (2.5 ) (1.1 ) (3.6 ) Total Managed Assets $ 199.6 $ 3.6 $ 32.6 $ 7.4 $ 243.2 (1)Prior to the Columbia Management Acquisition, the domestic managed assets of our Asset Management segment, which are now included in Columbia Managed Assets, were managed by RiverSource Investments. (2)Included in Market appreciation (depreciation) and other are assets due to the addition of Standard Chartered Banks World Express Funds investment business. Columbia assets under management were $355.5 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to $149.0 billion a year ago, driven by the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation, partially offset by net outflows. Equity and fixed income investment performance remained strong across one , three and five year periods. Retail net outflows of $7.4 billion in 2010 were primarily in equity and subadvisory portfolios, reflecting industry wide outflows in equities and lower retail sales as a result of pending fund mergers. Institutional net outflows of $7.1 billion in 2010 were primarily in lower basis point fixed income portfolios. Threadneedle assets under management were $105.6 billion at December 31, 2010, up 8% from a year ago reflecting year over year market appreciation and retail net inflows, partially offset by negative foreign currency translation and institutional net outflows. Total net outflows of $0.6 billion in 2010 reflected net outflows in lower basis point institutional portfolios, partially offset by retail net inflows from higher sales from European investors. Institutional net outflows in 2010 59 Table of Contents primarily reflected continued outflows in Zurich related portfolios. Investment track records remained strong across one , three and five year periods. Management believes that operating measures, which exclude net realized gains or losses and integration charges for our Asset Management segment, best reflect the underlying performance of our 2010 and 2009 core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. See our discussion on the use of these non GAAP measures in the Overview section above. The following table presents the results of operations of our Asset Management segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,979 $ $ 1,979 $ 1,106 $ $ 1,106 $ 873 79 % Distribution fees 358 358 216 216 142 66 Net investment income 17 3 14 18 (3 ) 21 (7 ) (33 ) Other revenues 15 15 8 8 7 88 Total revenues 2,369 3 2,366 1,348 (3 ) 1,351 1,015 75 Banking and deposit interest expense 1 1 2 2 (1 ) (50 ) Total net revenues 2,368 3 2,365 1,346 (3 ) 1,349 1,016 75 Expenses Distribution expenses 734 734 371 371 363 98 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 20 20 21 21 (1 ) (5 ) General and administrative expense 1,296 95 1,201 894 30 864 337 39 Total expenses 2,050 95 1,955 1,286 30 1,256 699 56 % Pretax income $ 318 $ (92 ) $ 410 $ 60 $ (33 ) $ 93 $ 317 NM NM Not Meaningful. (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses and integration charges. Our Asset Management segment pretax income was $318 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $60 million for the prior year. Our Asset Management segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses and integration charges, was $410 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $93 million for the prior year reflecting eight months of earnings from business acquired in the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation. Pretax margin for 2010 was 13.4% and operating pretax margin was 17.3%. Net Revenues Net revenues increased $1.0 billion, or 76%, to $2.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.3 billion for the prior year driven by an increase in asset based management fees and distribution fees due to growth in assets from the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation. Management and financial advice fees increased $873 million, or 79%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year primarily due to growth in assets from the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation, partially offset by lower hedge fund performance fees. The daily average S&P 500 Index increased 20% compared to the prior year. Total Asset Management managed assets increased $213.7 billion, or 88%, to $456.8 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year primarily due to the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation, partially offset by net outflows. Distribution fees increased $142 million, or 66%, to $358 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $216 million for the prior year primarily driven by growth in assets from the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation. Expenses Total expenses increased $764 million, or 59%, to $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.3 billion for the prior year. Operating expenses, which exclude integration charges, increased $699 million, or 56%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.3 billion for the prior year due to an increase in 60 Table of Contents distribution expenses and general and administrative expense. We realized integration gross expense synergies related to the Columbia Management Acquisition of approximately $75 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Distribution expenses increased $363 million, or 98%, to $734 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $371 million for the prior year primarily due to growth in assets from the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation. General and administrative expense increased $402 million, or 45%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $894 million for the prior year. Integration charges increased $65 million to $95 million in 2010 compared to $30 million in the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense, which excludes integration charges, increased $337 million, or 39%, to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $864 million for the prior year primarily due to increased operating costs of Columbia Management, as well as higher performance based compensation partially offset by lower legal expenses and lower hedge fund performance compensation. Annuities Our Annuities segment provides variable and fixed annuity products of RiverSource Life companies to retail clients. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2010, our variable annuity products were distributed through affiliated advisors as well as unaffiliated advisors through third party distribution. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we discontinued new sales of our variable annuities in non Ameriprise channels to further strengthen the risk and return characteristics of the business. Our fixed annuity products are distributed through affiliated advisors as well as unaffiliated advisors through third party distribution. Revenues for our variable annuity products are primarily earned as fees based on underlying account balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. Revenues for our fixed annuity products are primarily earned as net investment income on assets supporting fixed account balances, with profitability significantly impacted by the spread between net investment income earned and interest credited on the fixed account balances. We also earn net investment income on owned assets supporting reserves for immediate annuities and for certain guaranteed benefits offered with variable annuities and on capital supporting the business. Intersegment revenues for this segment reflect fees paid by the Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource Variable Series Trust, Columbia Funds Variable Insurance Trust, Columbia Funds Variable Insurance Trust I and Wanger Advisors Trust funds under the variable annuity contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by the Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by the Asset Management segment. Management believes that operating measures, which exclude net realized gains or losses for our Annuities segment, best reflect the underlying performance of our 2010 and 2009 core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. See our discussion on the use of these non GAAP measures in the Overview section above. 61 Table of Contents The following table presents the results of operations of our Annuities segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 546 $ $ 546 $ 438 $ $ 438 $ 108 25 % Distribution fees 284 284 247 247 37 15 Net investment income 1,318 9 1,309 1,323 44 1,279 30 2 Premiums 150 150 104 104 46 44 Other revenues 202 202 153 153 49 32 Total revenues 2,500 9 2,491 2,265 44 2,221 270 12 Banking and deposit interest expense Total net revenues 2,500 9 2,491 2,265 44 2,221 270 12 Expenses Distribution expenses 268 268 211 211 57 27 Interest credited to fixed accounts 762 762 759 759 3 Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 691 691 418 418 273 65 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs (76 ) (76 ) 37 37 (113 ) NM Interest and debt expense 2 2 2 NM General and administrative expense 205 205 192 192 13 7 Total expenses 1,852 1,852 1,617 1,617 235 15 Pretax income $ 648 $ 9 $ 639 $ 648 $ 44 $ 604 $ 35 6 % NM Not Meaningful. (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses. Our Annuities segment pretax income was $648 million for both 2010 and 2009. Our Annuities segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, increased $35 million, or 6%, to $639 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $604 million in the prior year. Net Revenues Net revenues increased $235 million, or 10%, to $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.3 billion for the prior year. Operating net revenues, which exclude net realized gains or losses, increased $270 million, or 12%, to $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.2 billion for the prior year reflecting increased management fees from higher separate account balances, increased premiums from immediate annuities with life contingencies and higher fees from variable annuity guarantees. Management and financial advice fees increased $108 million, or 25%, to $546 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $438 million for the prior year due to higher fees on variable annuities driven by higher separate account balances. Average variable annuities contract accumulation values increased $10.3 billion, or 25%, from the prior year due to higher equity market levels and net inflows. Variable annuity net inflows during 2010 were $1.2 billion driven by our introduction in the third quarter of a new variable annuity in the Ameriprise channel, RAVA 5, and an updated guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit rider in the Ameriprise and third party channels. Distribution fees increased $37 million, or 15%, to $284 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $247 million for the prior year primarily due to higher fees on variable annuities driven by higher separate account balances. Net investment income decreased $5 million to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating net investment income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, increased $30 million, or 2%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily driven by higher fixed annuity account balances and higher investment yields, partially offset by the negative impact of the implementation of changes to the PN program. With these changes, assets of clients participating in the PN program were reallocated, pursuant to their consent. This reallocation in part resulted in a shift of assets from interest bearing investments in the general account into separate accounts. Premiums increased $46 million, or 44%, to $150 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $104 million for the prior year due to higher sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies. 62 Table of Contents Other revenues increased $49 million, or 32%, to $202 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $153 million for the prior year due to higher fees from variable annuity guarantees. Expenses Total expenses increased $235 million, or 15%, to $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.6 billion for the prior year primarily due to an increase in distribution expenses and benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses partially offset by a decrease in amortization of DAC. Distribution expenses increased $57 million, or 27%, to $268 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $211 million for the prior year primarily due to higher variable annuity compensation. Interest credited to fixed accounts increased $3 million to $762 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $759 million for the prior year due to higher average fixed annuity account balances partially offset by a lower average crediting rate on interest sensitive fixed annuities. Average fixed annuities contract accumulation values increased $600 million, or 4%, to $14.5 billion for 2010 compared to the prior year. The average fixed annuity crediting rate excluding capitalized interest decreased to 3.8% in 2010 compared to 3.9% in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $273 million, or 65%, to $691 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $418 million for the prior year primarily driven by the impact of updating valuation assumptions and model changes partially offset by the market impact of variable annuity guaranteed benefits, net of hedges and DSIC. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2010 included an expense of $205 million from updating valuation assumptions and model changes compared to a benefit of $47 million in the prior year. The market impact of variable annuity guaranteed benefits, net of hedges and DSIC, increased benefits expense by $59 million in 2010 compared to an increase of $148 million in the prior year. The market impact in both periods was primarily driven by the impact of nonperformance credit spread on the valuation of living benefit liabilities, which we do not hedge. The market impact to DSIC was a benefit of $3 million in 2010 compared to a benefit of $4 million in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses related to our immediate annuities with life contingencies increased compared to the prior year primarily due to higher premiums. In addition, benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased as a result of the implementation of changes to the PN program in the second quarter of 2010. Amortization of DAC decreased $113 million to a benefit of $76 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to an expense of $37 million in the prior year primarily due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions and model changes partially offset by the impact of markets. Amortization of DAC in 2010 included a benefit of $336 million from updating valuation assumptions and model changes compared to a benefit of $64 million in the prior year. DAC amortization in 2010 included a benefit of $25 million due to market impacts, including a $4 million benefit offsetting higher variable annuity guaranteed benefit expenses. DAC amortization in 2009 included a benefit of $136 million due to market impacts, including a $113 million benefit offsetting higher variable annuity guaranteed benefit expenses. An increase in DAC amortization related to higher variable annuity gross profits was partially offset by a decrease as a result of the implementation of changes to the PN program in the second quarter of 2010. General and administrative expense increased $13 million, or 7%, to $205 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $192 million for the prior year primarily driven by additional expenses related to new product introductions and enhancements. Protection Our Protection segment offers a variety of protection products to address the protection and risk management needs of our retail clients including life, disability income and property casualty insurance. Life and disability income products are primarily distributed through our branded advisors. Our property casualty products are sold direct, primarily through affinity relationships. We issue insurance policies through our life insurance subsidiaries and the property casualty companies. The primary sources of revenues for this segment are premiums, fees, and charges we receive to assume insurance related risk. We earn net investment income on owned assets supporting insurance reserves and capital supporting the business. We also receive fees based on the level of assets supporting variable universal life separate account balances. This segment earns intersegment revenues from fees paid by the Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource Variable Series Trust, Columbia Funds Variable Insurance Trust, Columbia Funds Variable Insurance Trust I and Wanger Advisors Trust funds under the variable universal life contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by the Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by the Asset Management segment. Management believes that operating measures, which exclude net realized gains or losses for our Protection segment, best reflect the underlying performance of our 2010 and 2009 core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. See our discussion on the use of these non GAAP measures in the Overview section above. 63 Table of Contents The following table presents the results of operations of our Protection segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 54 $ $ 54 $ 47 $ $ 47 $ 7 15 % Distribution fees 96 96 97 97 (1 ) (1 ) Net investment income 429 1 428 422 27 395 33 8 Premiums 1,055 1,055 1,020 1,020 35 3 Other revenues 422 422 386 386 36 9 Total revenues 2,056 1 2,055 1,972 27 1,945 110 6 Banking and deposit interest expense 1 1 1 1 Total net revenues 2,055 1 2,054 1,971 27 1,944 110 6 Expenses Distribution expenses 32 32 22 22 10 45 Interest credited to fixed accounts 147 147 144 144 3 2 Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 1,066 1,066 924 924 142 15 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 183 183 159 159 24 15 General and administrative expense 223 223 226 226 (3 ) (1 ) Total expenses 1,651 1,651 1,475 1,475 176 12 Pretax income $ 404 $ 1 $ 403 $ 496 $ 27 $ 469 $ (66 ) (14 )% (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses. Our Protection segment pretax income was $404 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $92 million, or 19%, from $496 million for the prior year. Our Protection segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, was $403 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $66 million, or 14%, from $469 million for the prior year. Net Revenues Net revenues increased $84 million, or 4%, to $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.0 billion for the prior year. Operating net revenues, which exclude net realized gains or losses, increased $110 million, or 6%, to $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.9 billion for the prior year primarily due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions and model changes and an increase in net investment income and premiums. Management and financial advice fees increased $7 million, or 15%, to $54 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $47 million for the prior year primarily due to higher management fees from VUL separate account growth due to market appreciation. Net investment income increased $7 million, or 2%, to $429 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $422 million for the prior year. Operating net investment income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, increased $33 million, or 8%, to $428 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $395 million for the prior year primarily due to higher investment yields and increased general account assets. Premiums increased $35 million, or 3%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.0 billion for the prior year due to growth in Auto and Home premiums driven by higher volumes. Auto and Home policy counts increased 9% period over period. Other revenues increased $36 million, or 9%, to $422 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $386 million for the prior year primarily due to updating valuation assumptions and model changes. Other revenues in 2010 included a charge of $20 million from updating valuation assumptions and model changes compared to a charge of $65 million in the prior year. 64 Table of Contents Expenses Total expenses increased $176 million, or 12%, to $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.5 billion for the prior year primarily due to updating valuation assumptions and model changes and an increase in insurance claims compared to the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $142 million, or 15%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $924 million for the prior year primarily due to updating valuation assumptions and model changes and higher claims in 2010. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2010 included an expense of $44 million from updating valuation assumptions and model changes compared to a benefit of $33 million in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses related to our Auto and Home business increased compared to the prior year primarily due to higher business volumes and higher claims driven by $11 million in catastrophe losses from a hail storm in the Phoenix area and a $16 million reserve increase for higher auto liability claims. In addition, benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2010 included higher disability income and long term care insurance claims and higher reserves for universal life products with secondary guarantees compared to the prior year. Amortization of DAC increased $24 million, or 15%, to $183 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $159 million in the prior year primarily due to updating valuation assumptions and model changes. Amortization of DAC for 2010 included a benefit of $22 million from updating valuation assumptions and model changes compared to a benefit of $55 million in the prior year. The market impact on DAC resulted in a benefit of $10 million in 2010 compared to a benefit of $3 million in the prior year. Corporate & Other Our Corporate & Other segment consists of net investment income on corporate level assets, including excess capital held in our subsidiaries and other unallocated equity and other revenues from various investments as well as unallocated corporate expenses. The Corporate & Other segment also includes revenues and expenses of CIEs. Management believes that operating measures, which exclude net realized gains or losses, integration and restructuring charges and the impact of consolidating CIEs for our Corporate & Other segment, best reflect the underlying performance of our 2010 and 2009 core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. See our discussion on the use of these non GAAP measures in the Overview section above. The following table presents the results of operations of our Corporate & Other segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Net investment income (loss) $ 273 $ 294 $ (21 ) $ (57 ) $ 2 $ (59 ) $ 38 64 % Other revenues 153 125 28 90 28 62 (34 ) (55 ) Total revenues 426 419 7 33 30 3 4 NM Banking and deposit interest expense 3 3 7 6 1 2 NM Total net revenues 423 419 4 26 24 2 2 100 Expenses Distribution expenses 1 1 3 3 (2 ) (67 ) Interest and debt expense 288 181 107 127 127 (20 ) (16 ) General and administrative expense 211 65 146 146 13 133 13 10 Total expenses 500 246 254 276 13 263 (9 ) (3 ) Pretax loss (77 ) 173 (250 ) (250 ) 11 (261 ) 11 4 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 163 163 15 15 Pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ (240 ) $ 10 $ (250 ) $ (265 ) $ (4 ) $ (261 ) $ 11 4 % NM Not Meaningful. (1)Includes revenues and expenses of the CIEs, net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. 65 Table of Contents The following table presents the components of the adjustments in the table above: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments (in millions) Revenues Net investment income $ 275 $ 19 $ 294 $ 2 $ $ 2 Other revenues 125 125 28 28 Total revenues 400 19 419 30 30 Banking and deposit interest expense 6 6 Total net revenues 400 19 419 24 24 Expenses Distribution expenses Interest and debt expense 181 181 General and administrative expense 56 9 65 9 4 13 Total expenses 237 9 246 9 4 13 Pretax income (loss) 163 10 173 15 (4 ) 11 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 163 163 15 15 Pretax income (loss) attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ $ 10 $ 10 $ $ (4 ) $ (4 ) (1)Other adjustments include net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial was $240 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $265 million in the prior year. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax operating loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial excludes net realized gains or losses, integration and restructuring charges and the impact of consolidating CIEs. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax operating loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial was $250 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $261 million in the prior year. Net revenues increased $397 million to $423 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $26 million for the prior year primarily reflecting revenues of CIEs. Operating net revenues, which exclude revenues of CIEs and net realized gains or losses, increased $2 million to $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Net investment income was $273 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $57 million in the prior year. Net investment income in 2010 primarily reflects changes in the assets and liabilities of CIEs, primarily debt and underlying syndicated loans. The decrease in operating net investment loss, which excludes revenues of CIEs and net realized gains or losses, reflects lower transfer priced interest income allocated to the Annuities and Protection segments for maintaining excess liquidity. Other revenues increased $63 million, or 70%, to $153 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily due to an increase in revenues of consolidated property funds. Operating other revenues, which exclude revenues of consolidated property funds, decreased $34 million, or 55%, to $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, due to a $58 million gain on the repurchase of certain of our junior notes in 2009 partially offset by a $25 million benefit from the payments related to the Reserve Funds matter in 2010. Total expenses increased $224 million, or 81%, to $500 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $276 million for the prior year primarily reflecting expenses of CIEs. Operating expenses, which exclude expenses of CIEs and integration and restructuring charges, decreased $9 million, or 3%, to $254 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $263 million for the prior year. Interest and debt expense increased $161 million to $288 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $127 million for the prior year primarily reflecting interest expense of the CIE debt. Operating interest and debt expense, which excludes interest expense of the CIE debt, decreased $20 million, or 16%, to $107 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $127 million for the prior year primarily due to an expense of $13 million in 2009 related to the early retirement of $450 million of our senior notes due 2010. General and administrative expense increased $65 million, or 45%, to $211 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $146 million for the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense, which excludes expenses of the CIEs and integration and restructuring charges, increased $13 million, or 10%, to $146 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $133 million for the prior year. 66  Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 The following table presents our consolidated results of operations: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 2,704 $ (2 ) $ 2,706 $ 2,899 $ (2 ) $ 2,901 $ (195 ) (7 )% Distribution fees 1,420 1,420 1,565 1,565 (145 ) (9 ) Net investment income 2,002 55 1,947 817 (777 ) 1,594 353 22 Premiums 1,098 1,098 1,048 1,048 50 5 Other revenues 722 28 694 768 (46 ) 814 (120 ) (15 ) Total revenues 7,946 81 7,865 7,097 (825 ) 7,922 (57 ) (1 ) Banking and deposit interest expense 141 6 135 179 1 178 (43 ) (24 ) Total net revenues 7,805 75 7,730 6,918 (826 ) 7,744 (14 ) Expenses Distribution expenses 1,782 1,782 1,912 1,912 (130 ) (7 ) Interest credited to fixed accounts 903 903 790 790 113 14 Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 1,342 1,342 1,125 1,125 217 19 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 217 217 933 933 (716 ) (77 ) Interest and debt expense 127 127 109 109 18 17 General and administrative expense 2,514 105 2,409 2,472 84 2,388 21 1 Total expenses 6,885 105 6,780 7,341 84 7,257 (477 ) (7 ) Pretax income (loss) 920 (30 ) 950 (423 ) (910 ) 487 463 95 Income tax provision (benefit) 183 (15 ) 198 (333 ) (300 ) (33 ) 231 NM Net income (loss) 737 (15 ) 752 (90 ) (610 ) 520 232 45 Less: Net income (loss) attributable to non controlling interests 15 15 (54 ) (54 ) Net income (loss) attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ 722 $ (30 ) $ 752 $ (36 ) $ (556 ) $ 520 $ 232 45 % NM Not Meaningful. (1)Includes the elimination of management fees we earn for services provided to the CIEs and the related expense, revenues and expenses of the CIEs, net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. Income tax provision is calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35% on applicable adjustments. 67 Table of Contents The following table presents the components of the adjustments in the table above: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ (2 ) $ $ (2 ) $ (2 ) $ $ (2 ) Distribution fees Net investment income 2 53 55 (777 ) (777 ) Premiums Other revenues 28 28 (46 ) (46 ) Total revenues 28 53 81 (48 ) (777 ) (825 ) Banking and deposit interest expense 6 6 1 1 Total net revenues 22 53 75 (49 ) (777 ) (826 ) Expenses Distribution expenses Interest credited to fixed accounts Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses Amortization of deferred acquisition costs Interest and debt expense General and administrative expense 7 98 105 5 79 84 Total expenses 7 98 105 5 79 84 Pretax income (loss) 15 (45 ) (30 ) (54 ) (856 ) (910 ) Income tax benefit (15 ) (15 ) (300 ) (300 ) Net income (loss) 15 (30 ) (15 ) (54 ) (556 ) (610 ) Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 15 15 (54 ) (54 ) Net loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ $ (30 ) $ (30 ) $ $ (556 ) $ (556 ) (1)Other adjustments include net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. Overall Net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $722 million compared to a net loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial of $36 million for the prior year. Operating net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial, which includes the fees we earn from services provided to the CIEs and excludes revenues and expenses of the CIEs, net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges, was $752 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $520 million for the prior year. Operating results for 2009 reflect the impacts from a 22% decline in the daily average S&P 500 Index on a period over period basis, lower short term interest rates and lower client activity, offset by growth in spread products, net inflows in wrap accounts and Asset Management and expense controls. Operating results for 2008 were impacted by market dislocation, money market support costs and an increase in DAC and DSIC amortization. Our annual review of valuation assumptions for RiverSource Life products in the third quarter of 2009 resulted in a net pretax benefit of $134 million, consisting of a decrease in expenses primarily from updating product mortality assumptions for certain life insurance products and from the impact of updating product spreads and expense assumptions, partially offset by a decrease in revenues related to the reinsurance impacts from updating product mortality assumptions. Third quarter 2008 results included a $106 million pretax benefit resulting from our review of valuation assumptions and our conversion to a new industry standard valuation system that provides enhanced modeling capabilities. The review of valuation assumptions in the third quarter of 2008 resulted in a decrease in expenses primarily from updating mortality and expense assumptions for certain life insurance products and from updating fund mix and policyholder behavior assumptions for variable annuities with guaranteed benefits. The valuation system conversion also resulted in an increase in revenue primarily from improved modeling of the expected value of existing reinsurance agreements and a decrease in expense from modeling annuity amortization periods at the individual policy level. 68 Table of Contents The total pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009 attributable to the review of valuation assumptions for RiverSource Life products were as follows: Segment Pretax Benefit (Charge) Other Revenues Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Amortization of DAC Total (in millions) Valuation assumptions: Annuities $ $ 47 $ 64 $ 111 Protection (65 ) 33 55 23 Total $ (65 ) $ 80 $ 119 $ 134 The total pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 attributable to the review of valuation assumptions for RiverSource Life products and the valuation system conversion were as follows: Segment Pretax Benefit (Charge) Premiums Other Revenues Distribution Expenses Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Amortization of DAC Total (in millions) Valuation assumptions and valuation system conversion: Annuities $ $ $ 1 $ 46 $ 9 $ 56 Protection 2 95 43 (90 ) 50 Total $ 2 $ 95 $ 1 $ 89 $ (81 ) $ 106 Net revenues Net revenues increased $887 million, or 13%, to $7.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $6.9 billion for the prior year. Operating net revenues exclude net realized gains or losses and revenues of the CIEs and include the fees we earn from services provided to the CIEs. Operating net revenues decreased $14 million to $7.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 driven by a decrease in management and financial advice fees and distribution fees due to lower average asset levels attributable to the decline in equity markets and a decrease in other revenues due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions, partially offset by an increase in net investment income, as well as revenues resulting from our 2008 acquisitions, an increase in premiums and lower banking and deposit interest expense. Management and financial advice fees decreased $195 million, or 7%, to $2.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $2.9 billion for the prior year driven by a 22% decline in the daily average S&P 500 Index on a period over period basis, as well as the negative impact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by strong hedge fund performance and net inflows. Wrap account assets increased $22.1 billion, or 30%, compared to the prior year due to market appreciation and net flows. Total Asset Management account assets increased $43.6 billion, or 22%, compared to the prior year due to market appreciation, as well as net inflows and the positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Distribution fees decreased $145 million, or 9%, to $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1.6 billion in the prior year primarily due to lower client activity levels and lower asset based fees driven by lower equity markets, partially offset by revenues resulting from our 2008 acquisitions. Net investment income increased $1.2 billion to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $817 million in the prior year. Net investment income in 2009 included $53 million in net realized investment gains compared to net realized investment losses of $777 million in 2008. In 2009, net realized gains from sales of Available for Sale securities were $163 million and other than temporary impairments recognized in earnings were $93 million, which related to credit losses on non agency residential mortgage backed securities, corporate debt securities primarily in the gaming, banking and finance industries and other structured investments. In 2008, net realized gains from sales of Available for Sale securities were $5 million and other than temporary impairments recognized in earnings were $762 million, which related to losses on non agency residential mortgage backed securities, corporate debt securities primarily in the financial services and gaming industries and asset backed and other securities. Operating net investment income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, increased $353 million, or 22%, to $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1.6 billion in the prior year primarily due to an increase of $273 million in investment income earned on fixed maturity securities driven by higher invested asset levels primarily from spread product net inflows and higher yields on the longer term fixed income investments in our investment portfolio. Premiums increased $50 million, or 5%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1.0 billion in the prior year primarily due to growth in Auto and Home premiums compared to the prior year driven by higher volumes, 69 Table of Contents as well as higher sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies. Auto and Home policy counts increased 9% period over period. Other revenues decreased $46 million, or 6%, to $722 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $768 million in the prior year. Operating other revenues exclude revenues of consolidated property funds. Operating other revenues decreased $120 million, or 15%, to $694 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $814 million in the prior year due to a $65 million negative impact from updating valuation assumptions in the third quarter of 2009 compared to a $95 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system for RiverSource Life products in the third quarter of 2008. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in our guaranteed benefit rider fees on variable annuities and a $58 million gain in 2009 on the repurchase of certain of our junior notes compared to $19 million in 2008. Other revenues in 2008 included $36 million from the sale of certain operating assets. Banking and deposit interest expense decreased $38 million, or 21%, to $141 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $179 million in the prior year primarily due to lower crediting rates on certificates and banking deposit products. Expenses Total expenses decreased $456 million, or 6%, to $6.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $7.3 billion in the prior year. Operating expenses exclude integration and restructuring charges and expenses of the CIEs. Total operating expenses decreased $477 million, or 7%, to $6.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $7.3 billion in the prior year. The decrease in operating expenses was primarily due to a decrease in distribution expenses, the impact of updating valuation assumptions, the impact of market performance on amortization of DAC and DSIC and expense controls, partially offset by ongoing expenses related to our 2008 acquisitions, higher performance based compensation and higher interest credited to fixed accounts compared to the prior year. Distribution expenses decreased $130 million, or 7%, to $1.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1.9 billion in the prior year reflecting lower equity markets and client activity levels, partially offset by expenses resulting from our 2008 acquisitions. Interest credited to fixed accounts increased $113 million, or 14%, to $903 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $790 million in the prior year, primarily due to higher average fixed annuity account balances and higher average fixed annuity crediting rates compared to the prior year. Average fixed annuities contract accumulation values increased $1.9 billion, or 16%, compared to the prior year. The average fixed annuity crediting rate excluding capitalized interest increased to 3.9% in 2009 compared to 3.7% in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $217 million, or 19%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1.1 billion in the prior year driven by an increase in expenses from variable annuity living benefit guarantees. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2009 were impacted by $148 million of market impacts on variable annuity benefit expenses, net of hedges and DSIC, compared to a benefit of $32 million in 2008. The non cash impact of the nonperformance spread on the fair value of living benefit liabilities increased benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2009 compared to a decrease in 2008. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses related to our Auto and Home business increased in 2009 primarily due to higher business volumes. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2009 included a benefit of $80 million from updating valuation assumptions compared to a benefit of $89 million in the prior year from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system. The impact of market performance in 2009 decreased DSIC amortization by $4 million compared to an expense of $41 million in the prior year. Amortization of DAC decreased $716 million, or 77%, to $217 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $933 million in the prior year. DAC amortization in 2009 included a $119 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions in the third quarter of 2009 compared to an expense of $81 million from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system in the prior year. DAC amortization in 2009 was reduced by $139 million due to market impacts, including $113 million offsetting higher variable annuity benefits expenses, net of hedges. DAC amortization in 2008 was increased by $404 million due to market impacts, including a $111 million expense offsetting gains on variable annuity benefits, net of hedges. Interest and debt expense increased $18 million, or 17%, to $127 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $109 million in the prior year primarily due to an expense of $13 million in 2009 related to the early retirement of $450 million of our senior notes due 2010. General and administrative expense increased $42 million, or 2%, to $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Integration and restructuring charges increased $19 million to $98 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $79 million for the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense excludes integration and restructuring charges and expenses of the CIEs. Operating general and administrative expense increased $21 million, or 70 Table of Contents 1%, to $2.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating general and administrative expense in 2009 included ongoing costs resulting from our 2008 acquisitions and increases in hedge fund performance compensation, our performance compensation pool and legal expenses, partially offset by cost controls. Operating general and administrative expense in 2008 included a $77 million expense related to the mark to market of Lehman Brothers securities that we purchased from various 2a 7 money market mutual funds managed by RiverSource Investments, LLC and $36 million in costs related to guaranteeing specific client holdings in an unaffiliated money market mutual fund. The positive impact of foreign currency translation on general and administrative expense in 2009 partially offset the negative impact of foreign currency translation on management and financial advice fees. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate on net income (loss) including net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests was 19.9% for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to 78.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our effective tax rate on net income (loss) excluding net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests was 20.2% for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to 90.2% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 reflects the level of pretax income relative to tax advantaged items and $79 million in tax benefits related to changes in the status of current audits and closed audits, tax planning initiatives, and the finalization of prior year tax returns. Results of Operations by Segment Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 The following table presents summary financial information by segment: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating (in millions) Advice & Wealth Management Net revenues $ 3,216 $ (15 ) $ 3,231 $ 3,110 $ (333 ) $ 3,443 Expenses 3,250 64 3,186 3,259 12 3,247 Pretax income (loss) $ (34 ) $ (79 ) $ 45 $ (149 ) $ (345 ) $ 196 Asset Management Net revenues $ 1,346 $ (3 ) $ 1,349 $ 1,340 $ 1 $ 1,339 Expenses 1,286 30 1,256 1,261 5 1,256 Pretax income $ 60 $ (33 ) $ 93 $ 79 $ (4 ) $ 83 Annuities Net revenues $ 2,265 $ 44 $ 2,221 $ 1,618 $ (350 ) $ 1,968 Expenses 1,617 1,617 1,905 1,905 Pretax income (loss) $ 648 $ 44 $ 604 $ (287 ) $ (350 ) $ 63 Protection Net revenues $ 1,971 $ 27 $ 1,944 $ 1,954 $ (92 ) $ 2,046 Expenses 1,475 1,475 1,602 1,602 Pretax income $ 496 $ 27 $ 469 $ 352 $ (92 ) $ 444 Corporate & Other Net revenues $ 26 $ 24 $ 2 $ (48 ) $ (50 ) $ 2 Expenses 276 13 263 370 69 301 Pretax loss $ (250 ) $ 11 $ (261 ) $ (418 ) $ (119 ) $ (299 ) Less: Pretax income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 15 15 (54 ) (54 ) Pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ (265 ) $ (4 ) $ (261 ) $ (364 ) $ (65 ) $ (299 ) Eliminations Net revenues $ (1,019 ) $ (2 ) $ (1,017 ) $ (1,056 ) $ (2 ) $ (1,054 ) Expenses (1,019 ) (2 ) (1,017 ) (1,056 ) (2 ) (1,054 ) Pretax income $ $ $ $ $ $ (1)Includes the elimination of management fees we earn for services provided to the CIEs and the related expense, revenues and expenses of the CIEs, net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. 71 Table of Contents Advice & Wealth Management The following table presents the changes in wrap account assets: 2009 2008 (in billions) Balance at January 1 $ 72.8 $ 93.9 Net flows 9.3 3.7 Market appreciation/(depreciation) 12.8 (26.8 ) Other 2.0 Balance at December 31 $ 94.9 $ 72.8 Our wrap accounts had net inflows of $9.3 billion in 2009 compared to $3.7 billion in 2008 and market appreciation of $12.8 billion in 2009 compared to market depreciation of $26.8 billion in 2008. In 2008, we acquired $2.0 billion in wrap account assets attributable to our acquisition of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc. As of December 31, 2009, we administered $95.1 billion in assets for clients, an increase of $19.6 billion compared to the prior year primarily due to market appreciation. The following table presents the results of operations of our Advice & Wealth Management segment: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,234 $ $ 1,234 $ 1,339 $ $ 1,339 $ (105 ) (8 )% Distribution fees 1,733 1,733 1,912 1,912 (179 ) (9 ) Net investment income (loss) 297 (15 ) 312 (43 ) (333 ) 290 22 8 Other revenues 85 85 80 80 5 6 Total revenues 3,349 (15 ) 3,364 3,288 (333 ) 3,621 (257 ) (7 ) Banking and deposit interest expense 133 133 178 178 (45 ) (25 ) Total net revenues 3,216 (15 ) 3,231 3,110 (333 ) 3,443 (212 ) (6 ) Expenses Distribution expenses 1,968 1,968 2,121 2,121 (153 ) (7 ) General and administrative expense 1,282 64 1,218 1,138 12 1,126 92 8 Total expenses 3,250 64 3,186 3,259 12 3,247 (61 ) (2 ) Pretax income (loss) $ (34 ) $ (79 ) $ 45 $ (149 ) $ (345 ) $ 196 $ (151 ) (77 )% (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses and integration charges. Our Advice & Wealth Management segment pretax loss was $34 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $149 million in the prior year. Our Advice & Wealth Management segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses and integration charges, was $45 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $196 million in the prior year. Net revenues Net revenues were $3.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $3.1 billion in the prior year, an increase of $106 million, or 3%. Operating net revenues, which exclude net realized gains or losses, decreased $212 million, or 6%, to $3.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, driven by decreases in management and financial advice fees and distribution fees, partially offset by an increase in net investment income as well as revenues resulting from our 2008 acquisitions and a decrease in banking and deposit interest expense. Management and financial advice fees decreased $105 million, or 8%, to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, driven by a 22% decline in the daily average S&P 500 Index on a period over period basis, partially offset by net inflows. Wrap account assets increased $22.1 billion, or 30%, compared to the prior year due to net inflows and market appreciation. Financial planning fees were lower for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the prior year resulting from accelerated financial plan delivery standards in 2008. Distribution fees decreased $179 million, or 9%, to $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to lower client activity levels and lower asset based fees driven by lower equity markets, partially offset by revenues resulting from our 2008 acquisitions. 72 Table of Contents Net investment income increased $340 million to $297 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Net realized investment losses were $15 million in 2009 compared to $333 million in the prior year due to lower impairments recorded on Available for Sale securities. Operating net investment income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, increased $22 million, or 8%, to $312 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to higher investment income on fixed maturity securities driven by higher invested asset levels primarily from spread product net inflows, partially offset by a decline in short term interest rates. Banking and deposit interest expense decreased $45 million, or 25%, to $133 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to lower crediting rates on certificates and banking deposit products. Expenses Total expenses decreased $9 million to $3.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating expenses, which exclude integration charges, decreased $61 million, or 2%, to $3.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to a decrease in distribution expenses partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expense. Distribution expenses decreased $153 million, or 7%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, reflecting lower equity markets and client activity levels, partially offset by expenses resulting from our 2008 acquisitions. General and administrative expense increased $144 million, or 13%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Integration charges were $64 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $12 million for the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense, which excludes integration charges, increased $92 million, or 8%, compared to the prior year primarily due to ongoing expenses from our acquisition of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2008, as well as higher performance compensation accruals and legal expenses. Asset Management The total domestic assets and number of funds managed by our RiverSource family of mutual funds as of December 31, 2009 was $76.9 billion and 132 funds, respectively. 73 Table of Contents The following table presents the mutual fund performance of our retail Domestic and International funds: December 31 2009 2008 Mutual Fund Performance Domestic Equal Weighted Mutual Fund Rankings in top 2 Lipper Quartiles(1) Equity 12 month 51 % 33 % Fixed income 12 month 65 % 70 % Equity 3 year 42 % 50 % Fixed income 3 year 72 % 75 % Equity 5 year 63 % 53 % Fixed income 5 year 58 % 66 % Asset Weighted Mutual Fund Rankings in top 2 Lipper Quartiles(2) Equity 12 month 72 % 26 % Fixed income 12 month 80 % 39 % Equity 3 year 50 % 40 % Fixed income 3 year 63 % 40 % Equity 5 year 69 % 70 % Fixed income 5 year 58 % 37 % International Equal Weighted Mutual Fund Rankings in top 2 S&P Quartiles(1) Equity 12 month 38 % 83 % Fixed income 12 month 60 % 45 % Equity 3 year 90 % 90 % Fixed income 3 year 80 % 64 % Equity 5 year 89 % 89 % Fixed income 5 year 78 % 50 % (1)Equal Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Counts the number of Class A funds with above median ranking divided by the total number of Class A funds. Asset size is not a factor. (2)Asset Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Sums the assets of the Class A funds with above median ranking divided by the total Class A assets. Funds with more assets will receive a greater share of the total percentage above or below median. Aggregated data shows only actively managed mutual funds by affiliated investment managers. Aggregated data does not include mutual funds sub advised by advisors not affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc., RiverSource S&P 500 Index Fund, RiverSource Cash Management Fund and RiverSource Tax Free Money Market Fund. Aggregated equity rankings include RiverSource Portfolio Builder Series and other balanced and asset allocation funds that invest in both equities and fixed income. RiverSource Portfolio Builder Series funds are funds of mutual funds that may invest in third party sub advised funds. The following tables present the changes in Domestic and International managed assets: December 31, 2008 Net Flows Market Appreciation/ (Depreciation) & Other Foreign Exchange December 31, 2009 (in billions) Domestic Managed Assets: Retail Funds $ 63.9 $ (2.4 ) $ 15.4 $ $ 76.9 Institutional Funds 54.7 2.6 5.0 62.3 Alternative Funds 9.4 (0.1 ) 0.6 9.9 Less: Eliminations (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Total Domestic Managed Assets 127.9 0.1 21.0 149.0 International Managed Assets: Retail Funds 16.3 4.8 6.2 (1) 1.8 29.1 Institutional Funds 55.3 (1.4 ) 7.5 5.4 66.8 Alternative Funds 2.6 0.1 (1.0 ) 0.2 1.9 Total International Managed Assets 74.2 3.5 12.7 7.4 97.8 Less: Sub Advised Eliminations (2.5 ) (1.1 ) (3.6 ) Total Managed Assets $ 199.6 $ 3.6 $ 32.6 $ 7.4 $ 243.2 (1)Included in Market appreciation (depreciation) and other are assets due to the addition of Standard Chartered Banks World Express Funds investment business. 74  Table of Contents December 31, 2007 Net Flows Market Appreciation/ (Depreciation) & Other Foreign Exchange December 31, 2008 (in billions) Domestic Managed Assets: Retail Funds $ 86.9 $ (5.4 ) $ (17.6 )(1) $ $ 63.9 Institutional Funds 62.0 (4.8 ) (2.5 )(1) 54.7 Alternative Funds 8.1 (1.2 ) 2.5 (1) 9.4 Less: Eliminations (0.7 ) 0.6 (0.1 ) Total Domestic Managed Assets 156.3 (11.4 ) (17.0 ) 127.9 International Managed Assets: Retail Funds 30.8 (1.9 ) (6.2 ) (6.4 ) 16.3 Institutional Funds 100.1 (13.3 ) (9.8 ) (21.7 ) 55.3 Alternative Funds 3.5 (0.6 ) 0.2 (0.5 ) 2.6 Total International Managed Assets 134.4 (15.8 ) (15.8 ) (28.6 ) 74.2 Less: Sub Advised Eliminations (5.6 ) 3.1 (2.5 ) Total Managed Assets $ 285.1 $ (27.2 ) $ (29.7 ) $ (28.6 ) $ 199.6 (1)Included in Market appreciation (depreciation) and other are assets due to the acquisition of J. & W. Seligman & Co. In 2009, Domestic managed assets had $119 million in net inflows compared to net outflows of $11.4 billion during 2008 and market appreciation and other of $21.0 billion in 2009 compared to market depreciation and other of $17.0 billion in 2008. International managed assets had $3.5 billion in net inflows in 2009 compared to net outflows of $15.8 billion in 2008 and market appreciation and other of $12.7 billion in 2009 compared to market depreciation and other of $15.8 billion in 2008. The positive impact on International managed assets due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates was $7.4 billion in 2009 compared to a negative impact of $28.6 billion in 2008. The following table presents the results of operations of our Asset Management segment: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,106 $ $ 1,106 $ 1,079 $ $ 1,079 $ 27 3 % Distribution fees 216 216 247 247 (31 ) (13 ) Net investment income 18 (3 ) 21 (13 ) 1 (14 ) 35 NM Other revenues 8 8 33 33 (25 ) (76 ) Total revenues 1,348 (3 ) 1,351 1,346 1 1,345 6 Banking and deposit interest expense 2 2 6 6 (4 ) (67 ) Total net revenues 1,346 (3 ) 1,349 1,340 1 1,339 10 1 Expenses Distribution expenses 371 371 417 417 (46 ) (11 ) Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 21 21 24 24 (3 ) (13 ) General and administrative expense 894 30 864 820 5 815 49 6 Total expenses 1,286 30 1,256 1,261 5 1,256 Pretax income $ 60 $ (33 ) $ 93 $ 79 $ (4 ) $ 83 $ 10 12 % NM Not Meaningful. (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses and integration charges. Our Asset Management segment pretax income was $60 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $79 million in the prior year. Our Asset Management segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses and integration charges, was $93 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $83 million for the prior year. Net revenues Net revenues increased $6 million to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating net revenues, which exclude net realized gains or losses, increased $10 million, or 1%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to an increase in management and financial advice fees and net investment income, partially offset by a decline in distribution fees and other revenues. 75 Table of Contents Management and financial advice fees increased $27 million, or 3%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to strong hedge fund performance and net inflows, partially offset by a 22% decline in the daily average S&P 500 Index on a period over period basis, as well as the negative impact of foreign currency translation. Total Asset Management account assets increased $43.6 billion, or 22%, compared to the prior year due to market appreciation, as well as net inflows in International managed assets and the positive impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Distribution fees decreased $31 million, or 13%, to $216 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to lower 12b 1 fees driven by lower average assets. Net investment income was $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to net investment loss of $13 million in the prior year. Operating net investment income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, was $21 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to operating net investment loss of $14 million for the prior year primarily due to losses related to mark to market adjustments on seed money investments in 2008. Other revenues decreased $25 million, or 76%, to $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to revenue from the sale of certain operating assets in 2008. Expenses Total expenses increased $25 million, or 2%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to an increase in general and administrative expense partially offset by a decrease in distribution expenses. Distribution expenses decreased $46 million, or 11%, to $371 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to lower average assets. General and administrative expense increased $74 million, or 9%, to $894 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Integration charges were $30 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $5 million for the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense, which excludes integration charges, increased $49 million, or 6%, to $864 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to ongoing expenses from our acquisition of Seligman in the fourth quarter of 2008 and increases in hedge fund performance compensation, our performance compensation pool and legal expenses, partially offset by expense controls and a positive impact of foreign currency translation. The positive impact of foreign currency translation on general and administrative expense partially offset the negative impact of foreign currency translation on management and financial advice fees. Annuities The following table presents the results of operations of our Annuities segment: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 438 $ $ 438 $ 478 $ $ 478 $ (40 ) (8 )% Distribution fees 247 247 275 275 (28 ) (10 ) Net investment income 1,323 44 1,279 652 (350 ) 1,002 277 28 Premiums 104 104 85 85 19 22 Other revenues 153 153 128 128 25 20 Total revenues 2,265 44 2,221 1,618 (350 ) 1,968 253 13 Banking and deposit interest expense Total net revenues 2,265 44 2,221 1,618 (350 ) 1,968 253 13 Expenses Distribution expenses 211 211 207 207 4 2 Interest credited to fixed accounts 759 759 646 646 113 17 Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 418 418 269 269 149 55 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 37 37 576 576 (539 ) (94 ) General and administrative expense 192 192 207 207 (15 ) (7 ) Total expenses 1,617 1,617 1,905 1,905 (288 ) (15 )% Pretax income (loss) $ 648 $ 44 $ 604 $ (287 ) $ (350 ) $ 63 $ 541 NM NM Not Meaningful. (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses. 76 Table of Contents Our Annuities segment pretax income was $648 million in 2009 compared to pretax loss of $287 million in 2008. Our Annuities segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, was $604 million in 2009 compared to $63 million in 2008. In 2009, RiverSource variable annuities had net inflows of $1.8 billion, and variable annuity contract accumulation values increased $11.8 billion. These changes in variable annuities affected both RiverSource managed owned assets and owned assets. Our fixed annuities had total net inflows of $1.9 billion in 2009 compared to net outflows of $0.7 billion in the prior year, which impacted our RiverSource managed owned assets. Net revenues Net revenues increased $647 million, or 40%, to $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating net revenues, which exclude net realized gains or losses, increased $253 million, or 13%, to $2.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily driven by an increase in net investment income, partially offset by decreases in management and financial advice fees and distribution fees. Management and financial advice fees decreased $40 million, or 8%, to $438 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to lower fees on variable annuities. Average variable annuities contract accumulation values decreased $4.6 billion or 10% from the prior year primarily due to equity market declines, partially offset by net inflows. Distribution fees decreased $28 million, or 10%, to $247 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to lower fees on variable annuities driven by the equity market decline. Net investment income increased $671 million to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Net realized investment gains were $44 million in 2009 compared to net realized investment losses of $350 million in 2008 primarily due to impairments on Available for Sale securities. Operating net investment income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, increased $277 million, or 28%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to an increase in investment income on fixed maturity securities driven by higher invested asset levels primarily due to fixed and variable annuity net inflows and higher yields on the longer term investments in our fixed income investment portfolio. Premiums increased $19 million, or 22%, to $104 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to higher sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies. Other revenues increased $25 million, or 20%, to $153 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to an increase in guaranteed benefit rider fees on variable annuities. Expenses Total expenses decreased $288 million, or 15%, to $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions and the impact of market performance on amortization of DAC and DSIC, partially offset by higher interest credited to fixed accounts compared to the prior year. Distribution expenses increased $4 million, or 2%, to $211 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to higher non deferred distribution related costs driven by higher sales of fixed annuities. Interest credited to fixed accounts increased $113 million, or 17%, to $759 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to higher average fixed annuity account balances and higher average fixed annuity crediting rates compared to the prior year. Average fixed annuities contract accumulation values increased $1.9 billion, or 16%, compared to the prior year. The average fixed annuity crediting rate excluding capitalized interest increased to 3.9% in 2009 compared to 3.7% in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $149 million, or 55%, to $418 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily driven by an increase in expenses from variable annuity living benefit guarantees. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2009 were impacted by $148 million of market impacts on variable annuity benefit expenses, net of hedges and DSIC, compared to a $32 million benefit in 2008. The non cash impact of the nonperformance spread on the fair value of living benefit liabilities increased benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2009 compared to a decrease in 2008. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2009 included a benefit of $47 million from updating valuation assumptions compared to a benefit of $46 million in the prior year from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system. The impact of market performance in 2009 decreased DSIC amortization by $4 million compared to an expense of $41 million in the prior year. Amortization of DAC decreased $539 million, or 94%, to $37 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $576 million in the prior year. DAC amortization in 2009 included a $64 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions in 2009 compared to a $9 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system in the prior year. DAC amortization in 2009 was reduced by $136 million due to market impacts, including $113 million offsetting higher variable annuity benefit expenses. DAC amortization in 2008 was increased by $348 million due to market impacts, including a $111 million expense offsetting gains on variable annuity benefits. 77 Table of Contents General and administrative expense decreased $15 million, or 7%, to $192 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to expense controls. Protection The following table presents the results of operations of our Protection segment: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 47 $ $ 47 $ 56 $ $ 56 $ (9 ) (16 )% Distribution fees 97 97 106 106 (9 ) (8 ) Net investment income 422 27 395 252 (92 ) 344 51 15 Premiums 1,020 1,020 994 994 26 3 Other revenues 386 386 547 547 (161 ) (29 ) Total revenues 1,972 27 1,945 1,955 (92 ) 2,047 (102 ) (5 ) Banking and deposit interest expense 1 1 1 1 Total net revenues 1,971 27 1,944 1,954 (92 ) 2,046 (102 ) (5 ) Expenses Distribution expenses 22 22 18 18 4 22 Interest credited to fixed accounts 144 144 144 144 Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 924 924 856 856 68 8 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 159 159 333 333 (174 ) (52 ) General and administrative expense 226 226 251 251 (25 ) (10 ) Total expenses 1,475 1,475 1,602 1,602 (127 ) (8 ) Pretax income $ 496 $ 27 $ 469 $ 352 $ (92 ) $ 444 $ 25 6 % (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses. Our Protection segment pretax income was $496 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $144 million, or 41%, from $352 million in the prior year. Our Protection segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, was $469 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $444 million in the prior year. Net revenues Net revenues increased $17 million, or 1%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating net revenues, which exclude net realized gains or losses, decreased $102 million, or 5%, to $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to a decrease in other revenues related to updating valuation assumptions, partially offset by an increase in net investment income and premiums. Net investment income increased $170 million, or 67%, to $422 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Net realized investment gains were $27 million in 2009 compared to net realized investment losses of $92 million in 2008 primarily related to impairments of Available for Sale securities. Operating net investment income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, increased $51 million, or 15%, to $395 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to an increase in investment income earned on fixed maturity securities driven by higher yields on the longer term investments in our fixed income investment portfolio. Premiums increased $26 million, or 3%, to $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to growth in Auto and Home premiums compared to the prior year driven by higher volumes. Auto and Home policy counts increased 9% period over period. Other revenues decreased $161 million, or 29%, to $386 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to a $65 million expense from updating valuation assumptions in 2009 compared to a $95 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system for RiverSource Life products in 2008. Expenses Total expenses decreased $127 million, or 8%, to $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions. 78 Table of Contents Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $68 million, or 8%, to $924 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to volume driven increases in Auto and Home reserves, as well as a lower benefit from updating valuation assumptions in 2009 compared to the benefit from updating valuation assumptions and implementing a new valuation system in 2008. Amortization of DAC decreased $174 million, or 52%, to $159 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to a benefit of $55 million from updating valuation assumptions in 2009 compared to an expense of $90 million from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system in the prior year. The impact of market performance in 2009 decreased DAC amortization by $3 million compared to an expense of $56 million in the prior year. General and administrative expense decreased $25 million, or 10%, to $226 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to the write off of certain capitalized software costs in 2008 and lower premium taxes compared to the prior year. Corporate & Other The following table presents the results of operations of our Corporate & Other segment: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Net investment income (loss) $ (57 ) $ 2 $ (59 ) $ (25 ) $ (3 ) $ (22 ) $ (37 ) NM Other revenues 90 28 62 (20 ) (46 ) 26 36 NM Total revenues 33 30 3 (45 ) (49 ) 4 (1 ) (25 )% Banking and deposit interest expense 7 6 1 3 1 2 (1 ) (50 ) Total net revenues 26 24 2 (48 ) (50 ) 2 Expenses Distribution expenses 3 3 1 1 2 NM Interest and debt expense 127 127 109 109 18 17 General and administrative expense 146 13 133 260 69 191 (58 ) (30 ) Total expenses 276 13 263 370 69 301 (38 ) (13 ) Pretax loss (250 ) 11 (261 ) (418 ) (119 ) (299 ) 38 13 Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 15 15 (54 ) (54 ) Pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ (265 ) $ (4 ) $ (261 ) $ (364 ) $ (65 ) $ (299 ) $ 38 13 % NM Not Meaningful. (1)Includes revenues and expenses of the CIEs, net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. 79 Table of Contents The following table presents the components of the adjustments in the table above: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments (in millions) Revenues Net investment income (loss) $ 2 $ $ 2 $ $ (3 ) $ (3 ) Other revenues 28 28 (46 ) (46 ) Total revenues 30 30 (46 ) (3 ) (49 ) Banking and deposit interest expense 6 6 1 1 Total net revenues 24 24 (47 ) (3 ) (50 ) Expenses Distribution expenses Interest and debt expense General and administrative expense 9 4 13 7 62 69 Total expenses 9 4 13 7 62 69 Pretax income (loss) 15 (4 ) 11 (54 ) (65 ) (119 ) Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 15 15 (54 ) (54 ) Pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ $ (4 ) $ (4 ) $ $ (65 ) $ (65 ) (1)Other adjustments include net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial was $265 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $364 million in the prior year. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax operating loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial, which excludes revenues and expenses of the CIEs, net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges, was $261 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $299 million in the prior year. Net revenues were $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to a negative $48 million for the prior year. Operating net revenues, which exclude net realized gains or losses and revenues of the CIEs, remained constant at $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Net investment loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 reflects the transfer priced interest income allocated to the Annuities and Protection segments for maintaining excess liquidity and the period over period decline in short term interest rates. Other revenues were $90 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to a negative $20 million for the prior year reflecting the impact of the CIEs. Operating other revenues, which exclude the impact of the CIEs, increased $36 million to $62 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 due to a $58 million gain on the repurchase of $135 million of our junior notes in 2009 compared to a $19 million gain on the repurchase of $43 million of our junior notes in 2008. Total expenses decreased $94 million, or 25%, to $276 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating expenses, which exclude expenses of the CIEs and integration and restructuring charges, decreased $38 million, or 13%, to $263 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Interest and debt expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 included a $13 million expense related to the early retirement of $450 million of our senior notes due 2010. General and administrative expense decreased $114 million, or 44%, to $146 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Integration and restructuring charges in 2009 were $4 million compared to $62 million in 2008. Operating general and administrative expense, which excludes expenses of the CIEs and integration and restructuring charges, decreased $58 million, or 30%, to $133 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 due to money market support costs incurred in 2008, including $77 million related to the mark to market of Lehman Brothers securities that we purchased from various 2a 7 money market mutual funds managed by our subsidiary, RiverSource Investments, LLC and $36 million for the cost of guaranteeing specific client holdings in an unaffiliated money market mutual fund, partially offset by higher performance compensation accruals and legal expenses in 2009. Fair Value Measurements We report certain assets and liabilities at fair value; specifically, separate account assets, derivatives, embedded derivatives, properties held by our consolidated property funds, and most investments and cash equivalents. Fair value assumes the exchange of assets or liabilities occurs in orderly transactions. Companies are not permitted to use market prices that are the result of a forced liquidation or distressed sale. We include actual market prices, or observable inputs, in our fair value measurements to the extent available. Broker quotes are obtained when quotes from pricing services are not available. We validate prices obtained from third parties through a variety of means such as: price variance analysis, subsequent sales testing, stale price review, price comparison across pricing vendors and due diligence reviews of vendors. 80 Table of Contents Non Agency Residential Mortgage Backed Securities Backed by Sub prime, Alt A or Prime Collateral Sub prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers with weak credit profiles. Alt A mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers who have credit ratings above sub prime but may not conform to government sponsored standards. Prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers with good credit profiles. We have exposure to each of these types of loans predominantly through mortgage backed and asset backed securities. The slowdown in the U.S. housing market, combined with relaxed underwriting standards by some originators, has led to higher delinquency and loss rates for some of these investments. Market conditions have increased the likelihood of other than temporary impairments for certain non agency residential mortgage backed securities. As a part of our risk management process, an internal rating system is used in conjunction with market data as the basis of analysis to assess the likelihood that we will not receive all contractual principal and interest payments for these investments. For the investments that are more at risk for impairment, we perform our own assessment of projected cash flows incorporating assumptions about default rates, prepayment speeds and loss severity to determine if an other than temporary impairment should be recognized. The following table presents, as of December 31, 2010, our non agency residential mortgage backed and asset backed securities backed by sub prime, Alt A or prime mortgage loans by credit rating and vintage year: AAA AA A BBB BB & Below Total Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value (in millions) Sub prime 2003 & prior $ 7 $ 7 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 7 $ 7 2004 10 10 7 4 6 6 8 7 31 27 2005 48 48 45 45 23 23 6 6 22 18 144 140 2006 9 9 57 42 66 51 2007 3 3 6 1 9 4 2008 6 5 6 5 Re Remic(1) 37 38 4 4 7 8 48 50 Total Sub prime $ 102 $ 103 $ 58 $ 54 $ 36 $ 36 $ 22 $ 23 $ 93 $ 68 $ 311 $ 284 Alt A 2003 & prior $ 17 $ 18 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 17 $ 18 2004 10 10 59 60 19 17 10 6 14 8 112 101 2005 2 2 10 8 308 226 320 236 2006 147 103 147 103 2007 192 113 192 113 2008 2009 2010 45 45 45 45 Re Remic(1) 113 114 5 5 118 119 Total Alt A $ 185 $ 187 $ 59 $ 60 $ 26 $ 24 $ 20 $ 14 $ 661 $ 450 $ 951 $ 735 Prime 2003 & prior $ 323 $ 324 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 323 $ 324 2004 127 128 26 24 29 30 29 26 22 8 233 216 2005 14 19 31 35 32 36 42 42 187 136 306 268 2006 17 19 38 36 55 55 2007 58 60 13 11 71 71 2008 Re Remic(1) 2,214 2,398 82 99 12 22 2,308 2,519 Total Prime $ 2,736 $ 2,929 $ 156 $ 177 $ 61 $ 66 $ 71 $ 68 $ 272 $ 213 $ 3,296 $ 3,453 Grand Total $ 3,023 $ 3,219 $ 273 $ 291 $ 123 $ 126 $ 113 $ 105 $ 1,026 $ 731 $ 4,558 $ 4,472 (1)Re Remics of mortgage backed securities are prior vintages with cash flows structured into senior and subordinated bonds. Credit enhancement on senior bonds is increased through the Re Remic process. Total exposure to subordinate tranches was nil as of December 31, 2010. Fair Value of Liabilities and Nonperformance Risk Companies are required to measure the fair value of liabilities at the price that would be received to transfer the liability to a market participant (an exit price). Since there is not a market for our obligations of our variable annuity riders, we consider the assumptions participants in a hypothetical market would make to reflect an exit price. As a result, we adjust the valuation of variable annuity riders by updating certain contractholder assumptions, adding explicit margins to provide for profit, risk and expenses, and adjusting the rates used to discount expected cash flows to reflect a current market estimate of our nonperformance risk. The nonperformance risk adjustment is based on broker quotes for credit default swaps that are adjusted to estimate the risk of our life insurance company subsidiaries not fulfilling these liabilities. Consistent with general market conditions, this estimate resulted in a spread over the LIBOR swap curve as of December 31, 2010. As our estimate of this spread widens or tightens, the liability will decrease or increase. If this 81 Table of Contents nonperformance credit spread moves to a zero spread over the LIBOR swap curve, the reduction to net income would be approximately $71 million, net of DAC and DSIC amortization and income taxes, based on December 31, 2010 credit spreads. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We maintained substantial liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, we had $2.9 billion in cash and cash equivalents compared to $3.1 billion at December 31, 2009. We have additional liquidity available through an unsecured revolving credit facility for up to $500 million that we entered into on September 30, 2010 and which expires in September 2011. Under the terms of the underlying credit agreement, we can increase this facility to $750 million upon satisfaction of certain approval requirements. Available borrowings under this facility are reduced by any outstanding letters of credit. We have had no borrowings under this credit facility and had $1 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2010. In March 2010, we issued $750 million of 5.30% senior notes due 2020. A portion of the proceeds was used to retire $340 million of debt that matured in November 2010. On April 30, 2010, we closed on the Columbia Management Acquisition and paid $866 million in the second quarter with cash on hand and assumed liabilities of $30 million. Our subsidiaries, Ameriprise Bank, FSB and RiverSource Life, are members of the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") of Des Moines, which provides these subsidiaries with access to collateralized borrowings. As of December 31, 2010, we had no borrowings from the FHLB. In 2010, we entered into repurchase agreements to reduce reinvestment risk from higher levels of expected annuity net cash flows. Repurchase agreements allow us to receive cash to reinvest in longer duration assets, while paying back the short term debt with cash flows generated by the fixed income portfolio. The balance of repurchase agreements at December 31, 2010 was $397 million, which is collateralized with agency residential mortgage backed securities and corporate debt securities from our investment portfolio. We believe cash flows from operating activities, available cash balances and our availability of revolver borrowings will be sufficient to fund our operating liquidity needs. Dividends from Subsidiaries Ameriprise Financial is primarily a parent holding company for the operations carried out by our wholly owned subsidiaries. Because of our holding company structure, our ability to meet our cash requirements, including the payment of dividends on our common stock, substantially depends upon the receipt of dividends or return of capital from our subsidiaries, particularly our life insurance subsidiary, RiverSource Life, our face amount certificate subsidiary, Ameriprise Certificate Company ("ACC"), AMPF Holding Corporation, which is the parent company of our retail introducing broker dealer subsidiary, Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. ("AFSI") and our clearing broker dealer subsidiary, American Enterprise Investment Services, Inc. ("AEIS"), our Auto and Home insurance subsidiary, IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company ("IDS Property Casualty"), doing business as Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance, our transfer agent subsidiary, Columbia Management Investment Services Corp., our investment advisory company, Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC, and Threadneedle. The payment of dividends by many of our subsidiaries is restricted and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital requirements. Actual capital and regulatory capital requirements as of December 31 for our wholly owned subsidiaries subject to regulatory capital requirements were as follows: Actual Capital Regulatory Capital Requirements 2010 2009 2010 2009 (in millions) RiverSource Life(1)(2) $ 3,813 $ 3,450 $ 652 $ 803 RiverSource Life of NY(1)(2) 291 286 38 44 IDS Property Casualty(1)(3) 411 405 141 133 Ameriprise Insurance Company(1)(3) 44 46 2 2 ACC(4)(5) 184 293 173 231 Threadneedle(6) 182 201 104 155 Ameriprise Bank, FSB(7) 302 255 294 231 AFSI(3)(4) 119 79 1 1 Ameriprise Captive Insurance Company(3) 38 28 12 12 Ameriprise Trust Company(3) 41 36 40 32 AEIS(3)(4) 115 133 35 29 Securities America, Inc.(3)(4) 2 15 # # RiverSource Distributors, Inc.(3)(4) 24 41 # # Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc.(3)(4) 27 13 # # #Amounts are less than $1 million. (1)Actual capital is determined on a statutory basis. (2)Regulatory capital requirement is based on the statutory risk based filing. 82 Table of Contents (3)Regulatory capital requirement is based on the applicable regulatory requirement, calculated as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. (4)Actual capital is determined on an adjusted GAAP basis. (5)ACC is required to hold capital in compliance with the Minnesota Department of Commerce and SEC capital requirements. (6)Actual capital and regulatory capital requirements are determined in accordance with U.K. regulatory legislation. The actual capital and the regulatory capital requirements for December 31, 2010 represent managements preliminary internal assessment of the risk based requirement specified by FSA regulations. (7)Ameriprise Bank is required to hold capital in compliance with the Office of Thrift Supervision ("OTS") regulations and policies, which currently require a Tier 1 (core) capital ratio of not less than 7.5%. In addition to the particular regulations restricting dividend payments and establishing subsidiary capitalization requirements, we take into account the overall health of the business, capital levels and risk management considerations in determining a dividend strategy for payments to our company from our subsidiaries, and in deciding to use cash to make capital contributions to our subsidiaries. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the parent holding company received cash dividends or a return of capital from its subsidiaries of $912 million and contributed cash to its subsidiaries of $73 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the parent holding company received cash dividends or a return of capital from its subsidiaries of $264 million and contributed cash to its subsidiaries of $233 million. The following table presents the dividends that could have been paid within the limitations of the applicable regulatory authorities as further described below, excluding extraordinary dividends for the years ended December 31: 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) RiverSource Life(1) $ 886 $ 253 $ 523 AEIS(2) 154 74 ACC(3) 171 87 Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC 191 89 164 Columbia Management Investment Services Corporation 3 16 Threadneedle 125 95 111 Ameriprise Trust Company 4 11 Securities America Financial Corporation 2 15 17 AFSI(2) 78 272 IDS Property Casualty(4) 44 42 42 Ameriprise Captive Insurance Company 26 16 11 RiverSource Distributors, Inc. 23 41 AMPF Holding Corporation 282 Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. 27 13 Total dividend capacity $ 1,777 $ 890 $ 1,241 (1)RiverSource Life dividends in excess of statutory unassigned funds require advance notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce, RiverSource Lifes primary regulator, and are subject to potential disapproval. In addition, dividends whose fair market value, together with that of other dividends or distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater of (1) the previous years statutory net gain from operations or (2) 10% of the previous year end statutory capital and surplus are referred to as "extraordinary dividends." Extraordinary dividends also require advance notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce, and are subject to potential disapproval. For dividends exceeding these thresholds, RiverSource Life provided notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce and received responses indicating that it did not object to the payment of these dividends. (2)In 2009, AEIS and AFSI became subsidiaries of AMPF Holding Corporation. For AEIS and AFSI the dividend capacity is based on an internal model used to determine the availability of dividends, while maintaining net capital at a level sufficiently in excess of minimum levels defined by Securities and Exchange Commission rules. (3)The dividend capacity for ACC is based on capital held in excess of regulatory requirements. (4)The dividend capacity for IDS Property Casualty is based on the lesser of (1) 10% of the previous year end capital and surplus or (2) the greater of (a) net income (excluding realized gains) of the previous year or (b) the aggregate net income of the previous three years excluding realized gains less any dividends paid within the first two years of the three year period. Dividends that, together with the amount of other distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceed this statutory limitation are referred to as "extraordinary dividends" and require advance notice to the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Wisconsin, the primary state regulator of IDS Property Casualty, and are subject to potential disapproval. 83  Table of Contents The following table presents the cash dividends paid or return of capital to the parent holding company, net of cash capital contributions made by the parent holding company for the following subsidiaries for the years ended December 31: 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) RiverSource Life $ 500 $ $ 775 Ameriprise Bank, FSB (35 ) (85 ) (82 ) AEIS(1) 10 ACC 160 25 (115 ) Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC 90 (336 ) Columbia Management Investment Services Corporation 3 15 Threadneedle 48 49 52 Ameriprise Trust Company (5 ) 16 Securities America Financial Corporation (25 ) AFSI(1) 140 IDS Property Casualty 30 85 50 Ameriprise Advisor Capital, LLC (33 ) (10 ) AMPF Holding Corporation 84 (38 ) Other 2 1 Total $ 839 $ 31 $ 501 (1)In 2009, AEIS and AFSI became subsidiaries of AMPF Holding Corporation. Dividends Paid to Shareholders, Share Repurchases and Debt Repurchases We paid regular quarterly cash dividends to our shareholders totaling $183 million and $164 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. On February 3, 2011, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per common share. The dividend will be paid on February 25, 2011 to our shareholders of record at the close of business on February 11, 2011. On May 11, 2010, we announced that our board of directors authorized an expenditure of up to $1.5 billion for the repurchase of shares of our common stock through the date of our 2012 annual shareholders meeting. We intend to fund share repurchases through existing working capital, future earnings and other customary financing methods. The share repurchase program does not require the purchase of any minimum number of shares, and depending on market conditions and other factors, these purchases may be commenced or suspended at any time without prior notice. Acquisitions under the share repurchase program may be made in the open market, through privately negotiated transactions or block trades or other means. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we repurchased a total of 13.1 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $43.73 per share. As of December 31, 2010, we had $927 million remaining under our share repurchase authorization. In December 2010, we extinguished $14 million principal amount of our junior notes due 2066. In 2009, we extinguished $135 million principal amount of our junior notes due 2066 and $460 million principal amount of our senior notes due 2010. In the future, we may from time to time seek to retire or purchase additional outstanding debt through cash purchases in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, without prior notice. Such repurchases, if any, will depend upon market conditions and other factors. The amounts involved could be material. Cash Flows Cash flows of CIEs are reflected in our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities. Cash held by CIEs is not available for general use by Ameriprise Financial, nor is Ameriprise Financial cash available for general use by its CIEs. As such, the operating, investing and financing cash flows of the CIEs have no impact to the change in cash and cash equivalents. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $2.0 billion compared to net cash used in operating activities of $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2009, operating cash flows were reduced by $1.9 billion due to a decrease in net cash collateral held related to derivative instruments compared to an increase of $111 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in operating cash compared to the prior year was also driven by higher fee revenue, partially offset by higher advisor compensation. Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $1.3 billion compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008. In 2009, operating cash flows were reduced by $1.9 billion due to a decrease in net cash collateral held related to derivative instruments, compared to an increase of $1.6 billion in 2008. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in cash for the year ended December 31, 2009 due to repayments of funds advanced to clients in 2008 to fund their liquidity needs following the 84 Table of Contents freeze of funds in the Reserve Primary Fund and the Reserve Government Fund. The positive impacts to operating cash flows in 2009 from lower performance based compensation payments and a net decrease in income taxes paid compared to the prior year were offset by the negative impacts of integration and restructuring payments in 2009. Investing Activities Our investing activities primarily relate to our Available for Sale investment portfolio. Further, this activity is significantly affected by the net flows of our investment certificate, fixed annuity and universal life products reflected in financing activities. Net cash used in investing activities decreased $5.5 billion to $922 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $6.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to a $10.3 billion decrease in cash used for purchases of Available for Sale securities, partially offset by a $3.6 billion reduction in proceeds from sales and maturities, sinking fund payments and calls of Available for Sale securities. We also paid cash of $866 million for the Columbia Management Acquisition in 2010. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $6.4 billion compared to $140 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Cash used for purchases of Available for Sale securities increased $14.2 billion and proceeds from sales and maturities, sinking fund payments and calls of Available for Sale securities increased $7.1 billion compared to the prior year, resulting in a $7.1 billion net decrease to cash. In 2008, we paid cash of $563 million for acquisitions, net of cash acquired. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $4.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Net cash outflows related to policyholder and contractholder account values were $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to net cash inflows of $3.1 billion for the prior year primarily due to a decrease in fixed annuity deposits and the transfer of general account assets to separate accounts from the implementation of changes to the PN program. Proceeds from sales of investment certificates and banking time deposits decreased $1.4 billion compared to the prior year primarily due to the run off of certificate rate promotions, partially offset by a $1.3 billion decrease in maturities, withdrawals and cash surrenders. Cash provided by other banking deposits decreased $345 million compared to the prior year. Cash received due to issuance of debt, net of repayments, increased $449 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year. In the 2010 period, net cash received related to repurchase agreements was $397 million. In the 2009 period, we received cash of $869 million from the issuance of common stock. Cash used for the repurchase of common stock increased $571 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $4.5 billion compared to $525 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Cash received from the issuance of our senior notes and common stock in June 2009, net of issuance costs, was $491 million and $869 million, respectively. Net cash received from policyholder and contractholder account values increased $3.1 billion compared to the prior year primarily due to higher net flows of fixed annuities. Cash used for the repurchase of our common stock decreased $627 million compared to the prior year due to the suspension of our repurchase program. These increases to cash were offset by $550 million of cash used to extinguish $135 million of our junior notes and $460 million of our senior notes due 2010 in 2009. The net cash decrease of $1.9 billion related to investment certificates and banking time deposits was primarily due to net outflows in investment certificates. Cash provided by other banking deposits increased $1.2 billion due to higher Ameriprise Bank, FSB activity in 2009. 85 Table of Contents Contractual Commitments The contractual obligations identified in the table below include both our on and off balance sheet transactions that represent material expected or contractually committed future obligations. Payments due by period as of December 31, 2010 were as follows: Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and Thereafter (in millions) Balance Sheet: Long term debt(1) $ 2,264 $ $ $ 700 $ 1,564 Insurance and annuities(2) 47,335 2,348 4,815 5,589 34,583 Investment certificates(3) 3,146 2,879 267 Deferred premium options(4) 1,651 266 468 371 546 Affordable housing partnerships(5) 188 88 98 2 Off Balance Sheet: Lease obligations 670 96 171 144 259 Purchase obligations(6) 459 138 178 61 82 Interest on long term debt(7) 2,470 140 281 275 1,774 Total $ 58,183 $ 5,955 $ 6,278 $ 7,142 $ 38,808 (1)See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our long term debt. (2)These scheduled payments are represented by reserves of approximately $29.7 billion at December 31, 2010 and are based on interest credited, mortality, morbidity, lapse, surrender and premium payment assumptions. Actual payment obligations may differ if experience varies from these assumptions. Separate account liabilities have been excluded as associated contractual obligations would be met by separate account assets. (3)The payments due by year are based on contractual term maturities. However, contractholders have the right to redeem the investment certificates earlier and at their discretion subject to surrender charges, if any. Redemptions are most likely to occur in periods of substantial increases in interest rates. (4)The fair value of the deferred premium options included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2010. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our deferred premium options. (5)Affordable housing partnership commitments are primarily related to investments in low income housing tax credit partnerships. Call dates for the obligations presented are either date or event specific. For date specific obligations, the Company is required to fund a specific amount on a stated date provided there are no defaults under the agreement. For event specific obligations, the Company is required to fund a specific amount of its capital commitment when properties in a fund become fully stabilized. For event specific obligations, the estimated call date of these commitments is used in the table above. (6)Purchase obligations include the minimum contractual amounts by period under contracts that were in effect at December 31, 2010. Many of the purchase agreements giving rise to these purchase obligations include termination clauses that may require payment of termination fees if the agreements are terminated by the Company without cause prior to their stated expiration; however, the table reflects the amounts to be paid assuming the contracts are not terminated. (7)Interest on debt was estimated based on rates in effect as of December 31, 2010. In addition to the contractual commitments outlined in the table above, we periodically fund the employees defined benefit plans. We contributed $64 million and $36 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, to our pension plans. In 2011, we expect to contribute $40 million to our pension plans and $2 million to our defined benefit postretirement plans. See Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Total loan funding commitments, which are not included in the table above due to uncertainty with respect to timing of future cash flows, were $2.1 billion at December 31, 2010. For additional information relating to these contractual commitments, see Note 23 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We provide asset management services to various collateralized debt obligations and other investment products, which are sponsored by us for the investment of client assets in the normal course of business. Certain of these investment entities are considered to be variable interest entities while others are considered to be voting rights entities. We consolidate certain of these investment entities. For entities that we do not consolidate, our maximum exposure to loss is our investment in the entity, which was not material as of December 31, 2010. We have no obligation to provide further financial or other support to these structured investments nor have we provided any support to these structured investments. See Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our arrangements with structured investments. 86 Table of Contents Forward Looking Statements This report contains forward looking statements that reflect managements plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those described in these forward looking statements. Examples of such forward looking statements include: statements of the Companys plans, intentions, positioning, expectations, objectives or goals, including those relating to asset flows, mass affluent and affluent client acquisition strategy, client retention and growth of our client base, financial advisor productivity, retention, recruiting and enrollments, general and administrative costs; consolidated tax rate, return of capital to shareholders, and excess capital position and financial flexibility to capture additional growth opportunities; other statements about future economic performance, the performance of equity markets and interest rate variations and the economic performance of the United States and of global markets; and statements of assumptions underlying such statements. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "optimistic," "intend," "plan," "aim," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely," "forecast," "on pace," "project" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: changes in the valuations, liquidity and volatility in the interest rate, credit default, equity market, and foreign exchange environments; changes in relevant accounting standards, as well as changes in the litigation and regulatory environment, including ongoing legal proceedings and regulatory actions, the frequency and extent of legal claims threatened or initiated by clients, other persons and regulators, and developments in regulation and legislation, including the rules and regulations implemented or to be implemented in connection with the Dodd Frank Act; investment management performance and consumer acceptance of the Companys products; effects of competition in the financial services industry and changes in product distribution mix and distribution channels; changes to the Companys reputation that may arise from employee or affiliated advisor misconduct, legal or regulatory actions, improper management of conflicts of interest or otherwise; the Companys capital structure, including indebtedness, limitations on subsidiaries to pay dividends, and the extent, manner, terms and timing of any share or debt repurchases management may effect as well as the opinions of rating agencies and other analysts and the reactions of market participants or the Companys regulators, advisors, distribution partners or customers in response to any change or prospect of change in any such opinion; changes to the availability of liquidity and the Companys credit capacity that may arise due to shifts in market conditions, the Companys credit ratings and the overall availability of credit; risks of default, capacity constraint or repricing by issuers or guarantors of investments the Company owns or by counterparties to hedge, derivative, insurance or reinsurance arrangements or by manufacturers of products the Company distributes, experience deviations from the Companys assumptions regarding such risks, the evaluations or the prospect of changes in evaluations of any such third parties published by rating agencies or other analysts, and the reactions of other market participants or the Companys regulators, advisors, distribution partners or customers in response to any such evaluation or prospect of changes in evaluation; with respect to VIE pooled investments the Company has determined do not require consolidation under GAAP, the Companys assessment that it does not have the power over the VIE or hold a variable interest in these investments for which the Company has the potential to receive significant benefits or to absorb significant losses; experience deviations from the Companys assumptions regarding morbidity, mortality and persistency in certain annuity and insurance products, or from assumptions regarding market returns assumed in valuing DAC and DSIC or market volatility underlying the Companys valuation and hedging of guaranteed living benefit annuity riders; or from assumptions regarding anticipated claims and losses relating to the Companys automobile and home insurance products; changes in capital requirements that may be indicated, required or advised by regulators or rating agencies; the impacts of the Companys efforts to improve distribution economics and to grow third party distribution of its products; 87 Table of Contents the ability to complete the acquisition opportunities the Company negotiates and to pursue other growth opportunities; the Companys ability to realize the financial, operating and business fundamental benefits or to obtain regulatory approvals regarding integrations we plan for the acquisitions we have completed or may pursue and contract to complete in the future, as well as the amount and timing of integration expenses; the ability and timing to realize savings and other benefits from re engineering and tax planning; changes in the capital markets and competitive environments induced or resulting from the partial or total ownership or other support by central governments of certain financial services firms or financial assets; and general economic and political factors, including consumer confidence in the economy, the ability and inclination of consumers generally to invest as well as their ability and inclination to invest in financial instruments and products other than cash and cash equivalents, the costs of products and services the Company consumes in the conduct of its business, and applicable legislation and regulation and changes therein, including tax laws, tax treaties, fiscal and central government treasury policy, and policies regarding the financial services industry and publicly held firms, and regulatory rulings and pronouncements. Management cautions the reader that the foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. There may also be other risks that management is unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Management undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward looking statements.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our primary market risk exposures are interest rate, equity price, foreign currency exchange rate and credit risk. Equity price and interest rate fluctuations can have a significant impact on our results of operations, primarily due to the effects they have on the asset management and other asset based fees we earn, the spread income generated on our annuities, banking, brokerage client cash balances, and face amount certificate products and UL insurance products, the value of DAC and DSIC assets associated with variable annuity and variable UL products, the values of liabilities for guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuities and the values of derivatives held to hedge these benefits. The guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuities are guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ("GMWB"), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ("GMAB"), guaranteed minimum death benefits ("GMDB") and guaranteed minimum income benefits ("GMIB") options. Each of these guaranteed benefits guarantees payouts to the annuity holder under certain specific conditions regardless of the performance of the underlying investment assets. We continue to utilize a hedging program which attempts to match the sensitivity of the assets with the sensitivity of the liabilities. This approach works with the premise that matched sensitivities will produce a highly effective hedging result. Our comprehensive hedging program focuses mainly on first order sensitivities of the assets and liabilities; Equity Market Level (Delta), Interest Rate Level (Rho) and Volatility (Vega). Additionally, various second order sensitivities are managed. We use various index options across the term structure, interest rate swaps and swaptions, total return swaps and futures to manage the risk exposures. The exposures are measured and monitored daily, and adjustments to the hedge portfolio are made as necessary. To evaluate interest rate and equity price risk we perform sensitivity testing which measures the impact on pretax income from the sources listed below for a 12 month period following a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates or a hypothetical 10% decline in equity prices. The interest rate risk test assumes a sudden 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve, with rates then staying at those levels for the next 12 months. The equity price risk test assumes a sudden 10% drop in equity prices, with equity prices then staying at those levels for the next 12 months. In estimating the values of variable annuity riders, equity indexed annuities, stock market certificates and the associated hedge assets, we assumed no change in implied market volatility despite the 10% drop in equity prices. 88 Table of Contents The following tables present our estimate of the impact on pretax income from these hypothetical market movements as of December 31, 2010: Equity Price Exposure to Pretax Income Equity Price Decline 10% Before Hedge Impact Hedge Impact Net Impact (in millions) Asset based management and distribution fees(1) $ (177 ) $ $ (177 ) DAC and DSIC amortization(2)(3) (127 ) (127 ) Variable annuity riders: GMDB and GMIB(3) (25 ) (25 ) GMWB (40 ) 42 2 GMAB (25 ) 28 3 DAC and DSIC amortization(4) N/A N/A (2 ) Total variable annuity riders (90 ) 70 (22 ) Equity indexed annuities 1 (1 ) Stock market certificates 6 (6 ) Total $ (387 ) $ 63 $ (326 ) Interest Rate Exposure to Pretax Income Interest Rate Increase 100 Basis Points Before Hedge Impact Hedge Impact Net Impact (in millions) Asset based management and distribution fees(1) $ (36 ) $ $ (36 ) Variable annuity riders: GMWB 253 (300 ) (47 ) GMAB 34 (39 ) (5 ) DAC and DSIC amortization(4) N/A N/A 18 Total variable annuity riders 287 (339 ) (34 ) Fixed annuities, fixed portion of variable annuities and fixed insurance products Brokerage client cash balances 84 (17 ) 67 Flexible savings and other fixed rate savings products 14 14 Total $ 349 $ (356 ) $ 11 N/A Not Applicable. (1)Includes the impact of the Columbia Management Acquisition. Excludes incentive income which is impacted by market and fund performance during the period and cannot be readily estimated. (2)Market impact on DAC and DSIC amortization resulting from lower projected profits. (3)In estimating the impact on DAC and DSIC amortization resulting from lower projected profits, we have not changed our assumed equity asset growth rates. This is a significantly more conservative estimate than if we assumed management follows its mean reversion guideline and increased near term rates to recover the drop in equity values over a five year period. We make this same conservative assumption in estimating the impact from GMDB and GMIB riders. (4)Market impact on DAC and DSIC amortization related to variable annuity riders is modeled net of hedge impact. The above results compare to an estimated negative net impact to pretax income of $287 million related to a 10% equity price decline and an estimated positive net impact to pretax income of $4 million related to a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2009. The estimated positive net impact to pretax income related to a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2009 was updated from prior year to include the impact of brokerage client cash balances. The increase in equity exposure at December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year is primarily due to the inclusion of Columbia Management in the asset based management and distribution fees category at December 31, 2010. The increase in the estimated positive net impact to pretax income related to a 100 basis point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year was primarily due to lower rates partially offset by a negative impact from the hedge on brokerage client cash balances, which was not in place at December 31, 2009. Net impacts shown in the above table from GMWB and GMAB riders result largely from differences between the liability valuation basis and the hedging basis. Liabilities are valued using fair value accounting principles, with key policyholder behavior assumptions loaded to provide risk margins and with discount rates increased to reflect a current market estimate of our risk of nonperformance specific to these liabilities. For variable annuity riders introduced prior to mid 2009, management elected to hedge based on best estimate policyholder behavior assumptions. For riders issued since mid 2009, management has been hedging on a basis that includes risk margins related to policyholder behavior. The nonperformance spread risk is not hedged. Net impacts shown in the above table from GMDB and GMIB reflect the fact that these guaranteed benefits are primarily retained by us and not hedged. Actual results could differ materially from those illustrated above as they are based on a number of estimates and assumptions. These include assuming that implied market volatility does not change when equity prices fall by 10%, that management does not increase assumed equity asset growth rates to anticipate recovery of the drop in equity values when 89 Table of Contents valuing DAC, DSIC and GMDB and GMIB liability values and that the 100 basis point increase in interest rates is a parallel shift of the yield curve. Furthermore, we have not tried to anticipate changes in client preferences for different types of assets or other changes in client behavior, nor have we tried to anticipate actions management might take to increase revenues or reduce expenses in these scenarios. The selection of a 100 basis point interest rate increase as well as a 10% equity price decline should not be construed as a prediction of future market events. Impacts of larger or smaller changes in interest rates or equity prices may not be proportional to those shown for a 100 basis point increase in interest rates or a 10% decline in equity prices. Asset Based Management and Distribution Fees We earn asset based management fees and distribution fees on our managed assets. At December 31, 2010, the value of our managed assets was $456.8 billion. These sources of revenue are subject to both interest rate and equity price risk since the value of these assets and the fees they earn fluctuate inversely with interest rates and directly with equity prices. We do not currently hedge the interest rate or equity price risk of this exposure. DAC and DSIC Amortization For annuity and universal life products, DAC and DSIC are amortized on the basis of estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits are a proxy for pretax income prior to the recognition of DAC and DSIC amortization expense. When events occur that reduce or increase current period estimated gross profits, DAC and DSIC amortization expense is typically reduced or increased as well, somewhat mitigating the impact of the event on pretax income. Variable Annuity Riders The total contract value of all variable annuities has increased from $55.1 billion at December 31, 2009 to $62.6 billion at December 31, 2010. These contract values include GMWB and GMAB contracts which have increased from $19.2 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009 to $24.7 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, reserves for GMWB and GMAB were $337 million and $104 million, respectively, compared to reserves of $204 million and $100 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009. The increase in reserves for GMWB and GMAB reflect the changes in economic factors impacting the mark to market value of the guarantees and increased volume of business. At December 31, 2010, the reserve for the other variable annuity guaranteed benefits, GMDB and GMIB, was $13 million compared to $12 million at December 31, 2009. Equity Price Risk Variable Annuity Riders The variable annuity guaranteed benefits guarantee payouts to the annuity holder under certain specific conditions regardless of the performance of the investment assets. For this reason, when equity prices decline, the returns from the separate account assets coupled with guaranteed benefit fees from annuity holders may not be sufficient to fund expected payouts. In that case, reserves must be increased with a negative impact to earnings. The core derivative instruments with which we hedge the equity price risk of our GMWB and GMAB provisions are longer dated put and call derivatives; these core instruments are supplemented with equity futures and total return swaps. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our derivative instruments. Interest Rate Risk Variable Annuity Riders The GMAB and the non life contingent benefits associated with the GMWB provisions create embedded derivatives which are carried at fair value separately from the underlying host variable annuity contract. Changes in the fair value of the GMWB and GMAB liabilities are recorded through earnings with fair value calculated based on projected, discounted cash flows over the life of the contract, including projected, discounted benefits and fees. Increases in interest rates reduce the fair value of the GMWB and GMAB liabilities. The GMWB and GMAB interest rate exposure is hedged with a portfolio of longer dated put and call derivatives, interest rate swaps and swaptions. We have entered into interest rate swaps according to risk exposures along maturities, thus creating both fixed rate payor and variable rate payor terms. If interest rates were to increase, we would have to pay more to the swap counterparty, and the fair value of our equity puts would decrease, resulting in a negative impact to our pretax income. Fixed Annuities, Fixed Portion of Variable Annuities and Fixed Insurance Products Interest rate exposures arise primarily with respect to the fixed account portion of annuity and insurance products of RiverSource Life companies and their investment portfolios. We guarantee an interest rate to the holders of these products. Premiums and deposits collected from clients are primarily invested in fixed rate securities to fund the client credited rate with the spread between the rate earned from investments and the rate credited to clients recorded as earned income. Client liabilities and investment assets generally differ as it relates to basis, repricing or maturity characteristics. Rates credited to clients accounts generally reset at shorter intervals than the yield on the underlying investments. Therefore, in an increasing rate environment, higher interest rates are reflected in crediting rates to clients sooner than in rates earned on invested assets resulting in a reduced spread between the two rates, reduced earned 90 Table of Contents income and a negative impact on pretax income. Of the $30.2 billion in future policy benefits and claims on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010, $29.2 billion related to liabilities created by these products. We do not hedge this exposure. Brokerage Client Cash Balances We pay interest on certain brokerage client cash balances and have the ability to reset these rates from time to time based on prevailing economic and business conditions. We earn revenue to fund the interest paid from interest earning assets or fees from off balance sheet deposits at FDIC insured institutions, which are indexed to short term interest rates. In general, the change in interest paid lags the change in revenues earned. We currently hedge a portion of the fees earned on deposits held at FDIC insured institutions with interest rate swaps classified as cash flow hedges. Flexible Savings and Other Fixed Rate Savings Products We have interest rate risk from our flexible savings and other fixed rate savings products. These products are primarily investment certificates generally ranging in amounts from $1,000 to $1 million with interest crediting rate terms ranging from three to 36 months, as well as other savings products sold through Ameriprise Bank. We guarantee an interest rate to the holders of these products. Payments collected from clients are primarily invested in fixed rate securities to fund the client credited rate with the spread between the rate earned from investments and the rate credited to clients recorded as earned income. Client liabilities and investment assets generally differ as it relates to basis, repricing or maturity characteristics. Rates credited to clients generally reset at shorter intervals than the yield on underlying investments. This exposure is not currently hedged although we monitor our investment strategy and make modifications based on our changing liabilities and the expected interest rate environment. Of the $8.8 billion in customer deposits at December 31, 2010, $2.3 billion related to reserves for our fixed rate certificate products and $3.5 billion related to reserves for our banking products. Equity Indexed Annuities Our equity indexed annuity product is a single premium annuity issued with an initial term of seven years. The annuity guarantees the contractholder a minimum return of 3% on 90% of the initial premium or end of prior term accumulation value upon renewal plus a return that is linked to the performance of the S&P 500 Index. The equity linked return is based on a participation rate initially set at between 50% and 90% of the S&P 500 Index, which is guaranteed for the initial seven year term when the contract is held to full term. At December 31, 2010, we had $103 million in reserves related to equity indexed annuities. We discontinued new sales of equity indexed annuities in 2007. Equity Price Risk Equity Indexed Annuities The equity linked return to investors creates equity price risk as the amount credited depends on changes in equity prices. To hedge this exposure, a portion of the proceeds from the sale of equity indexed annuities is used to purchase futures, calls and puts which generate returns to replicate what we must credit to client accounts. In conjunction with purchasing puts we also write puts. Pairing purchased puts with written puts allows us to better match the characteristics of the liability. Interest Rate Risk Equity Indexed Annuities Most of the proceeds from the sale of equity indexed annuities are invested in fixed income securities with the return on those investments intended to fund the 3% guarantee. We earn income from the difference between the return earned on invested assets and the 3% guarantee rate credited to customer accounts. The spread between return earned and amount credited is affected by changes in interest rates. Stock Market Certificates Stock market certificates are purchased for amounts generally from $1,000 to $1 million for terms of 52 weeks which can be extended to a maximum of 20 years. For each term the certificate holder can choose to participate 100% in any percentage increase in the S&P 500 Index up to a maximum return or choose partial participation in any increase in the S&P 500 Index plus a fixed rate of interest guaranteed in advance. If partial participation is selected, the total of equity linked return and guaranteed rate of interest cannot exceed the maximum return. Reserves for our stock market certificates are included in customer deposits on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2010, we had $804 million in reserves related to stock market certificates. Equity Price Risk Stock Market Certificates As with the equity indexed annuities, the equity linked return to investors creates equity price risk exposure. We seek to minimize this exposure with purchased futures and call spreads that replicate what we must credit to client accounts. 91 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk Stock Market Certificates Stock market certificates have some interest rate risk as changes in interest rates affect the fair value of the payout to be made to the certificate holder. This risk continues to be fully hedged. Foreign Currency Risk We have foreign currency risk through our net investment in foreign subsidiaries and our operations in foreign countries. We are primarily exposed to changes in British Pounds ("GBP") related to our net investment in Threadneedle, which was 425 million GBP at December 31, 2010. Our primary exposure related to operations in foreign countries is to the GBP and the Indian Rupee. We monitor the foreign exchange rates that we have exposure to and enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate risk when economically prudent. At December 31, 2010, the notional value of outstanding contracts and our remaining foreign currency risk related to operations in foreign countries were not material. Interest Rate Risk on External Debt The stated interest rate on the $2.0 billion of our senior unsecured notes is fixed and the stated interest rate on the $308 million of junior notes is fixed until June 1, 2016. In 2010, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to effectively convert the fixed interest rate on $1.4 billion of the senior unsecured notes to floating interest rates based on six month LIBOR. We hedged the debt in part to better align the interest expense on debt with the interest earned on cash equivalents held on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The net interest rate risk of these items is immaterial. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk within our investment portfolio, including our loan portfolio, and through our derivative and reinsurance activities. Credit risk relates to the uncertainty of an obligors continued ability to make timely payments in accordance with the contractual terms of the financial instrument or contract. We consider our total potential credit exposure to each counterparty and its affiliates to ensure compliance with pre established credit guidelines at the time we enter into a transaction which would potentially increase our credit risk. These guidelines and oversight of credit risk are managed through a comprehensive enterprise risk management program that includes members of senior management. We manage the risk of credit related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties by applying disciplined fundamental credit analysis and underwriting standards, prudently limiting exposures to lower quality, higher yielding investments, and diversifying exposures by issuer, industry, region and underlying investment type. We remain exposed to occasional adverse cyclical economic downturns during which default rates may be significantly higher than the long term historical average used in pricing. We manage our credit risk related to over the counter derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through the use of master netting arrangements that provide for a single net payment to be made by one counterparty to another at each due date and upon termination. Generally, our current credit exposure on over the counter derivative contracts is limited to a derivative counterpartys net positive fair value of derivative contracts after taking into consideration the existence of netting arrangements and any collateral received. This exposure is monitored and managed to an acceptable threshold level. Because exchange traded futures are effected through regulated exchanges and positions are marked to market and generally cash settled on a daily basis, we have minimal exposure to credit related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to such derivative instruments. We manage our credit risk related to reinsurance treaties by evaluating the financial condition of reinsurance counterparties prior to entering into new reinsurance treaties. In addition, we regularly evaluate their financial strength during the terms of the treaties. As of December 31, 2010, our largest reinsurance credit risk is related to a long term care coinsurance treaty with life insurance subsidiaries of Genworth Financial, Inc. See Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on reinsurance. 92  Table of Contents   
 
