Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the "Forward Looking Statements," our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes that follow and the "Consolidated Five Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" and the "Risk Factors" included in our Annual Report on Form 10 K. Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to conform to the current presentation. References below to "Ameriprise Financial," the "Company," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Ameriprise Financial, Inc. exclusively, to our entire family of companies, or to one or more of our subsidiaries. Overview We are a diversified financial services company with $631 billion in assets under management and administration as of December 31, 2011. We serve individual investors and institutions financial needs, hold leadership positions in financial planning, wealth management, retirement, asset management, annuities and insurance, and we maintain a strong operating and financial foundation. Ameriprise is in a strong position to capitalize on significant demographic and market trends, which we believe will continue to drive increased demand for our services. Our emphasis on deep client advisor relationships has been central to the success of our business model, including through the extreme market conditions of the past few years, and we believe it will help us navigate future market and economic cycles. We continue to strengthen our position as a retail financial services leader as we focus on meeting the financial needs of the mass affluent and affluent, as evidenced by our leadership in financial planning, a client retention percentage rate of 92%, and our status as a top ten ranked firm within core portions of our four main business segments, including the size of our U.S. advisor force, and assets in long term U.S. mutual funds, variable annuities and variable universal life ("VUL") insurance. We offer financial planning, products and services designed to be used as solutions for our clients cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth transfer needs. Our model for delivering product solutions is built on long term, personal relationships between our clients and our financial advisors and registered representatives ("affiliated advisors"). Our focus on personal relationships, together with our discipline in financial planning and strengths in product development and advice, allow us to address the evolving financial and retirement related needs of our clients, including our primary target market segment, the mass affluent and affluent, which we define as households with investable assets of more than $100,000. The financial product solutions we offer through our affiliated advisors include both our own products and services and the products of other companies. Our affiliated advisor network is the primary channel through which we offer our life insurance and annuity products and services, as well as a range of banking and protection products. Our affiliated advisors are focused on using a financial planning and advisory process designed to provide comprehensive advice that focuses on all aspects of our clients finances. This approach allows us to recommend actions and a broad range of product solutions, including investment, annuity, insurance, banking and other financial products that can help clients attain a return or form of protection over time while accepting what they determine to be an appropriate range and level of risk. We believe our focus on meeting clients needs through personal financial planning results in more satisfied clients with deeper, longer lasting relationships with our company and higher retention of our affiliated advisors. As of December 31, 2011, we had a network of more than 9,700 affiliated advisors. The financial product solutions we offer through our affiliated advisors include both our own products and services and the products of other companies. Our affiliated advisor network is the primary channel through which we offer our life insurance and annuity products and services, as well as a range of banking and protection products. We offer our affiliated advisors training, tools, leadership, marketing programs and other field and centralized support to assist them in delivering advice and product solutions to clients. We believe our comprehensive and client focused approach not only improves the products and services we provide to their clients, but also allows us to reinvest in enhanced services for clients and increase support for financial advisors. We have four main operating segments: Advice & Wealth Management, Asset Management, Annuities and Protection, as well as our Corporate & Other segment. Our four main operating segments are aligned with the financial solutions we offer to address our clients needs. The products and services we provide retail clients and, to a lesser extent, institutional clients, are the primary source of our revenues and net income. Revenues and net income are significantly affected by investment performance and the total value and composition of assets we manage and administer for our retail and institutional clients as well as the distribution fees we receive from other companies. These factors, in turn, are largely determined by overall investment market performance and the depth and breadth of our individual client relationships. 42 Table of Contents Equity price, credit market and interest rate fluctuations can have a significant impact on our results of operations, primarily due to the effects they have on the asset management and other asset based fees we earn, the "spread" income generated on our annuities, banking and deposit products and universal life ("UL") insurance products, the value of deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") and deferred sales inducement costs ("DSIC") assets, the values of liabilities for guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuities and the values of derivatives held to hedge these benefits. In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board updated the accounting standards related to the required consolidation of certain variable interest entities ("VIEs"). We adopted the accounting standard effective January 1, 2010 and recorded as a cumulative change in accounting principle an increase to appropriated retained earnings of consolidated investment entities of $473 million and consolidated approximately $5.5 billion of client assets and $5.1 billion of liabilities in VIEs onto our Consolidated Balance Sheets that were not previously consolidated. Management views the VIE assets as client assets and the liabilities have recourse only to those assets. While the economics of our business have not changed, the financial statements were impacted. Prior to adoption, we consolidated certain property funds and hedge funds. These entities and the VIEs consolidated as of January 1, 2010, are defined as consolidated investment entities ("CIEs"). Changes in the valuation of the CIE assets and liabilities impact pretax income. The net income (loss) of the CIEs is reflected in net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests. The results of operations of the CIEs are reflected in the Corporate & Other segment. On a consolidated basis, the management fees we earn for the services we provide to the CIEs and the related general and administrative expenses are eliminated and the changes in the assets and liabilities related to the CIEs, primarily debt and underlying syndicated loans, are reflected in net investment income. We continue to include the fees in the management and financial advice fees line within our Asset Management segment. Management believes that operating measures, which exclude net realized gains or losses; the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization; integration and restructuring charges; income (loss) from discontinued operations; and the impact of consolidating CIEs, best reflect the underlying performance of our core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. Management uses certain of these non GAAP measures to evaluate our financial performance on a basis comparable to that used by some securities analysts and investors. Also, certain of these non GAAP measures are taken into consideration, to varying degrees, for purposes of business planning and analysis and for certain compensation related matters. Throughout our Managements Discussion and Analysis, these non GAAP measures are referred to as operating measures. While the consolidation of the CIEs impacts our balance sheet and income statement, our exposure to these entities is unchanged and there is no impact to the underlying business results. The CIEs we manage have the following characteristics: They were formed on behalf of institutional investors to obtain a diversified investment portfolio and were not formed in order to obtain financing for Ameriprise Financial. Ameriprise Financial receives customary, industry standard management fees for the services it provides to these CIEs and has a fiduciary responsibility to maximize the investors returns. Ameriprise Financial does not have any obligation to provide financial support to the CIEs, does not provide any performance guarantees of the CIEs and has no obligation to absorb the investors losses. Management excludes the impact of consolidating the CIEs on assets, liabilities, pretax income and equity for setting our financial performance targets and annual incentive award compensation targets. It is managements priority to increase shareholder value over a multi year horizon by achieving our on average, over time financial targets. Our financial targets are: Operating total net revenue growth of 6% to 8%, Operating earnings per diluted share growth of 12% to 15%, and Operating return on equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income of 12% to 15%. Net revenues increased $680 million, or 7%, to $10.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $9.5 billion for the prior year. Operating net revenues exclude net realized gains or losses and revenues or losses of the CIEs and include the fees we earn from services provided to the CIEs. Operating net revenues increased $933 million, or 10%, to $10.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $9.1 billion for the prior year. Net income from continuing operations attributable to Ameriprise Financial per diluted share increased $0.34, or 8%, to $4.61 for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $4.27 for the prior year. Operating earnings exclude net realized gains or losses; the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization; integration and restructuring charges; income (loss) from discontinued operations; and the impact of consolidating CIEs. Operating earnings per diluted share increased $0.47, or 10%, to $5.00 for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $4.53 for the prior year. 43 Table of Contents Return on equity from continuing operations excluding accumulated other comprehensive income was 11.5% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 compared to 11.6% for the prior year. Operating return on equity is calculated using operating earnings for the last twelve months in the numerator and the average Ameriprise Financial, Inc. shareholders equity from continuing operations excluding the impact of consolidating CIEs and accumulated other comprehensive income as of the last day of the trailing four quarters and the current quarter in the denominator. Operating return on equity excluding CIEs and accumulated other comprehensive income was 13.2% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 compared to 12.9% for the prior year. On April 30, 2010, we acquired the long term asset management business of Columbia Management Group from Bank of America (the "Columbia Management Acquisition"). The acquisition, the integration of which is expected to be completed in 2012, has enhanced the scale and performance of our retail mutual fund and institutional asset management businesses. We incurred pretax non recurring integration costs related to the Columbia Management Acquisition of $95 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. In total, we have incurred $202 million of pretax non recurring integration costs through December 31, 2011. These costs include system integration costs, proxy and other regulatory filing costs, employee reduction and retention costs, and investment banking, legal and other acquisition costs. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we sold Securities America Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Securities America") to Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services, Inc. for $150 million in cash and potential future payments if Securities America reaches certain financial criteria. The results of Securities America have been presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented and the related assets and liabilities have been classified as held for sale. Critical Accounting Policies The accounting and reporting policies that we use affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting and reporting policies are critical to an understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition and, in some cases, the application of these policies can be significantly affected by the estimates, judgments and assumptions made by management during the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting and reporting policies we have identified as fundamental to a full understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition are described below. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about our accounting policies. Valuation of Investments The most significant component of our investments is our Available for Sale securities, which we carry at fair value within our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair value of our Available for Sale securities at December 31, 2011 was primarily obtained from third party pricing sources. We record unrealized securities gains (losses) in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of impacts to DAC, DSIC, certain benefit reserves and income taxes. We recognize gains and losses in results of operations upon disposition of the securities. Effective January 1, 2009, we early adopted an accounting standard that significantly changed our accounting policy regarding the timing and amount of other than temporary impairments for Available for Sale securities. When the fair value of an investment is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether or not: (i) we have the intent to sell the security (made a decision to sell) or (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before its anticipated recovery. If either of these conditions is met, an other than temporary impairment is considered to have occurred and we must recognize an other than temporary impairment for the difference between the investments amortized cost basis and its fair value through earnings. For securities that do not meet the above criteria, and we do not expect to recover a securitys amortized cost basis, the security is also considered other than temporarily impaired. For these securities, we separate the total impairment into the credit loss component and the amount of the loss related to other factors. The amount of the total other than temporary impairment related to credit loss is recognized in earnings. The amount of the total other than temporary impairment related to other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income, net of impacts to DAC, DSIC, certain benefit reserves and income taxes. For Available for Sale securities that have recognized an other than temporary impairment through earnings, if through subsequent evaluation there is a sustained increase in the cash flow expected, the difference between the amortized cost basis and the cash flows expected to be collected is accreted as interest income. Subsequent increases and decreases in the fair value of Available for Sale securities are included in other comprehensive income. For all securities that are considered temporarily impaired, we do not intend to sell these securities (have not made a decision to sell) and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. We believe that we will collect all principal and interest due on all investments that have amortized cost in excess of fair value that are considered only temporarily impaired. Factors we consider in determining whether declines in the fair value of fixed maturity securities are other than temporary include: (i) the extent to which the market value is below amortized cost; (ii) the duration of time in which there has been 44 Table of Contents a significant decline in value; (iii) fundamental analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and overall financial condition of the issuer; and (iv) market events that could impact credit ratings, economic and business climate, litigation and government actions, and similar external business factors. In order to determine the amount of the credit loss component for corporate debt securities considered other than temporarily impaired, a best estimate of the present value of cash flows expected to be collected discounted at the securitys effective interest rate is compared to the amortized cost basis of the security. The significant inputs to cash flow projections consider potential debt restructuring terms, projected cash flows available to pay creditors and our position in the debtors overall capital structure. For structured investments (e.g., residential mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities and other structured investments), we also consider factors such as overall deal structure and our position within the structure, quality of underlying collateral, delinquencies and defaults, loss severities, recoveries, prepayments and cumulative loss projections in assessing potential other than temporary impairments of these investments. Based upon these factors, securities that have indicators of potential other than temporary impairment are subject to detailed review by management. Securities for which declines are considered temporary continue to be carefully monitored by management. Deferred Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducement Costs For our annuity and life, disability income and long term care insurance products, our DAC and DSIC balances at any reporting date are supported by projections that show management expects there to be adequate premiums or estimated gross profits after that date to amortize the remaining DAC and DSIC balances. These projections are inherently uncertain because they require management to make assumptions about financial markets, anticipated mortality and morbidity levels and policyholder behavior over periods extending well into the future. Projection periods used for our annuity products are typically 30 to 50 years. Projection periods for our life insurance and long term care insurance products are often 50 years or longer and projection periods for our disability income products can be up to 45 years. Management regularly monitors financial market conditions and actual policyholder behavior experience and compares them to its assumptions. For annuity and UL insurance products, the assumptions made in projecting future results and calculating the DAC balance and DAC amortization expense are managements best estimates. Management is required to update these assumptions whenever it appears that, based on actual experience or other evidence, earlier estimates should be revised. When assumptions are changed, the percentage of estimated gross profits used to amortize DAC might also change. A change in the required amortization percentage is applied retrospectively; an increase in amortization percentage will result in a decrease in the DAC balance and an increase in DAC amortization expense, while a decrease in amortization percentage will result in an increase in the DAC balance and a decrease in DAC amortization expense. The impact on results of operations of changing assumptions can be either positive or negative in any particular period and is reflected in the period in which such changes are made. For products with associated DSIC, the same policy applies in calculating the DSIC balance and periodic DSIC amortization. For other life, disability income and long term care insurance products, the assumptions made in calculating our DAC balance and DAC amortization expense are consistent with those used in determining the liabilities and, therefore, are intended to provide for adverse deviations in experience and are revised only if management concludes experience will be so adverse that DAC are not recoverable. If management concludes that DAC are not recoverable, DAC are reduced to the amount that is recoverable based on best estimate assumptions and there is a corresponding expense recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. For annuity and life, disability income and long term care insurance products, key assumptions underlying these long term projections include interest rates (both earning rates on invested assets and rates credited to contractholder and policyholder accounts), equity market performance, mortality and morbidity rates and the rates at which policyholders are expected to surrender their contracts, make withdrawals from their contracts and make additional deposits to their contracts. Assumptions about earned and credited interest rates are the primary factors used to project interest margins, while assumptions about equity and bond market performance are the primary factors used to project client asset value growth rates, and assumptions about surrenders, withdrawals and deposits comprise projected persistency rates. Management must also make assumptions to project maintenance expenses associated with servicing our annuity and insurance businesses during the DAC amortization period. The client asset value growth rates are the rates at which variable annuity and VUL insurance contract values invested in separate accounts are assumed to appreciate in the future. The rates used vary by equity and fixed income investments. Management reviews and, where appropriate, adjusts its assumptions with respect to client asset value growth rates on a regular basis. The long term client asset value growth rates are based on assumed gross annual returns of 9% for equity funds and 6% for fixed income funds. We typically use a five year mean reversion process as a guideline in setting near term equity fund growth rates based on a long term view of financial market performance as well as recent actual performance. The suggested near term equity fund growth rate is reviewed quarterly to ensure consistency with managements assessment of anticipated equity market performance. 45 Table of Contents A decrease of 100 basis points in various rate assumptions is likely to result in an increase in DAC and DSIC amortization and an increase in benefits and claims expense from variable annuity guarantees. The following table presents the estimated impact to current period pretax income: Estimated Impact to Pretax Income(1) (in millions) Decrease in future near and long term fixed income returns by 100 basis points $ (38 ) Decrease in future near term equity fund growth returns by 100 basis points $ (37 ) Decrease in future long term equity fund growth returns by 100 basis points (27 ) Decrease in future near and long term equity returns by 100 basis points $ (64 ) (1)An increase in the above assumptions by 100 basis points would result in an increase to pretax income for approximately the same amount. We monitor other principal DAC and DSIC amortization assumptions, such as persistency, mortality, morbidity, interest margin and maintenance expense levels each quarter and, when assessed independently, each could impact our DAC and DSIC balances. The analysis of DAC and DSIC balances and the corresponding amortization is a dynamic process that considers all relevant factors and assumptions described previously. Unless management identifies a significant deviation over the course of the quarterly monitoring, management reviews and updates these DAC and DSIC amortization assumptions annually in the third quarter of each year. An assessment of sensitivity associated with changes in any single assumption would not necessarily be an indicator of future results. Future Policy Benefits and Claims Fixed Annuities and Variable Annuity Guarantees Future policy benefits and claims related to fixed annuities and variable annuity guarantees include liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable deferred annuities, guaranteed benefits associated with variable annuities, equity indexed annuities and fixed annuities in a payout status. Liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable deferred annuities are equal to accumulation values, which are the cumulative gross deposits and credited interest less withdrawals and various charges. The majority of the variable annuity contracts offered by us contain guaranteed minimum death benefit ("GMDB") provisions. When market values of the customers accounts decline, the death benefit payable on a contract with a GMDB may exceed the contract accumulation value. We also offer variable annuities with death benefit provisions that gross up the amount payable by a certain percentage of contract earnings which are referred to as gain gross up benefits. In addition, we offer contracts with guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit ("GMWB") and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit ("GMAB") provisions and, until May 2007, we offered contracts containing guaranteed minimum income benefit ("GMIB") provisions. In determining the liabilities for GMDB, GMIB and the life contingent benefits associated with GMWB, we project these benefits and contract assessments using actuarial models to simulate various equity market scenarios. Significant assumptions made in projecting future benefits and assessments relate to customer asset value growth rates, mortality, persistency and investment margins and are consistent with those used for DAC asset valuation for the same contracts. As with DAC, management reviews, and where appropriate, adjusts its assumptions each quarter. Unless management identifies a material deviation over the course of quarterly monitoring, management reviews and updates these assumptions annually in the third quarter of each year. The amounts in the table above in "Deferred Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducement Costs" include the estimated impact to benefits and claims expense related to variable annuity guarantees resulting from a decrease of 100 basis points in various rate assumptions. The GMDB liability is determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected contract accumulation value and recognizing the excess over the estimated meaningful life based on expected assessments (e.g., mortality and expense fees, contractual administrative charges and similar fees). If elected by the contract owner and after a stipulated waiting period from contract issuance, a GMIB guarantees a minimum lifetime annuity based on a specified rate of contract accumulation value growth and predetermined annuity purchase rates. The GMIB liability is determined each period by estimating the expected value of annuitization benefits in excess of the projected contract accumulation value at the date of annuitization and recognizing the excess over the estimated meaningful life based on expected assessments. The embedded derivatives related to GMAB and the non life contingent benefits associated with GMWB provisions are recorded at fair value. See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the fair value measurement of embedded derivatives. The liability for the life contingent benefits associated with GMWB provisions is 46 Table of Contents determined in the same way as the GMDB liability. Significant assumptions made in projecting future benefits and fees relate to persistency and benefit utilization. As with DAC, management reviews, and where appropriate, adjusts its assumptions each quarter. Unless management identifies a material deviation over the course of quarterly monitoring, management reviews and updates these assumptions annually in the third quarter of each year. The changes in both the fair values of the GMWB and GMAB embedded derivatives and the liability for life contingent benefits are reflected in benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses. Liabilities for equity indexed annuities are equal to the accumulation of host contract values covering guaranteed benefits and the fair value of embedded equity options. Liabilities for fixed annuities in a benefit or payout status are based on future estimated payments using established industry mortality tables and interest rates, ranging from 4.25% to 9.5% at December 31, 2011, depending on year of issue, with an average rate of approximately 5.47%. Life, Disability Income and Long Term Care Insurance Future policy benefits and claims related to life, disability income and long term care insurance include liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable universal life policies, liabilities for indexed accounts of indexed universal life ("IUL") products, liabilities for unpaid amounts on reported claims, estimates of benefits payable on claims incurred but not yet reported and estimates of benefits that will become payable on term life, whole life, disability income and long term care policies as claims are incurred in the future. Liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable universal life insurance are equal to accumulation values. Accumulation values are the cumulative gross deposits and credited interest less various contractual expense and mortality charges and less amounts withdrawn by policyholders. Liabilities for indexed accounts of IUL products are equal to the accumulation of host contract values covering guaranteed benefits and the fair value of embedded equity options. A portion of our fixed and variable universal life contracts have product features that result in profits followed by losses from the insurance component of the contract. These profits followed by losses can be generated by the cost structure of the product or secondary guarantees in the contract. The secondary guarantee ensures that, subject to specified conditions, the policy will not terminate and will continue to provide a death benefit even if there is insufficient policy value to cover the monthly deductions and charges. In determining the liability for contracts with profits followed by losses, we project benefits and contract assessments using actuarial models. Significant assumptions made in projecting future benefits and assessments relate to customer asset value growth rates, mortality, persistency and investment margins and are consistent with those used for DAC asset valuation for the same contracts. As with DAC, management reviews, and where appropriate, adjusts its assumptions each quarter. Unless management identifies a material deviation over the course of quarterly monitoring, management reviews and updates these assumptions annually in the third quarter of each year. The liability for these future losses is determined by estimating the death benefits in excess of account value and recognizing the excess over the estimated meaningful life based on expected assessments (e.g. cost of insurance charges, contractual administrative charges, similar fees and investment margin). See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the liability for contracts with secondary guarantees. Liabilities for unpaid amounts on reported life insurance claims are equal to the death benefits payable under the policies. Liabilities for unpaid amounts on reported disability income and long term care claims include any periodic or other benefit amounts due and accrued, along with estimates of the present value of obligations for continuing benefit payments. These amounts are calculated based on claim continuance tables which estimate the likelihood an individual will continue to be eligible for benefits. Present values are calculated at interest rates established when claims are incurred. Anticipated claim continuance rates are based on established industry tables, adjusted as appropriate for our experience. Interest rates used with disability income claims ranged from 3.0% to 8.0% at December 31, 2011, with an average rate of 4.5%. Interest rates used with long term care claims ranged from 4.0% to 7.0% at December 31, 2011, with an average rate of 4.2%. Liabilities for estimated benefits payable on claims that have been incurred but not yet reported are based on periodic analysis of the actual time lag between when a claim occurs and when it is reported. Liabilities for estimates of benefits that will become payable on future claims on term life, whole life, disability income and long term care policies are based on the net level premium method, using anticipated premium payments, mortality and morbidity rates, policy persistency and interest rates earned on assets supporting the liability. Anticipated mortality and morbidity rates are based on established industry mortality and morbidity tables, with modifications based on our experience. Anticipated premium payments and persistency rates vary by policy form, issue age, policy duration and certain other pricing factors. Anticipated interest rates for term and whole life ranged from 4.0% to 10.0% at December 31, 2011, depending on policy form, issue year and policy duration. Anticipated interest rates for disability income policies 47 Table of Contents ranged from 4.0% to 7.5% at December 31, 2011, depending on policy form, issue year and policy duration. Anticipated interest rates for long term care policy reserves can vary by plan and year and ranged from 5.8% to 9.4% at December 31, 2011. Where applicable, benefit amounts expected to be recoverable from reinsurance companies who share in the risk are separately recorded as reinsurance recoverable within receivables. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to various market risks. Examples include index options, interest rate swaps and swaptions, total return swaps, and futures that economically hedge the equity and interest rate exposure of derivatives embedded in certain annuity, life and certificate liabilities, as well as exposure to price risk arising from affiliated mutual fund seed money investments. All derivatives are recorded at fair value. The fair value of our derivative instruments is determined using either market quotes or valuation models that are based upon the net present value of estimated future cash flows and incorporate current market observable inputs to the extent available. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on its intended use and the resulting hedge designation, if any. We primarily use derivatives as economic hedges that are not designated as accounting hedges or do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. We occasionally designate derivatives as (i) hedges of changes in the fair value of assets, liabilities or firm commitments ("fair value hedges"), (ii) hedges of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability ("cash flow hedges") or (iii) hedges of foreign currency exposures of net investments in foreign operations ("net investment hedges in foreign operations"). Our policy is to not offset fair value amounts recognized for derivatives and collateral arrangements executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangement. For derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as accounting hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in current period earnings. The changes in fair value of derivatives hedging variable annuity living benefits and certain variable annuity death benefits, when applicable, are included within benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses. The changes in fair value of derivatives hedging equity indexed annuities and IUL products are included within interest credited to fixed accounts and the changes in fair value of derivatives hedging stock market certificates are included within banking and deposit interest expense. The changes in fair value of derivatives hedging equity price risk of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. common stock granted as part of the Ameriprise Financial Franchise Advisor Deferred Equity Plan are included in distribution expenses. The changes in fair value of all other derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges are a component of net investment income. For derivative instruments that qualify as fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivatives, as well as changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments, are recognized on a net basis in current period earnings. The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted for the change in fair value from the designated hedged risk. If a fair value hedge designation is removed or the hedge is terminated prior to maturity, previous adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged item are recognized into earnings over the remaining life of the hedged item. For derivative instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instruments is reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified into earnings when the hedged item or transaction impacts earnings. The amount that is reclassified into earnings is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Operations with the hedged instrument or transaction impact. Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss is reported in current period earnings as a component of net investment income. If a hedge designation is removed or a hedge is terminated prior to maturity, the amount previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is reclassified to earnings over the period that the hedged item impacts earnings. For any hedge relationships that are discontinued because the forecasted transaction is not expected to occur according to the original strategy, any related amounts previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are recognized in earnings immediately. For derivative instruments that qualify as net investment hedges in foreign operations, the effective portion of the change in fair value of the derivatives is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as part of the foreign currency translation adjustment. Any ineffective portion of net investment hedges in foreign operations is recognized in net investment income during the period of change. For further details on the types of derivatives we use and how we account for them, see Note 2 and Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Tax Accounting Income taxes, as reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements, represent the net amount of income taxes that we expect to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions in connection with our operations. We provide for income taxes based on amounts that we believe we will ultimately owe taking into account the recognition and measurement for uncertain tax positions. Inherent in the provision for income taxes are estimates and judgments regarding the tax treatment 48 Table of Contents of certain items. In the event that the ultimate tax treatment of items differs from our estimates, we may be required to significantly change the provision for income taxes recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with the provision for income taxes, our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect certain amounts related to deferred tax assets and liabilities, which result from temporary differences between the assets and liabilities measured for financial statement purposes versus the assets and liabilities measured for tax return purposes. Included in deferred tax assets are significant capital losses that have been recognized for financial statement purposes but not yet for tax return purposes as well as future deductible capital losses realized for tax return purposes. Under current U.S. federal income tax law, capital losses generally must be used against capital gain income within five years of the year in which the capital losses are recognized for tax purposes. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for any portion of our deferred tax assets that management believes will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in determining if a valuation allowance should be established, and the amount of such allowance if required. Factors used in making this determination include estimates relating to the performance of the business including the ability to generate capital gains. Consideration is given to, among other things in making this determination, (i) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards, (ii) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, (iii) taxable income in prior carryback years, and (iv) tax planning strategies. Management may need to identify and implement appropriate planning strategies to ensure our ability to realize our deferred tax assets and avoid the establishment of a valuation allowance with respect to such assets. Management believes it is more likely than not that we will not realize the full benefit of certain state net operating losses, and therefore a valuation allowance of $5 million has been established as of December 31, 2011. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information regarding recent accounting pronouncements and their expected impact on our future consolidated results of operations and financial condition, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We adopted new accounting rules for the deferral of insurance and annuity acquisition costs on January 1, 2012 on a retrospective basis. The change reduced our DAC asset by $2.0 billion, which decreased retained earnings by $1.4 billion after tax. The retrospective adoption increased our return on equity from continuing operations excluding accumulated other comprehensive income by 2.4% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011. The adoption will not impact our strong excess capital position or cash flow. We estimate that the adoption will have a marginal impact to operating earnings in 2012. Sources of Revenues and Expenses Management and Financial Advice Fees Management and financial advice fees relate primarily to fees earned from managing mutual funds, separate account and wrap account assets and institutional investments, as well as fees earned from providing financial advice and administrative services (including transfer agent, administration and custodial fees earned from providing services to retail mutual funds). Management and financial advice fees also include mortality and expense risk fees earned on separate account assets. Our management fees are generally accrued daily and collected monthly. A significant portion of our management fees are calculated as a percentage of the fair value of our managed assets. The substantial majority of our managed assets are valued by third party pricing services vendors based upon observable market data. The selection of our third party pricing services vendors and the reliability of their prices are subject to certain governance procedures, such as exception reporting, subsequent transaction testing, and annual due diligence of our vendors, which includes assessing the vendors valuation qualifications, control environment, analysis of asset class specific valuation methodologies and understanding of sources of market observable assumptions. Several of our mutual funds had a performance incentive adjustment ("PIA"). The PIA increased or decreased the level of management fees received based on the specific funds relative performance as measured against a designated external index. We discontinued the PIA earned by our domestic mutual funds during 2011. We recognized PIA revenue monthly on a 12 month rolling performance basis. We may also receive performance based incentive fees from hedge funds, Threadneedle Open Ended Investment Companies ("OEICs"), or other structured investments that we manage. The annual performance fees for structured investments are recognized as revenue at the time the performance fee is finalized or no longer subject to adjustment. All other performance fees are based on a full contract year and are final at the end of the contract year. Any performance fees received are not subject to repayment or any other clawback provisions and approximately 1% of managed assets as of December 31, 2011 are subject to "high water marks" whereby we will not earn incentive fees even if the fund has positive returns until it surpasses the previous high water mark. Employee benefit plan and institutional investment management and administration services fees are negotiated and are also generally 49 Table of Contents based on underlying asset values. Fees from financial planning and advice services are recognized when the financial plan is delivered. Distribution Fees Distribution fees primarily include point of sale fees (such as mutual fund front end sales loads) and asset based fees (such as 12b 1 distribution and shareholder service fees) that are generally based on a contractual percentage of assets and recognized when earned. Distribution fees also include amounts received under marketing support arrangements for sales of mutual funds and other companies products, such as through our wrap accounts, as well as surrender charges on fixed and variable universal life insurance and annuities. Net Investment Income Net investment income primarily includes interest income on fixed maturity securities classified as Available for Sale, commercial mortgage loans, policy loans, consumer loans, other investments and cash and cash equivalents; the changes in fair value of trading securities, certain derivatives and certain assets and liabilities of consolidated investment entities; the pro rata share of net income or loss on equity method investments; and realized gains and losses on the sale of securities and charges for other than temporary impairments of investments related to credit losses. Interest income is accrued as earned using the effective interest method, which makes an adjustment of the yield for security premiums and discounts on all performing fixed maturity securities classified as Available for Sale and commercial mortgage loans so that the related security or loan recognizes a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance throughout its term. Realized gains and losses on securities, other than trading securities and equity method investments, are recognized using the specific identification method on a trade date basis. Premiums Premiums include premiums on property casualty insurance, traditional life and health (disability income and long term care) insurance and immediate annuities with a life contingent feature. Premiums on auto and home insurance are net of reinsurance premiums and are recognized ratably over the coverage period. Premiums on traditional life and health insurance are net of reinsurance ceded and are recognized as revenue when due. Other Revenues Other revenues include certain charges assessed on fixed and variable universal life insurance and annuities, which consist of cost of insurance charges, net of reinsurance premiums and cost of reinsurance for UL insurance products, variable annuity guaranteed benefit rider charges and administration charges against contractholder accounts or balances. Premiums paid by fixed and variable universal life policyholders and annuity contractholders are considered deposits and are not included in revenue. Other revenues also include revenues related to certain consolidated limited partnerships. Banking and Deposit Interest Expense Banking and deposit interest expense primarily includes interest expense related to banking deposits and investment certificates. Additionally, banking and deposit interest expense includes interest related to non recourse debt of certain consolidated limited partnerships. The changes in fair value of stock market certificate embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging stock market certificates are included within banking and deposit interest expense. Distribution Expenses Distribution expenses primarily include compensation paid to our financial advisors, registered representatives, third party distributors and wholesalers, net of amounts capitalized and amortized as part of DAC. The amounts capitalized and amortized are based on actual distribution costs. The majority of these costs, such as advisor and wholesaler compensation, vary directly with the level of sales. Distribution expenses also include marketing support and other distribution and administration related payments made to affiliated and unaffiliated distributors of products provided by our affiliates. The majority of these expenses vary with the level of sales, or assets held, by these distributors, and the remainder is fixed. Distribution expenses also include wholesaling costs. Interest Credited to Fixed Accounts Interest credited to fixed accounts represents amounts earned by contractholders and policyholders on fixed account values associated with fixed and variable universal life and annuity contracts. The changes in fair value of equity indexed annuity and IUL embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging these products are included within interest credited to fixed accounts. Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses consist of amounts paid and changes in liabilities held for anticipated future benefit payments under insurance policies and annuity contracts, along with costs to process and pay such 50 Table of Contents amounts. Amounts are net of benefit payments recovered or expected to be recovered under reinsurance contracts. Benefits under variable annuity guarantees include the changes in fair value of GMWB and GMAB embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging these benefits, as well as the changes in fair value of derivatives hedging GMDB provisions. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses also include amortization of DSIC. Amortization of DAC Direct sales commissions and other costs capitalized as DAC are amortized over time. For annuity and UL contracts, DAC are amortized based on projections of estimated gross profits over amortization periods equal to the approximate life of the business. For other insurance products, DAC are generally amortized as a percentage of premiums over amortization periods equal to the premium paying period. For certain mutual fund products, DAC are generally amortized over fixed periods on a straight line basis adjusted for redemptions. See "Deferred Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducement Costs" under "Critical Accounting Policies" for further information on DAC. Interest and Debt Expense Interest and debt expense primarily includes interest on corporate debt and debt of consolidated investment entities, the impact of interest rate hedging activities and amortization of debt issuance costs. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense includes compensation, share based awards and other benefits for employees (other than employees directly related to distribution, including financial advisors), integration costs, professional and consultant fees, information technology, facilities and equipment, advertising and promotion, legal and regulatory and corporate related expenses. Assets Under Management and Administration Assets under management ("AUM") include assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of the Columbia funds and Threadneedle funds, assets of institutional clients and assets of clients in our affiliated advisor platform held in wrap accounts as well as assets managed by sub advisers selected by us. AUM also includes certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we provide investment management services and recognize management fees in our Asset Management segment, such as the assets of the general account, RiverSource Variable Product funds held in separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries and client assets of CIEs. These assets do not include assets under advisement, for which we provide model portfolios but do not have full discretionary investment authority. Assets under administration ("AUA") include assets for which we provide administrative services such as client assets invested in other companies products that we offer outside of our wrap accounts. These assets include those held in clients brokerage accounts. We generally record fees received from administered assets as distribution fees. We do not exercise management discretion over these assets and do not earn a management fee. These assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. AUA also includes certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we do not provide investment management services and do not recognize management fees, such as investments in non affiliated funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries. These assets do not include assets under advisement, for which we provide model portfolios but do not have full discretionary investment authority. The following table presents detail regarding our AUM and AUA: December 31, 2011 2010 Change (in billions) Assets Under Management and Administration Advice & Wealth Management AUM $ 104.7 $ 97.5 7 % Asset Management AUM 435.5 456.8 (5 ) Eliminations (12.6 ) (12.4 ) (2 ) Total Assets Under Management 527.6 541.9 (3 ) Total Assets Under Administration 103.7 105.6 (2 ) Total AUM and AUA $ 631.3 $ 647.5 (3 )% Total AUM decreased $14.3 billion, or 3%, to $527.6 billion as of December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year primarily due to Asset Management AUM net outflows, partially offset by wrap account net inflows. 51  Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 Management believes that operating measures, which exclude net realized gains or losses; the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization; integration and restructuring charges; income (loss) from discontinued operations; and the impact of consolidating CIEs, best reflect the underlying performance of our core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. See our discussion on the use of these non GAAP measures in the Overview section above. The following table presents our consolidated results of operations: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 4,537 $ (49 ) $ 4,586 $ 3,784 $ (38 ) $ 3,822 $ 764 20 % Distribution fees 1,573 1,573 1,447 1,447 126 9 Net investment income 2,046 97 1,949 2,309 308 2,001 (52 ) (3 ) Premiums 1,220 1,220 1,179 1,179 41 3 Other revenues 863 94 769 863 125 738 31 4 Total revenues 10,239 142 10,097 9,582 395 9,187 910 10 Banking and deposit interest expense 47 47 70 70 (23 ) (33 ) Total net revenues 10,192 142 10,050 9,512 395 9,117 933 10 Expenses Distribution expenses 2,497 2,497 2,065 2,065 432 21 Interest credited to fixed accounts 853 853 909 909 (56 ) (6 ) Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 1,557 67 1,490 1,750 9 1,741 (251 ) (14 ) Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 618 (8 ) 626 127 16 111 515 NM Interest and debt expense 317 221 96 290 181 109 (13 ) (12 ) General and administrative expense 2,965 116 2,849 2,737 129 2,608 241 9 Total expenses 8,807 396 8,411 7,878 335 7,543 868 12 Income from continuing operations before income tax provision 1,385 (254 ) 1,639 1,634 60 1,574 65 4 Income tax provision 355 (52 ) 407 350 (36 ) 386 21 5 Income from continuing operations 1,030 (202 ) 1,232 1,284 96 1,188 44 4 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (60 ) (60 ) (24 ) (24 ) Net income 970 (262 ) 1,232 1,260 72 1,188 44 4 Less: Net income (loss) attributable to non controlling interests (106 ) (106 ) 163 163 Net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ 1,076 $ (156 ) $ 1,232 $ 1,097 $ (91 ) $ 1,188 $ 44 4 % NMNot Meaningful. (1)Includes the elimination of management fees we earn for services provided to the CIEs and the related expense; revenues and expenses of the CIEs; net realized gains or losses; the market impact on variable annuity living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization; integration and restructuring charges; and income (loss) from discontinued operations. Income tax provision is calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35% on applicable adjustments. 52 Table of Contents The following table presents the components of the adjustments in the table above: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ (49 ) $ $ (49 ) $ (38 ) $ $ (38 ) Distribution fees Net investment income 91 6 97 275 33 308 Premiums Other revenues 94 94 125 125 Total revenues 136 6 142 362 33 395 Banking and deposit interest expense Total net revenues 136 6 142 362 33 395 Expenses Distribution expenses Interest credited to fixed accounts Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 67 67 9 9 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs (8 ) (8 ) 16 16 Interest and debt expense 221 221 181 181 General and administrative expense 21 95 116 18 111 129 Total expenses 242 154 396 199 136 335 Income from continuing operations before income tax provision (106 ) (148 ) (254 ) 163 (103 ) 60 Income tax provision (52 ) (52 ) (36 ) (36 ) Income from continuing operations (106 ) (96 ) (202 ) 163 (67 ) 96 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (60 ) (60 ) (24 ) (24 ) Net income (106 ) (156 ) (262 ) 163 (91 ) 72 Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (106 ) (106 ) 163 163 Net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ $ (156 ) $ (156 ) $ $ (91 ) $ (91 ) (1)Other adjustments include net realized gains or losses; the market impact on variable annuity living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization; integration and restructuring charges; and income (loss) from discontinued operations. The following table presents a reconciliation of operating earnings per diluted share: Years Ended December 31, Per Diluted Share Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2011 2010 (in millions, except per share amounts) Income from continuing operations $ 1,030 $ 1,284 Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (106 ) 163 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Ameriprise Financial 1,136 1,121 $ 4.61 $ 4.27 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (60 ) (24 ) (0.24 ) (0.09 ) Net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial 1,076 1,097 4.37 4.18 Operating adjustments, after tax 156 91 0.63 0.35 Operating earnings $ 1,232 $ 1,188 $ 5.00 $ 4.53 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 241.4 257.4 Diluted 246.3 262.3 53 Table of Contents The following table presents a reconciliation of operating return on equity excluding CIEs and accumulated other comprehensive income: Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2011 2010 (in millions) Net income from continuing operations attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ 1,136 $ 1,121 Less: Adjustments(1) (96 ) (67 ) Operating earnings $ 1,232 $ 1,188 Total Ameriprise Financial, Inc. shareholders equity $ 10,470 $ 10,309 Less: Assets and liabilities held for sale 29 102 Less: Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax 603 540 Total Ameriprise Financial, Inc. shareholders equity from continuing operations excluding AOCI 9,838 9,667 Less: Equity impacts attributable to CIEs 478 455 Operating equity $ 9,360 $ 9,212 Return on equity from continuing operations, excluding AOCI 11.5 % 11.6 % Operating return on equity excluding CIEs and AOCI(2) 13.2 % 12.9 % (1)Adjustments reflect the trailing twelve months sum of after tax net realized gains or losses; the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, DAC and DSIC amortization; and integration and restructuring charges. (2)Operating return on equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income is calculated using the trailing twelve months of earnings excluding the after tax net realized gains or losses; the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, DAC and DSIC amortization; integration and restructuring charges; and discontinued operations in the numerator, and Ameriprise Financial, Inc. shareholders equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income; the impact of CIEs; and the assets and liabilities held for sale using a five point average of quarter end equity in the denominator. Overall Net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial decreased $21 million, or 2%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year. Net income from continuing operations attributable to Ameriprise Financial increased $15 million, or 1%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year. Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $60 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 included a $77 million after tax charge related to previously disclosed legal expenses and a $14 million after tax gain on the sale of Securities America. Operating earnings exclude net realized gains or losses; the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization; integration and restructuring charges; income (loss) of discontinued operations; and the impact of consolidating CIEs. Operating earnings increased $44 million, or 4%, to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.2 billion for the prior year reflecting higher revenues from business growth and an additional four months of Columbia Management results, partially offset by the impact of updating valuation assumptions and models, the market impacts on DAC and DSIC amortization and the negative impact of the low interest rate environment. The market impact on DAC and DSIC amortization was a $17 million pretax charge for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to a $34 million pretax benefit for the prior year. Operating earnings will continue to be negatively impacted by the ongoing low interest rate environment in 2012. In addition to continuing spread compression in our interest sensitive product lines throughout the year, there is also the potential for interest rate related impacts to DAC and DSIC amortization and the level of reserves as a result of our ongoing review of various actuarial related assumptions, which could be material. The total pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses for 2011 attributable to the review of valuation assumptions and models on an operating basis were as follows: Segment Pretax Benefit (Charge) Other Revenues Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Amortization of DAC Total (in millions) Valuation assumptions and model changes: Annuities $ $ 40 $ (65 ) $ (25 ) Protection (20 ) 4 2 (14 ) Total $ (20 ) $ 44 $ (63 ) $ (39 ) 54 Table of Contents The total pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses for 2010 attributable to the review of valuation assumptions and models on an operating basis were as follows: Segment Pretax Benefit (Charge) Other Revenues Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Amortization of DAC Total (in millions) Valuation assumptions and model changes: Annuities $ $ (256 ) $ 353 $ 97 Protection (20 ) (44 ) 22 (42 ) Total $ (20 ) $ (300 ) $ 375 $ 55 Net Revenues Net revenues increased $680 million, or 7%, to $10.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $9.5 billion for the prior year. Operating net revenues exclude net realized gains or losses and revenues or losses of the CIEs and include the fees we earn from services provided to the CIEs. Operating net revenues increased $933 million, or 10%, to $10.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $9.1 billion for the prior year driven by growth in asset based fees from net inflows in wrap account assets, the Columbia Management Acquisition and increased client activity. Management and financial advice fees increased $753 million, or 20%, to $4.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $3.8 billion for the prior year. Operating management and financial advice fees include the fees we earn from services provided to the CIEs. Operating management and financial advice fees increased $764 million, or 20%, to $4.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $3.8 billion for the prior year primarily due to an additional four months of business resulting from the Columbia Management Acquisition, as well as higher wrap account fees and variable annuity fees. Wrap account assets increased $5.9 billion, or 6%, to $103.4 billion at December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year due to net inflows. Average variable annuities contract accumulation values increased $6.4 billion, or 12%, from the prior year due to higher average equity market levels, as well as net inflows. Distribution fees increased $126 million, or 9%, to $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.4 billion for the prior year primarily due to higher asset based fees driven by the Columbia Management Acquisition and net inflows in wrap account assets, as well as increased client activity. Net investment income decreased $263 million, or 11%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.3 billion for the prior year. Net investment income for the year ended December 31, 2011 included a $91 million gain for changes in the assets and liabilities of CIEs, primarily debt and underlying syndicated loans, compared to a $275 million gain in the prior year. Operating net investment income excludes net realized gains or losses and changes in the assets and liabilities of CIEs. Operating net investment income decreased $52 million, or 3%, to $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.0 billion for the prior year primarily due to a decrease in investment income on fixed maturity securities driven by lower invested assets and lower interest rates. The decrease in invested assets compared to the prior year resulted from net outflows in certificates driven by the low interest rate environment and lower investments in annuity general account assets due to the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program in the second quarter of 2010 and lower interest sensitive fixed annuity account balances. These negative impacts were partially offset by $43 million of additional bond discount accretion investment income related to prior periods resulting from revisions to the accounting classification of certain structured securities in the third quarter of 2011. Premiums increased $41 million, or 3%, to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.2 billion for the prior year primarily due to growth in Auto and Home premiums driven by higher volumes, as well as higher sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies. Auto and Home policy counts increased 7% period over period. Other revenues remained flat at $863 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year. Operating other revenues exclude revenues of the CIEs. Operating other revenues increased $31 million, or 4%, to $769 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $738 million for the prior year due to higher fees from variable annuity guarantees driven by higher in force amounts. During the second quarter of 2011, we reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into earnings a $27 million gain on an interest rate hedge put in place in anticipation of issuing debt between December 2010 and June 2011. Operating other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 included a $25 million benefit from payments related to the Reserve Funds matter in the first quarter of 2010. Banking and deposit interest expense decreased $23 million, or 33%, to $47 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $70 million for the prior year primarily due to lower certificate balances, as well as a decrease in crediting rates on certificate products. 55 Table of Contents Expenses Total expenses increased $929 million, or 12%, to $8.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $7.9 billion for the prior year. Operating expenses exclude the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization; integration and restructuring charges; and expenses of the CIEs. Operating expenses increased $868 million, or 12%, to $8.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $7.5 billion for the prior year primarily due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions and models, the market impact on DAC and DSIC amortization, and increases in distribution expenses and general and administrative expense. Distribution expenses increased $432 million, or 21%, to $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.1 billion for the prior year as a result of the Columbia Management Acquisition, as well as higher advisor compensation from business growth. Interest credited to fixed accounts decreased $56 million, or 6%, to $853 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $909 million for the prior year driven by lower average variable annuities fixed sub account balances and a lower average crediting rate on interest sensitive fixed annuities, as well as lower average fixed annuity account balances. Average variable annuities fixed sub account balances decreased $580 million, or 11%, to $4.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year primarily due to the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program in the second quarter of 2010. The average fixed annuity crediting rate excluding capitalized interest decreased to 3.7% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 3.8% for the prior year. Average fixed annuities contract accumulation values decreased $265 million, or 2%, to $14.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year due to outflows. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses decreased $193 million, or 11%, to $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.8 billion for the prior year. Operating benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses, which exclude the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges and DSIC amortization, decreased $251 million, or 14%, to $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.7 billion for the prior year. Operating benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 included a benefit of $44 million from updating valuation assumptions and models compared to an expense of $300 million in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses related to our Auto and Home business increased from the prior year primarily due to $45 million of catastrophe losses in 2011 compared to $29 million in 2010, as well as higher auto liability reserves. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses related to our immediate annuities with life contingencies increased from the prior year due to an unfavorable change in reserves primarily driven by higher premiums. In addition, benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased as a result of higher UL claims and an increase in ongoing reserve levels for UL products with secondary guarantees compared to the prior year. The market impact to DSIC was an expense of $2 million in 2011 compared to a benefit of $3 million in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses for the prior year included a $21 million expense, net of DSIC, as a result of the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program. Amortization of DAC increased $491 million to $618 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $127 million for the prior year. Operating amortization of DAC, which excludes the DAC offset to the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, increased $515 million to $626 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $111 million for the prior year primarily due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions and models, as well as the market impact on amortization of DAC. Operating amortization of DAC in 2011 included an expense of $63 million from updating valuation assumptions and models compared to a benefit of $375 million in the prior year. The market impact on amortization of DAC was an expense of $15 million in 2011 compared to a benefit of $31 million in the prior year. Amortization of DAC for the year ended December 31, 2010 included a benefit of $19 million as a result of the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program. Interest and debt expense increased $27 million, or 9%, to $317 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $290 million for the prior year. Operating interest and debt expense, which excludes interest expense on CIE debt, decreased $13 million, or 12%, to $96 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $109 million in the prior year primarily due to lower average debt balances. General and administrative expense increased $228 million, or 8%, to $3.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.7 billion for the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense excludes integration and restructuring charges and expenses of the CIEs. Integration and restructuring charges decreased $16 million to $95 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $111 million for the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense increased $241 million, or 9%, to $2.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.6 billion for the prior year primarily reflecting an additional four months of ongoing expenses from the Columbia Management Acquisition, as well as higher compensation expense and an increase in advertising and investment spending compared to the prior year. 56 Table of Contents Income Taxes Our effective tax rate on income from continuing operations including income attributable to noncontrolling interests was 25.6% for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 21.5% for the prior year. Our effective tax rate on income from continuing operations excluding income attributable to noncontrolling interests was 23.8% for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Our operating effective tax rate was 24.8% for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 24.5% for the prior year. It is possible there will be corporate tax reform in the next few years. While impossible to predict, corporate tax reform is likely to include a reduction in the corporate tax rate coupled with reductions in tax preferred items. Potential tax reform may also affect the U.S. tax rules regarding international operations. Any changes could have a material impact on our income tax expense and deferred tax balances. The following table presents a reconciliation of our operating effective tax rate: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 GAAP Operating GAAP Operating (in millions) Income from continuing operations before income tax provision $ 1,385 $ 1,639 $ 1,634 $ 1,574 Less: Pretax income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (106 ) 163 Income from continuing operations before income tax provision excluding CIEs $ 1,491 $ 1,639 $ 1,471 $ 1,574 Income tax provision from continuing operations $ 355 $ 407 $ 350 $ 386 Effective tax rate 25.6 % 24.8 % 21.5 % 24.5 % Effective tax rate excluding noncontrolling interests 23.8 % 24.8 % 23.8 % 24.5 % 57  Table of Contents Results of Operations by Segment Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 The following table presents summary financial information by segment: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating (in millions) Advice & Wealth Management Net revenues $ 3,708 $ (5 ) $ 3,713 $ 3,343 $ 1 $ 3,342 Expenses 3,307 3,307 3,027 7 3,020 Pretax income $ 401 $ (5 ) $ 406 $ 316 $ (6 ) $ 322 Asset Management Net revenues $ 2,900 $ 3 $ 2,897 $ 2,368 $ 3 $ 2,365 Expenses 2,464 95 2,369 2,050 95 1,955 Pretax income $ 436 $ (92 ) $ 528 $ 318 $ (92 ) $ 410 Annuities Net revenues $ 2,631 $ 1 $ 2,630 $ 2,500 $ 9 $ 2,491 Expenses 2,110 59 2,051 1,852 25 1,827 Pretax income $ 521 $ (58 ) $ 579 $ 648 $ (16 ) $ 664 Protection Net revenues $ 2,072 $ 3 $ 2,069 $ 2,047 $ 1 $ 2,046 Expenses 1,702 1,702 1,644 1,644 Pretax income $ 370 $ 3 $ 367 $ 403 $ 1 $ 402 Corporate & Other Net revenues $ 192 $ 189 $ 3 $ 423 $ 419 $ 4 Expenses 535 291 244 474 246 228 Pretax loss (343 ) (102 ) (241 ) (51 ) 173 (224 ) Less: Pretax income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (106 ) (106 ) 163 163 Pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ (237 ) $ 4 $ (241 ) $ (214 ) $ 10 $ (224 ) Eliminations Net revenues $ (1,311 ) $ (49 ) $ (1,262 ) $ (1,169 ) $ (38 ) $ (1,131 ) Expenses (1,311 ) (49 ) (1,262 ) (1,169 ) (38 ) (1,131 ) Pretax income $ $ $ $ $ $ (1)Includes the elimination of management fees we earn for services provided to the CIEs and the related expense; revenues and expenses of the CIEs; net realized gains or losses; the market impact on variable annuity living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization; and integration and restructuring charges. Advice & Wealth Management Our Advice & Wealth Management segment provides financial planning and advice, as well as brokerage and banking services, primarily to retail clients through our affiliated advisors. Our affiliated advisors have access to a diversified selection of both affiliated and non affiliated products to help clients meet their financial needs. A significant portion of revenues in this segment is fee based, driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on invested assets primarily from certificate and banking products. This segment earns revenues (distribution fees) for distributing non affiliated products and earns intersegment revenues (distribution fees) for distributing our affiliated products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include expenses for investment management services provided by the Asset Management segment. In addition to purchases of affiliated and non affiliated mutual funds and other securities on a stand alone basis, clients may purchase mutual funds, among other securities, in connection with investment advisory fee based "wrap account" programs or services, and pay fees based on a percentage of their assets. 58 Table of Contents The following table presents the changes in wrap account assets for the years ended December 31: 2011 2010 (in billions) Beginning balance $ 97.5 $ 81.3 Net flows 7.3 7.6 Market appreciation (depreciation) and other (1.4 ) 8.6 Ending balance $ 103.4 $ 97.5 Wrap account assets increased $5.9 billion, or 6%, to $103.4 billion compared to the prior year due to net inflows. Management believes that operating measures, which exclude net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges for our Advice & Wealth Management segment, best reflect the underlying performance of our core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. See our discussion on the use of these non GAAP measures in the Overview section above. The following table presents the results of operations of our Advice & Wealth Management segment: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,590 $ $ 1,590 $ 1,370 $ $ 1,370 $ 220 16 % Distribution fees 1,849 1,849 1,696 1,696 153 9 Net investment income 256 (5 ) 261 273 1 272 (11 ) (4 ) Other revenues 61 61 71 71 (10 ) (14 ) Total revenues 3,756 (5 ) 3,761 3,410 1 3,409 352 10 Banking and deposit interest expense 48 48 67 67 (19 ) (28 ) Total net revenues 3,708 (5 ) 3,713 3,343 1 3,342 371 11 Expenses Distribution expenses 2,203 2,203 1,954 1,954 249 13 General and administrative expense 1,104 1,104 1,073 7 1,066 38 4 Total expenses 3,307 3,307 3,027 7 3,020 287 10 Pretax income $ 401 $ (5 ) $ 406 $ 316 $ (6 ) $ 322 $ 84 26 % (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. Our Advice & Wealth Management segment pretax income increased $85 million, or 27%, to $401 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $316 million for the prior year. Our Advice & Wealth Management segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges, increased $84 million, or 26%, to $406 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $322 million for the prior year due to improved advisor productivity and new client flows. Pretax margin was 10.8% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 9.5% for the prior year. Pretax operating margin was 10.9% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 9.6% for the prior year. Net Revenues Net revenues increased $365 million, or 11%, to $3.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $3.3 billion for the prior year. Operating net revenues exclude net realized gains or losses. Operating net revenues increased $371 million, or 11%, to $3.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $3.3 billion for the prior year driven by higher management and distribution fees from growth in assets under management and increased client activity. Management and financial advice fees increased $220 million, or 16%, to $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.4 billion for the prior year driven by growth in assets under management. Wrap account assets increased $5.9 billion, or 6%, to $103.4 billion compared to the prior year due to net inflows. Distribution fees increased $153 million, or 9%, to $1.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.7 billion for the prior year primarily driven by growth in assets under management and increased client activity. 59 Table of Contents Net investment income decreased $17 million, or 6%, to $256 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $273 million for the prior year. Operating net investment income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, decreased $11 million, or 4%, to $261 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $272 million for the prior year due to a decrease in investment income on fixed maturity securities driven by lower invested assets resulting from net outflows in certificates driven by the low interest rate environment, partially offset by higher banking invested asset balances and $6 million of additional bond discount accretion investment income related to prior periods resulting from revisions to the accounting classification of certain structured securities in the third quarter of 2011. Banking and deposit interest expense decreased $19 million, or 28%, to $48 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $67 million for the prior year primarily due to lower certificate balances, as well as a decrease in crediting rates on certificate products. Expenses Total expenses increased $280 million, or 9%, to $3.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $3.0 billion for the prior year. Operating expenses, which exclude integration and restructuring charges, increased $287 million, or 10%, to $3.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $3.0 billion for the prior year primarily due to an increase in distribution expenses. Distribution expenses increased $249 million, or 13%, to $2.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.0 billion for the prior year primarily due to higher advisor compensation from business growth. General and administrative expense increased $31 million, or 3%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense, which excludes integration and restructuring charges, increased $38 million, or 4%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year primarily due to an increase in investment spending, including costs associated with our new brokerage platform. Asset Management Our Asset Management segment provides investment advice and investment products to retail and institutional clients. We provide our products and services on a global scale through two complementary asset management businesses: Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC ("Columbia" or "Columbia Management") and Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings S&agrave;rl ("Threadneedle"). Columbia Management predominantly provides U.S. domestic products and services and Threadneedle predominantly provides international investment products and services. We provide clients with Columbia retail products through unaffiliated third party financial institutions and through our Advice & Wealth Management segment. We provide institutional products and services through our institutional sales force. We provide Threadneedle retail products primarily through third parties. Retail products include mutual funds and variable product funds underlying insurance and annuity separate accounts. Institutional asset management services are designed to meet specific client objectives and may involve a range of products including those that focus on traditional asset classes, separately managed accounts, individually managed accounts, collateralized loan obligations, hedge funds, collective funds and property funds. Revenues in this segment are primarily earned as fees based on managed asset balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. In addition to the products and services provided to third party clients, management teams serving our Asset Management segment provide all intercompany asset management services. The fees for such services are reflected within the Asset Management segment results through intersegment transfer pricing. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice & Wealth Management, Annuities and Protection segments. On April 30, 2010, we completed the acquisition of the long term asset management business of the Columbia Management Group from Bank of America. The acquisition significantly enhanced the capabilities of the Asset Management segment by increasing its scale, broadening its retail and institutional distribution capabilities and strengthening and diversifying its lineup of retail and institutional products. The integration of the Columbia Management business, which is expected to be completed in 2012, has involved organizational changes to our portfolio management and analytical teams and to our operational, compliance, sales and marketing support staffs. This integration has also involved the streamlining of our U.S. domestic product offerings. As a result of the integration, we combined RiverSource Investments, our legacy U.S. asset management business, with Columbia Management, under the Columbia brand. Total U.S. retail assets and number of funds under the Columbia brand as of December 31, 2011 were $204.8 billion and 205 funds, respectively. Threadneedle remains our primary international investment management platform. Threadneedle manages seven OEICs and one Societe dInvestissement A Capital Variable ("SICAV") offering. The seven OEICs are Threadneedle Investment Funds ICVC ("TIF"), Threadneedle Specialist Investment Funds ICVC ("TSIF"), Threadneedle Focus Investment Funds ("TFIF"), Threadneedle Advantage Portfolio Funds ("TPAF"), Threadneedle Investment Funds ICVC II ("TIF II"), Threadneedle Investment Funds ICVC III ("TIF III") and Threadneedle Investment Funds ICVC IV ("TIF IV"). TIF, TSIF, TFIF, TPAF, TIF II, TIF 60 Table of Contents III and TIF IV are structured as umbrella companies with a total of 72 (33, 14, 2, 2, 6, 9, and 6, respectively) sub funds covering the worlds bond and equity markets. The SICAV is the Threadneedle (Lux) SICAV ("T(Lux)"). T(Lux) is structured as an umbrella company with a total of 30 sub funds covering the worlds bond, commodities and equity markets. In addition, Threadneedle manages 13 unit trusts, 10 of which invest into the OEICs, 7 property unit trusts and 1 property fund of funds. The following tables present the mutual fund performance of our retail Columbia and Threadneedle funds as of December 31, 2011: Columbia Mutual Fund Rankings in top 2 Lipper Quartiles Domestic Equity Equal weighted 1 year 37 % 3 year 48 % 5 year 61 % Asset weighted 1 year 38 % 3 year 39 % 5 year 58 % International Equity Equal weighted 1 year 61 % 3 year 65 % 5 year 50 % Asset weighted 1 year 71 % 3 year 77 % 5 year 65 % Taxable Fixed Income Equal weighted 1 year 85 % 3 year 55 % 5 year 68 % Asset weighted 1 year 93 % 3 year 64 % 5 year 73 % Tax Exempt Fixed Income Equal weighted 1 year 95 % 3 year 85 % 5 year 95 % Asset weighted 1 year 85 % 3 year 84 % 5 year 99 % Asset Allocation Funds Equal weighted 1 year 86 % 3 year 48 % 5 year 57 % Asset weighted 1 year 85 % 3 year 79 % 5 year 88 % Number of funds with 4 or 5 Morningstar star ratings Overall 52 3 year 46 5 year 49 Percent of funds with 4 or 5 Morningstar star ratings Overall 44 % 3 year 39 % 5 year 44 % Percent of assets with 4 or 5 Morningstar star ratings Overall 59 % 3 year 40 % 5 year 42 % Mutual fund performance rankings are based on the performance of Class Z fund shares for Columbia branded mutual funds. In instances where a funds Class Z shares do not have a full one, three or five year track record, performance for an older share class of the same fund, typically Class A shares, is utilized for the period before Class Z shares were launched. No adjustments to the historical track records are made to account for differences in fund expenses between share classes of a fund. Equal Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Counts the number of funds with above median ranking divided by the total number of funds. Asset size is not a factor. Asset Weighted Rankings in Top 2 Quartiles: Sums the total assets of the funds with above median ranking (using Class Z and appended Class Z) divided by total assets of all funds. Funds with more assets will receive a greater share of the total percentage above or below median. Aggregated data includes all Columbia branded mutual funds. 61  Table of Contents Threadneedle Retail Fund Rankings in Top 2 Morningstar Quartiles or Above Index Benchmark Equity Equal weighted 1 year 65 % 3 year 72 % 5 year 86 % Asset weighted 1 year 68 % 3 year 76 % 5 year 86 % Fixed Income Equal weighted 1 year 69 % 3 year 77 % 5 year 82 % Asset weighted 1 year 69 % 3 year 75 % 5 year 97 % Allocation (Managed) Funds Equal weighted 1 year 33 % 3 year 67 % 5 year 100 % Asset weighted 1 year 14 % 3 year 49 % 5 year 100 % The performance of each fund is measured on a consistent basis against the most appropriate benchmark a peer group of similar funds or an index. Equal weighted: Counts the number of funds with above median ranking (if measured against peer group) or above index performance (if measured against an index) divided by the total number of funds. Asset size is not a factor. Asset weighted: Sums the assets of the funds with above median ranking (if measured against peer group) or above index performance (if measured against an index) divided by the total sum of assets in the funds. Funds with more assets will receive a greater share of the total percentage above or below median or index. Aggregated Allocation (Managed) Funds include funds that invest in other funds of the Threadneedle range including those funds that invest in both equity and fixed income. Aggregated Threadneedle data includes funds on the Threadneedle platform sub advised by Columbia as well as advisors not affiliated with Ameriprise Financial, Inc. The following tables present the changes in Columbia and Threadneedle managed assets: January 1, 2011 Net Flows Market Appreciation/ (Depreciation) & Other(1) Foreign Exchange December 31, 2011 (in billions) Columbia Managed Assets: Retail Funds $ 218.5 $ (3.1 ) $ (10.6 ) $ $ 204.8 Institutional Funds 127.2 (9.8 ) (4.1 )(2) 113.3 Alternative Funds 10.0 (1.8 ) (0.1 ) 8.1 Less: Eliminations (0.2 ) 0.1 (0.1 ) Total Columbia Managed Assets 355.5 (14.7 ) (14.7 ) 326.1 Threadneedle Managed Assets: Retail Funds 33.4 0.8 (2.2 ) (0.2 ) 31.8 Institutional Funds 70.9 10.0 0.1 (0.4 ) 80.6 Alternative Funds 1.3 (0.2 ) 0.1 1.2 Total Threadneedle Managed Assets 105.6 10.6 (2.0 ) (0.6 ) 113.6 Less: Sub Advised Eliminations (4.3 ) (0.8 ) 0.9 (4.2 ) Total Managed Assets $ 456.8 $ (4.9 ) $ (15.8 ) $ (0.6 ) $ 435.5 62 Table of Contents January 1, 2010 Net Flows Market Appreciation/ (Depreciation) & Other(1) Foreign Exchange December 31, 2010 (in billions) Columbia Managed Assets:(3) Retail Funds $ 76.9 $ (5.2 ) $ 146.8 (4) $ $ 218.5 Institutional Funds 62.3 (7.1 ) 72.0 (5) 127.2 Alternative Funds 9.9 0.1 10.0 Less: Eliminations (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.2 ) Total Columbia Managed Assets 149.0 (12.3 ) 218.8 355.5 Threadneedle Managed Assets: Retail Funds 29.1 1.9 3.5 (1.1 ) 33.4 Institutional Funds 66.8 (2.2 ) 8.7 (2.4 ) 70.9 Alternative Funds 1.9 (0.2 ) (0.4 ) 1.3 Total Threadneedle Managed Assets 97.8 (0.5 ) 11.8 (3.5 ) 105.6 Less: Sub Advised Eliminations (3.6 ) (0.1 ) (0.6 ) (4.3 ) Total Managed Assets $ 243.2 $ (12.9 ) $ 230.0 $ (3.5 ) $ 456.8 (1)Distributions of Retail Funds are included in market appreciation/(depreciation) and other. (2)Included in Market appreciation/(depreciation) and other is ($4.7) billion due to the transfer of assets from Separately Managed Accounts (SMAs) to United Management Accounts (UMAs). (3)Prior to the Columbia Management Acquisition, the domestic managed assets of our Asset Management segment, which are now included in Columbia Managed Assets, were managed by RiverSource Investments. (4)Included in Market appreciation/(depreciation) and other is $118.1 billion due to the Columbia Management Acquisition, including $3 billion of assets that were transferred to RiverSource Sub advised through the implementation of the Portfolio Navigator program, and an additional $13.1 billion of Portfolio Navigator related assets sub advised by others. (5)Included in Market appreciation/(depreciation) and other is $68.4 billion due to the Columbia Management Acquisition. Total segment assets under management declined $21.3 billion, or 5%, from a year ago to $435.5 billion as of December 31, 2011, driven by a decrease in Columbia managed assets, partially offset by an increase in Threadneedle managed assets. Columbia managed assets declined $29.4 billion, or 8%, from a year ago to $326.1 billion as of December 31, 2011, primarily due to net outflows, as well as market depreciation and other, including a $4.7 billion decrease due to a former parent related program sponsor that shifted assets from a traditional separately managed account platform to a model delivery only unified managed account platform that utilizes Columbia models. While the assets are excluded from managed assets, the movement in assets was neutral to earnings. Columbia net outflows of $14.7 billion in 2011 included $9.0 billion of outflows of low basis point, former parent company assets. Threadneedle managed assets increased $8.0 billion, or 8%, from a year ago to $113.6 billion as of December 31, 2011 due to net inflows. Threadneedle net inflows of $10.6 billion in 2011 reflected approximately $14 billion from a strategic relationship with Liverpool Victoria to manage its insurance and pension fund portfolio. Management believes that operating measures, which exclude net realized gains or losses and integration charges for our Asset Management segment, best reflect the underlying performance of our core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. See our discussion on the use of these non GAAP measures in the Overview section above. 63 Table of Contents The following table presents the results of operations of our Asset Management segment: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 2,434 $ $ 2,434 $ 1,979 $ $ 1,979 $ 455 23 % Distribution fees 450 450 358 358 92 26 Net investment income 14 3 11 17 3 14 (3 ) (21 ) Other revenues 5 5 15 15 (10 ) (67 ) Total revenues 2,903 3 2,900 2,369 3 2,366 534 23 Banking and deposit interest expense 3 3 1 1 2 NM Total net revenues 2,900 3 2,897 2,368 3 2,365 532 22 Expenses Distribution expenses 1,026 1,026 734 734 292 40 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 19 19 20 20 (1 ) (5 ) General and administrative expense 1,419 95 1,324 1,296 95 1,201 123 10 Total expenses 2,464 95 2,369 2,050 95 1,955 414 21 Pretax income $ 436 $ (92 ) $ 528 $ 318 $ (92 ) $ 410 $ 118 29 % NM Not Meaningful. (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses and integration charges. Our Asset Management segment pretax income increased $118 million, or 37%, to $436 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $318 million for the prior year. Our Asset Management segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses and integration charges, increased $118 million, or 29%, to $528 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $410 million for the prior year. Earnings in 2011 reflected twelve months of Columbia Management earnings compared to eight months in the prior year, which impacted revenues and expenses. Pretax margin was 15.0% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 13.4% for the prior year. Pretax operating margin was 18.2% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 17.3% for the prior year. Net Revenues Net revenues increased $532 million, or 22%, to $2.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.4 billion for the prior year. Operating net revenues, which exclude net realized gains or losses, increased $532 million, or 22%, to $2.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.4 billion for the prior year driven by an increase in management and distribution fees. Management and financial advice fees increased $455 million, or 23%, to $2.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.0 billion for the prior year due to an additional four months of business resulting from the Columbia Management Acquisition, as well the impact of higher average equity market levels on assets, partially offset by net outflows and lower hedge fund performance fees. Distribution fees increased $92 million, or 26%, to $450 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $358 million for the prior year driven by an additional four months of business resulting from the Columbia Management Acquisition, as well the impact of higher average equity market levels on assets, partially offset by net outflows. Expenses Total expenses increased $414 million, or 20%, to $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.1 billion for the prior year. Operating expenses, which exclude integration charges, increased $414 million, or 21%, to $2.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.0 billion for the prior year due to an increase in distribution expenses and general and administrative expense. Distribution expenses increased $292 million, or 40%, to $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $734 million for the prior year due to an additional four months of business resulting from the Columbia Management Acquisition, as well the impact of higher average equity market levels on assets, partially offset by net outflows. General and administrative expense increased $123 million, or 9%, to $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.3 billion for the prior year. Integration charges remained flat at $95 million for both 2011 and 2010. 64 Table of Contents Operating general and administrative expense, which excludes integration charges, increased $123 million, or 10%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.2 billion for the prior year reflecting an additional four months of ongoing expenses of Columbia Management, as well as higher investment spending compared to the prior year, partially offset by lower hedge fund performance compensation. Annuities Our Annuities segment provides variable and fixed annuity products of RiverSource Life companies to retail clients. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2010, we provided our variable annuity products through our affiliated advisors as well as unaffiliated advisors through third party distribution. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we discontinued new sales of our variable annuities in non Ameriprise channels to further strengthen the risk and return characteristics of the business. We provide our fixed annuity products through affiliated advisors as well as unaffiliated advisors through third party distribution. Revenues for our variable annuity products are primarily earned as fees based on underlying account balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. Revenues for our fixed annuity products are primarily earned as net investment income on invested assets supporting fixed account balances, with profitability significantly impacted by the spread between net investment income earned and interest credited on the fixed account balances. We also earn net investment income on invested assets supporting reserves for immediate annuities and for certain guaranteed benefits offered with variable annuities and on capital supporting the business. Intersegment revenues for this segment reflect fees paid by the Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource Variable Series Trust, Columbia Funds Variable Insurance Trust, Columbia Funds Variable Insurance Trust I and Wanger Advisors Trust funds under the variable annuity contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by the Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by the Asset Management segment. Management believes that operating measures, which exclude net realized gains or losses and the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization, for our Annuities segment, best reflect the underlying performance of our core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. See our discussion on the use of these non GAAP measures in the Overview section above. The following table presents the results of operations of our Annuities segment: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 622 $ $ 622 $ 546 $ $ 546 $ 76 14 % Distribution fees 312 312 284 284 28 10 Net investment income 1,280 1 1,279 1,318 9 1,309 (30 ) (2 ) Premiums 161 161 150 150 11 7 Other revenues 256 256 202 202 54 27 Total revenues 2,631 1 2,630 2,500 9 2,491 139 6 Banking and deposit interest expense Total net revenues 2,631 1 2,630 2,500 9 2,491 139 6 Expenses Distribution expenses 315 315 268 268 47 18 Interest credited to fixed accounts 711 711 762 762 (51 ) (7 ) Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 472 67 405 691 9 682 (277 ) (41 ) Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 398 (8 ) 406 (76 ) 16 (92 ) 498 NM Interest and debt expense 1 1 2 2 (1 ) (50 ) General and administrative expense 213 213 205 205 8 4 Total expenses 2,110 59 2,051 1,852 25 1,827 224 12 Pretax income $ 521 $ (58 ) $ 579 $ 648 $ (16 ) $ 664 $ (85 ) (13 )% NM Not Meaningful. (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses and the market impact on variable annuity living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization. Our Annuities segment pretax income decreased $127 million, or 20%, to $521 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $648 million for the prior year. Our Annuities segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses and the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization, decreased $85 million, or 13%, to $579 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 65 Table of Contents $664 million for the prior year primarily due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions and models and the market impact on DAC and DSIC amortization. Net Revenues Net revenues increased $131 million, or 5%, to $2.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.5 billion for the prior year. Operating net revenues, which exclude net realized gains or losses, increased $139 million, or 6%, to $2.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.5 billion for the prior year reflecting higher fee revenue from increased variable annuity separate account balances and higher fees from variable annuity guarantees. Management and financial advice fees increased $76 million, or 14%, to $622 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $546 million for the prior year due to higher fees on variable annuities driven by higher separate account balances. Average variable annuities contract accumulation values increased $6.4 billion, or 12%, from the prior year due to higher average equity market levels, as well as net inflows. Variable annuity net inflows for the year ended December 31, 2011 included $1.6 billion of net inflows in the Ameriprise channel, partially offset by net outflows from the closed book of variable annuities sold through third party channels. Distribution fees increased $28 million, or 10%, to $312 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $284 million for the prior year primarily due to higher fees on variable annuities driven by higher average separate account balances. Net investment income decreased $38 million, or 3%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.3 billion for the prior year. Operating net investment income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, decreased $30 million, or 2%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.3 billion for the prior year due to a decrease in investment income on fixed maturity securities reflecting lower invested assets and lower interest rates, partially offset by $37 million of additional bond discount accretion investment income related to prior periods resulting from revisions to the accounting classification of certain structured securities in the third quarter of 2011. The decrease in invested assets was driven by lower general account assets due to the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program in the second quarter of 2010 and lower interest sensitive fixed annuity account balances. Premiums increased $11 million, or 7%, to $161 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $150 million for the prior year due to higher sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies. Other revenues increased $54 million, or 27%, to $256 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $202 million for the prior year due to higher fees from variable annuity guarantees driven by higher in force amounts. Expenses Total expenses increased $258 million, or 14%, to $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.9 billion for the prior year. Operating expenses, which exclude the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization, increased $224 million, or 12%, to $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.8 billion for the prior year primarily due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions and models and the market impact on DAC and DSIC amortization. Distribution expenses increased $47 million, or 18%, to $315 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $268 million for the prior year primarily due to higher variable annuity compensation due to increased sales. Interest credited to fixed accounts decreased $51 million, or 7%, to $711 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $762 million for the prior year driven by lower average variable annuities fixed sub account balances and a lower average crediting rate on interest sensitive fixed annuities, as well as lower average fixed annuity account balances. Average variable annuities fixed sub account balances decreased $580 million, or 11%, to $4.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year primarily due to the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program in the second quarter of 2010. The average fixed annuity crediting rate excluding capitalized interest decreased to 3.7% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 3.8% for the prior year. Average fixed annuities contract accumulation values decreased $265 million, or 2%, to $14.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year due to outflows. Fixed annuities remained in net outflows due to low client demand given current interest rates. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses decreased $219 million, or 32%, to $472 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $691 million for the prior year. Operating benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses, which exclude the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges and DSIC amortization, decreased $277 million, or 41%, to $405 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $682 million for the prior year. Operating benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2011 included a benefit of $40 million from updating valuation assumptions and models compared to an expense of $256 million in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses related to our immediate annuities with life contingencies increased from 66 Table of Contents the prior year due to an unfavorable change in reserves primarily driven by higher premiums. The market impact to DSIC was an expense of $2 million in 2011 compared to a benefit of $3 million in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses for the prior year included a $21 million expense, net of DSIC, as a result of the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program. Amortization of DAC increased $474 million to $398 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to a benefit of $76 million for the prior year. Operating amortization of DAC, which excludes the DAC offset to the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, increased $498 million to $406 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to a benefit of $92 million for the prior year primarily due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions and models, as well as the market impact on amortization of DAC. Operating amortization of DAC in 2011 included an expense of $65 million from updating valuation assumptions and models compared to a benefit of $353 million in the prior year. The market impact on amortization of DAC was an expense of $13 million in 2011 compared to a benefit of $21 million in the prior year. Amortization of DAC in 2010 included a benefit of $13 million as a result of the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program. Protection Our Protection segment offers a variety of protection products to address the protection and risk management needs of our retail clients including life, disability income and property casualty insurance. Life and disability income products are primarily provided through affiliated advisors. Our property casualty products are provided direct, primarily through affinity relationships. We issue insurance policies through our life insurance subsidiaries and the property casualty companies. The primary sources of revenues for this segment are premiums, fees, and charges we receive to assume insurance related risk. We earn net investment income on invested assets supporting insurance reserves and capital supporting the business. We also receive fees based on the level of assets supporting VUL separate account balances. This segment earns intersegment revenues from fees paid by the Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of RiverSource Variable Series Trust, Columbia Funds Variable Insurance Trust, Columbia Funds Variable Insurance Trust I and Wanger Advisors Trust funds under the VUL contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by the Advice & Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by the Asset Management segment. Management believes that operating measures, which exclude net realized gains or losses for our Protection segment, best reflect the underlying performance of our core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. See our discussion on the use of these non GAAP measures in the Overview section above. The following table presents the results of operations of our Protection segment: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 56 $ $ 56 $ 54 $ $ 54 $ 2 4 % Distribution fees 95 95 96 96 (1 ) (1 ) Net investment income 429 3 426 429 1 428 (2 ) Premiums 1,076 1,076 1,047 1,047 29 3 Other revenues 417 417 422 422 (5 ) (1 ) Total revenues 2,073 3 2,070 2,048 1 2,047 23 1 Banking and deposit interest expense 1 1 1 1 Total net revenues 2,072 3 2,069 2,047 1 2,046 23 1 Expenses Distribution expenses 32 32 32 32 Interest credited to fixed accounts 142 142 147 147 (5 ) (3 ) Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 1,085 1,085 1,059 1,059 26 2 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 201 201 183 183 18 10 General and administrative expense 242 242 223 223 19 9 Total expenses 1,702 1,702 1,644 1,644 58 4 Pretax income $ 370 $ 3 $ 367 $ 403 $ 1 $ 402 $ (35 ) (9 )% (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses. 67 Table of Contents Our Protection segment pretax income decreased $33 million, or 8%, to $370 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $403 million for the prior year. Our Protection segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, decreased $35 million, or 9%, to $367 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $402 million for the prior year primarily due to higher claims and general and administrative expenses partially offset by higher premiums. Net Revenues Net revenues increased $25 million, or 1%, to $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.0 billion for the prior year. Operating net revenues, which exclude net realized gains or losses, increased $23 million, or 1%, to $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $2.0 billion for the prior year due to Auto and Home premium growth. Premiums increased $29 million, or 3%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.0 billion for the prior year due to growth in Auto and Home premiums driven by higher volumes. Auto and Home policy counts increased 7% period over period. Expenses Total expenses increased $58 million, or 4%, to $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.6 billion for the prior year due to increases in benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses, amortization of DAC and general and administrative expense. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $26 million, or 2%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2011 included a benefit of $4 million from updating valuation assumptions and models compared to an expense of $44 million in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses related to our Auto and Home business increased from the prior year primarily due to $45 million of catastrophe losses in 2011 compared to $29 million in 2010, as well as higher auto liability reserves. In addition, benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased as a result of higher UL claims and an increase in ongoing reserve levels for UL products with secondary guarantees compared to the prior year. Amortization of DAC increased $18 million, or 10%, to $201 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $183 million for the prior year. Amortization of DAC in 2011 included a benefit of $2 million from updating valuation assumptions and models compared to a benefit of $22 million in the prior year. Amortization of DAC in 2010 included a benefit of $6 million as a result of the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program. The market impact on amortization of DAC was an expense of $2 million in 2011 compared to a benefit of $10 million in the prior year, which was partially offset by a decrease in DAC amortization as a result of better persistency and lower current period profits due to higher direct claims. Corporate & Other Our Corporate & Other segment consists of net investment income or loss on corporate level assets, including excess capital held in our subsidiaries and other unallocated equity and other revenues as well as unallocated corporate expenses. The Corporate & Other segment also includes revenues and expenses of CIEs. Management believes that operating measures, which exclude net realized gains or losses, integration and restructuring charges and the impact of consolidating CIEs for our Corporate & Other segment, best reflect the underlying performance of our core operations and facilitate a more meaningful trend analysis. See our discussion on the use of these non GAAP measures in the Overview section above. 68 Table of Contents The following table presents the results of operations of our Corporate & Other segment: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ (1 ) $ $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ (1 ) NM Distribution fees Net investment income (loss) 68 95 (27 ) 273 294 (21 ) (6 ) (29 )% Other revenues 124 94 30 153 125 28 2 7 Total revenues 191 189 2 426 419 7 (5 ) (71 ) Banking and deposit interest expense (1 ) (1 ) 3 3 (4 ) NM Total net revenues 192 189 3 423 419 4 (1 ) (25 ) Expenses Distribution expenses 1 1 1 1 Interest and debt expense 316 221 95 288 181 107 (12 ) (11 ) General and administrative expense 218 70 148 185 65 120 28 23 Total expenses 535 291 244 474 246 228 16 7 Pretax loss (343 ) (102 ) (241 ) (51 ) 173 (224 ) (17 ) (8 ) Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (106 ) (106 ) 163 163 Pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ (237 ) $ 4 $ (241 ) $ (214 ) $ 10 $ (224 ) $ (17 ) (8 )% NM Not Meaningful. (1)Includes revenues and expenses of the CIEs; net realized gains or losses; and integration and restructuring charges. The following table presents the components of the adjustments in the table above: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments (in millions) Revenues Net investment income (loss) $ 91 $ 4 $ 95 $ 275 $ 19 $ 294 Other revenues 94 94 125 125 Total revenues 185 4 189 400 19 419 Banking and deposit interest expense Total net revenues 185 4 189 400 19 419 Expenses Distribution expenses Interest and debt expense 221 221 181 181 General and administrative expense 70 70 56 9 65 Total expenses 291 291 237 9 246 Pretax loss (106 ) 4 (102 ) 163 10 173 Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (106 ) (106 ) 163 163 Pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ $ 4 $ 4 $ $ 10 $ 10 (1)Other adjustments include net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial was $237 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $214 million for the prior year. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax operating loss excludes net realized gains or losses, integration and restructuring charges and the impact of consolidating CIEs. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax operating loss was $241 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $224 million for the prior year. Net revenues decreased $231 million, or 55%, to $192 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $423 million for the prior year reflecting the impact of consolidating CIEs. Operating net revenues, which exclude revenues or losses of CIEs and net realized gains or losses, decreased $1 million, or 25%, to $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $4 million for the prior year. 69  Table of Contents Net investment income was $68 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $273 million for the prior year. Net investment income for the year ended December 31, 2011 included a $91 million gain for changes in the assets and liabilities of CIEs, primarily debt and underlying syndicated loans, compared to a $275 million gain for the prior year. Operating net investment loss, which excludes net investment income or loss of the CIEs and net realized gains or losses, was $27 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $21 million for the prior year. Other revenues decreased $29 million, or 19%, to $124 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $153 million for the prior year. Operating other revenues, which exclude revenues or losses of the CIEs, increased $2 million, or 7%, to $30 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $28 million for the prior year. During the second quarter of 2011, we reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into earnings a $27 million gain on an interest rate hedge put in place in anticipation of issuing debt between December 2010 and June 2011. Operating other revenues for 2010 included a $25 million benefit from payments related to the Reserve Funds matter. Total expenses increased $61 million, or 13%, to $535 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $474 million for the prior year. Operating expenses, which exclude expenses of CIEs and integration and restructuring charges, increased $16 million, or 7%, to $244 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $228 million for the prior year. Interest and debt expense increased $28 million, or 10%, to $316 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $288 million for the prior year. Operating interest and debt expense, which excludes interest expense on CIE debt, decreased $12 million, or 11%, to $95 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $107 million for the prior year primarily due to lower average debt balances. General and administrative expense increased $33 million, or 18%, to $218 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $185 million for the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense, which excludes expenses of the CIEs and integration and restructuring charges, increased $28 million, or 23%, to $148 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $120 million for the prior year. 70 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 The following table presents our consolidated results of operations: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 3,784 $ (38 ) $ 3,822 $ 2,558 $ (2 ) $ 2,560 $ 1,262 49 % Distribution fees 1,447 1,447 1,182 1,182 265 22 Net investment income 2,309 308 2,001 1,998 55 1,943 58 3 Premiums 1,179 1,179 1,098 1,098 81 7 Other revenues 863 125 738 702 28 674 64 9 Total revenues 9,582 395 9,187 7,538 81 7,457 1,730 23 Banking and deposit interest expense 70 70 141 6 135 (65 ) (48 ) Total net revenues 9,512 395 9,117 7,397 75 7,322 1,795 25 Expenses Distribution expenses 2,065 2,065 1,462 1,462 603 41 Interest credited to fixed accounts 909 909 903 903 6 1 Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 1,750 9 1,741 1,334 154 1,180 561 48 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 127 16 111 217 (93 ) 310 (199 ) (64 ) Interest and debt expense 290 181 109 127 127 (18 ) (14 ) General and administrative expense 2,737 129 2,608 2,434 105 2,329 279 12 Total expenses 7,878 335 7,543 6,477 166 6,311 1,232 20 Income from continuing operations before income tax provision 1,634 60 1,574 920 (91 ) 1,011 563 56 Income tax provision 350 (36 ) 386 184 (37 ) 221 165 75 Income from continuing operations 1,284 96 1,188 736 (54 ) 790 398 50 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (24 ) (24 ) 1 1 Net income 1,260 72 1,188 737 (53 ) 790 398 50 Less: Net income attributable to non controlling interests 163 163 15 15 Net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ 1,097 $ (91 ) $ 1,188 $ 722 $ (68 ) $ 790 $ 398 50 % (1)Includes the elimination of management fees we earn for services provided to the CIEs and the related expense; revenues and expenses of the CIEs; net realized gains or losses; the market impact on variable annuity living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization; integration and restructuring charges; and income (loss) from discontinued operations. Income tax provision is calculated using the statutory tax rate of 35% on applicable adjustments. 71 Table of Contents The following table presents the components of the adjustments in the table above: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ (38 ) $ $ (38 ) $ (2 ) $ $ (2 ) Distribution fees Net investment income 275 33 308 2 53 55 Premiums Other revenues 125 125 28 28 Total revenues 362 33 395 28 53 81 Banking and deposit interest expense 6 6 Total net revenues 362 33 395 22 53 75 Expenses Distribution expenses Interest credited to fixed accounts Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 9 9 154 154 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 16 16 (93 ) (93 ) Interest and debt expense 181 181 General and administrative expense 18 111 129 7 98 105 Total expenses 199 136 335 7 159 166 Income from continuing operations before income tax provision 163 (103 ) 60 15 (106 ) (91 ) Income tax provision (36 ) (36 ) (37 ) (37 ) Income from continuing operations 163 (67 ) 96 15 (69 ) (54 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (24 ) (24 ) 1 1 Net income 163 (91 ) 72 15 (68 ) (53 ) Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 163 163 15 15 Net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ $ (91 ) $ (91 ) $ $ (68 ) $ (68 ) (1)Other adjustments include net realized gains or losses; the market impact on variable annuity living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization; integration and restructuring charges; and income (loss) from discontinued operations. Overall Net income attributable to Ameriprise Financial increased $375 million, or 52%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $722 million for the prior year. Operating earnings exclude net realized gains or losses; the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization; integration and restructuring charges; income (loss) of discontinued operations; and the impact of consolidating CIEs. Operating earnings increased $398 million, or 50%, to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $790 million for the prior year driven by improved client activity, market appreciation and net inflows in wrap account assets and variable annuities, as well as improved scale from the Columbia Management Acquisition. The total pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses for 2010 attributable to the review of valuation assumptions and models on an operating basis were as follows: Segment Pretax Benefit (Charge) Other Revenues Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Amortization of DAC Total (in millions) Valuation assumptions and model changes: Annuities $ $ (256 ) $ 353 $ 97 Protection (20 ) (44 ) 22 (42 ) Total $ (20 ) $ (300 ) $ 375 $ 55 72 Table of Contents The total pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses for 2009 attributable to the review of valuation assumptions on an operating basis were as follows: Segment Pretax Benefit (Charge) Other Revenues Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Amortization of DAC Total (in millions) Valuation assumptions: Annuities $ $ 57 $ 61 $ 118 Protection (65 ) 33 55 23 Total $ (65 ) $ 90 $ 116 $ 141 Net Revenues Net revenues increased $2.1 billion, or 29%, to $9.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $7.4 billion for the prior year. Operating net revenues exclude net realized gains or losses and revenues or losses of the CIEs and include the fees we earn from services provided to the CIEs. Operating net revenues increased $1.8 billion, or 25%, to $9.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $7.3 billion for the prior year primarily due to growth in asset based management fees and distribution fees driven by higher asset levels reflecting the Columbia Management Acquisition, market appreciation and net inflows in wrap account assets and variable annuities, as well as increased client activity. Management and financial advice fees increased $1.2 billion, or 48%, to $3.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.6 billion for the prior year. Operating management and financial advice fees include the fees we earn from services provided to the CIEs. Operating management and financial advice fees increased $1.3 billion, or 49%, to $3.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.6 billion for the prior year primarily due to higher asset levels reflecting the Columbia Management Acquisition, market appreciation and net inflows in wrap account assets and variable annuities. The daily average S&P 500 Index increased 20% compared to the prior year. Wrap account assets increased $16.2 billion, or 20%, to $97.5 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year due to net inflows and market appreciation. Average variable annuities contract accumulation values increased $10.3 billion, or 25%, from the prior year due to higher equity market levels and net inflows. Total Asset Management AUM increased $213.7 billion, or 88%, to $456.8 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year primarily due to the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation, partially offset by net outflows. Distribution fees increased $265 million, or 22%, to $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.2 billion for the prior year primarily due to higher asset based fees driven by growth in assets from the Columbia Management Acquisition, market appreciation and net inflows in wrap account assets and variable annuities, as well as increased client activity. Net investment income increased $311 million, or 16%, to $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.0 billion for the prior year. Net investment income for 2010 included a $275 million gain for changes in the assets and liabilities of CIEs, primarily debt and underlying syndicated loans, compared to $2 million in the prior year. Operating net investment income excludes net realized gains or losses and changes in the assets and liabilities of CIEs. Operating net investment income increased $58 million, or 3%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.9 billion for the prior year primarily due to a $42 million increase in investment income on fixed maturity securities driven by higher fixed annuity account balances and higher investment yields, as well as higher investment yields and increased account balances related to assets supporting our Protection business, partially offset by lower investment income related to certificates. Premiums increased $81 million, or 7%, to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year primarily due to growth in Auto and Home premiums driven by higher volumes, as well as higher sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies. Auto and Home policy counts increased 9% period over period. Other revenues increased $161 million, or 23%, to $863 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $702 million for the prior year. Operating other revenues exclude revenues of the CIEs. Operating other revenues increased $64 million, or 9%, to $738 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $674 million for the prior year primarily due to lower charges related to updating valuation assumptions and models, higher fees from variable annuity guarantees, and a $25 million benefit from payments related to the Reserve Funds matter in 2010, partially offset by a $58 million benefit in 2009 from repurchasing our junior notes at a discount. Other revenues in 2010 included a charge of $20 million from updating valuation assumptions and models compared to a charge of $65 million in the prior year. 73 Table of Contents Banking and deposit interest expense decreased $71 million, or 50%, to $70 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $141 million for the prior year primarily due to lower certificate balances as a result of the run off of certificate rate promotions and a decrease in crediting rates on certificate products. Expenses Total expenses increased $1.4 billion, or 22%, to $7.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $6.5 billion for the prior year. Operating expenses exclude the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization; integration and restructuring charges; and expenses of the CIEs. Operating expenses increased $1.2 billion, or 20%, to $7.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $6.3 billion for the prior year primarily due to increases in distribution expenses, benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses and general and administrative expense, partially offset by a decrease in amortization of DAC. Distribution expenses increased $603 million, or 41%, to $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.5 billion for the prior year as a result of market appreciation and the Columbia Management Acquisition, as well as higher advisor compensation from business growth. Interest credited to fixed accounts increased $6 million, or 1%, to $909 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $903 million for the prior year driven by higher average fixed annuity account balances, partially offset by a lower average crediting rate on interest sensitive fixed annuities. Average fixed annuities contract accumulation values increased $600 million, or 4%, to $14.5 billion for 2010 compared to the prior year. The average fixed annuity crediting rate excluding capitalized interest decreased to 3.8% in 2010 compared to 3.9% in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $416 million, or 31%, to $1.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.3 billion for the prior year. Operating benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses, which exclude the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges and DSIC amortization, increased $561 million, or 48%, to $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.2 billion for the prior year driven by the impact of updating valuation assumptions and models. Operating benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2010 included an expense of $300 million from updating valuation assumptions and models compared to a benefit of $90 million in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses related to our Auto and Home business increased compared to the prior year primarily due to higher business volumes and higher claims driven by $11 million in catastrophe losses from a hail storm in the Phoenix area and a $16 million reserve increase for higher auto liability claims. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses related to our immediate annuities with life contingencies increased compared to the prior year primarily due to higher premiums. In addition, benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased as a result of the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program in the second quarter of 2010, higher disability income and long term care insurance claims and higher reserves for UL products with secondary guarantees compared to the prior year. Amortization of DAC decreased $90 million, or 41%, to $127 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $217 million for the prior year. Operating amortization of DAC, which excludes the DAC offset to the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, decreased $199 million, or 64%, to $111 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $310 million for the prior year primarily due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions and models, as well as the market impact on amortization of DAC. Operating amortization of DAC in 2010 included a benefit of $375 million from updating valuation assumptions and models compared to a benefit of $116 million in the prior year. The market impact on amortization of DAC was a benefit of $31 million in 2010 compared to a benefit of $26 million in the prior year. An increase in DAC amortization related to higher variable annuity gross profits was partially offset by a decrease as a result of the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program in the second quarter of 2010. Interest and debt expense increased $163 million to $290 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $127 million for the prior year. Interest and debt expense in 2010 included $181 million of interest expense on CIE debt compared to nil in the prior year. Operating interest and debt expense excludes interest expense on CIE debt. Operating interest and debt expense decreased $18 million, or 14%, to $109 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $127 million for the prior year primarily due to an expense of $13 million in 2009 related to the early retirement of $450 million of our senior notes due 2010. General and administrative expense increased $303 million, or 12%, to $2.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.4 billion for the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense excludes integration and restructuring charges and expenses of the CIEs. Integration and restructuring charges increased $13 million to $111 million in 2010 compared to $98 million in the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense increased $279 million, or 12%, to $2.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.3 billion for the prior year primarily reflecting ongoing expenses from the Columbia Management Acquisition, as well as higher performance based compensation partially offset by lower hedge fund performance compensation. 74 Table of Contents Income Taxes Our effective tax rate on income from continuing operations including income attributable to noncontrolling interests was 21.5% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to 20.0% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in our effective tax rate primarily reflects an increase in pretax income relative to tax advantaged items, which was partially offset by $53 million in benefits from tax planning and the completion of certain audits. Our effective tax rate on income from continuing operations excluding net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was 23.8% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to 20.3% for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our operating effective tax rate was 24.5% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to 21.9% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The following table presents a reconciliation of our operating effective tax rate: Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 GAAP Operating GAAP Operating (in millions) Income from continuing operations before income tax provision $ 1,634 $ 1,574 $ 920 $ 1,011 Less: Pretax income attributable to noncontrolling interests 163 15 Income from continuing operations before income tax provision excluding CIEs $ 1,471 $ 1,574 $ 905 $ 1,011 Income tax provision from continuing operations $ 350 $ 386 $ 184 $ 221 Effective tax rate 21.5 % 24.5 % 20.0 % 21.9 % Effective tax rate excluding noncontrolling interests 23.8 % 24.5 % 20.3 % 21.9 % Results of Operations by Segment Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 The following table presents summary financial information by segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating (in millions) Advice & Wealth Management Net revenues $ 3,343 $ 1 $ 3,342 $ 2,804 $ (15 ) $ 2,819 Expenses 3,027 7 3,020 2,837 64 2,773 Pretax income (loss) $ 316 $ (6 ) $ 322 $ (33 ) $ (79 ) $ 46 Asset Management Net revenues $ 2,368 $ 3 $ 2,365 $ 1,346 $ (3 ) $ 1,349 Expenses 2,050 95 1,955 1,286 30 1,256 Pretax income $ 318 $ (92 ) $ 410 $ 60 $ (33 ) $ 93 Annuities Net revenues $ 2,500 $ 9 $ 2,491 $ 2,265 $ 44 $ 2,221 Expenses 1,852 25 1,827 1,617 61 1,556 Pretax income $ 648 $ (16 ) $ 664 $ 648 $ (17 ) $ 665 Protection Net revenues $ 2,047 $ 1 $ 2,046 $ 1,964 $ 27 $ 1,937 Expenses 1,644 1,644 1,467 1,467 Pretax income $ 403 $ 1 $ 402 $ 497 $ 27 $ 470 Corporate & Other Net revenues $ 423 $ 419 $ 4 $ 26 $ 24 $ 2 Expenses 474 246 228 278 13 265 Pretax loss (51 ) 173 (224 ) (252 ) 11 (263 ) Less: Pretax income attributable to noncontrolling interests 163 163 15 15 Pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ (214 ) $ 10 $ (224 ) $ (267 ) $ (4 ) $ (263 ) Eliminations Net revenues $ (1,169 ) $ (38 ) $ (1,131 ) $ (1,008 ) $ (2 ) $ (1,006 ) Expenses (1,169 ) (38 ) (1,131 ) (1,008 ) (2 ) (1,006 ) Pretax income $ $ $ $ $ $ (1)Includes the elimination of management fees we earn for services provided to the CIEs and the related expense; revenues and expenses of the CIEs; net realized gains or losses; the market impact on variable annuity living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization; and integration and restructuring charges. 75 Table of Contents Advice & Wealth Management The following table presents the changes in wrap account assets for the years ended December 31: 2010 2009 (in billions) Beginning balance $ 81.3 $ 62.2 Net flows 7.6 7.9 Market appreciation and other 8.6 11.2 Ending balance $ 97.5 $ 81.3 Wrap account assets increased $16.2 billion, or 20%, to $97.5 billion compared to the prior year due to market appreciation and net inflows. The following table presents the results of operations of our Advice & Wealth Management segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,370 $ $ 1,370 $ 1,088 $ $ 1,088 $ 282 26 % Distribution fees 1,696 1,696 1,491 1,491 205 14 Net investment income 273 1 272 293 (15 ) 308 (36 ) (12 ) Other revenues 71 71 65 65 6 9 Total revenues 3,410 1 3,409 2,937 (15 ) 2,952 457 15 Banking and deposit interest expense 67 67 133 133 (66 ) (50 ) Total net revenues 3,343 1 3,342 2,804 (15 ) 2,819 523 19 Expenses Distribution expenses 1,954 1,954 1,644 1,644 310 19 General and administrative expense 1,073 7 1,066 1,193 64 1,129 (63 ) (6 ) Total expenses 3,027 7 3,020 2,837 64 2,773 247 9 % Pretax income (loss) $ 316 $ (6 ) $ 322 $ (33 ) $ (79 ) $ 46 $ 276 NM NM Not Meaningful. (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. Our Advice & Wealth Management segment pretax income was $316 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $33 million in the prior year. Our Advice & Wealth Management segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses and integration charges, was $322 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $46 million in the prior year driven by higher asset based fees partially offset by higher distribution expenses. Pretax margin for 2010 was 9.5% and operating pretax margin was 9.6%. Net Revenues Net revenues were $3.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.8 billion in the prior year, an increase of $539 million, or 19%. Operating net revenues exclude net realized gains or losses. Operating net revenues were $3.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.8 billion in the prior year, an increase of $523 million, or 19%, driven by growth in average fee based assets, as well as increased client activity. Management and financial advice fees increased $282 million, or 26%, to $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year driven by growth in average fee based assets resulting from market appreciation and net inflows in wrap account assets. The daily average S&P 500 Index increased 20% compared to the prior year. Wrap account assets increased $16.2 billion, or 20%, to $97.5 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year due to market appreciation and net inflows. 76  Table of Contents Distribution fees increased $205 million, or 14%, to $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.5 billion for the prior year primarily driven by growth in average fee based assets resulting from market appreciation and net inflows in wrap account assets, as well as increased client activity. Net investment income decreased $20 million, or 7%, to $273 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $293 million for the prior year. Operating net investment income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, decreased $36 million, or 12%, to $272 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $308 million for the prior year driven by lower invested assets resulting from net outflows in certificates, as well as lower average yields on invested assets related to certificates. Banking and deposit interest expense decreased $66 million, or 50%, to $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $133 million for the prior year primarily due to lower certificate balances as a result of the run off of certificate rate promotions, as well as a decrease in crediting rates on certificate products. Expenses Total expenses increased $190 million, or 7%, to $3.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.8 billion for the prior year. Operating expenses, which exclude integration charges, increased $247 million, or 9%, to $3.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.8 billion for the prior year due to an increase in distribution expenses partially offset by a decrease in general and administrative expense. Distribution expenses increased $310 million, or 19%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.6 billion for the prior year primarily due to growth in average fee based assets, as well as higher advisor compensation from business growth. General and administrative expense decreased $120 million, or 10%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.2 billion for the prior year. Integration charges decreased $57 million to $7 million in 2010 compared to $64 million in the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense, which excludes integration charges, decreased $63 million, or 6%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 reflecting cost controls. Asset Management The following tables present the changes in Columbia and Threadneedle managed assets: January 1, 2010 Net Flows Market Appreciation/ (Depreciation) & Other(1) Foreign Exchange December 31, 2010 (in billions) Columbia Managed Assets:(2) Retail Funds $ 76.9 $ (5.2 ) $ 146.8 (3) $ $ 218.5 Institutional Funds 62.3 (7.1 ) 72.0 (4) 127.2 Alternative Funds 9.9 0.1 10.0 Less: Eliminations (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.2 ) Total Columbia Managed Assets 149.0 (12.3 ) 218.8 355.5 Threadneedle Managed Assets: Retail Funds 29.1 1.9 3.5 (1.1 ) 33.4 Institutional Funds 66.8 (2.2 ) 8.7 (2.4 ) 70.9 Alternative Funds 1.9 (0.2 ) (0.4 ) 1.3 Total Threadneedle Managed Assets 97.8 (0.5 ) 11.8 (3.5 ) 105.6 Less: Sub Advised Eliminations (3.6 ) (0.1 ) (0.6 ) (4.3 ) Total Managed Assets $ 243.2 $ (12.9 ) $ 230.0 $ (3.5 ) $ 456.8 (1)Distributions of Retail Funds are included in market appreciation/(depreciation) and other. (2)Prior to the Columbia Management Acquisition, the domestic managed assets of our Asset Management segment, which are now included in Columbia Managed Assets, were managed by RiverSource Investments. (3)Included in Market appreciation/(depreciation) and other is $118.1 billion due to the Columbia Management Acquisition, including $3 billion of assets that were transferred to RiverSource Sub advised through the implementation of the Portfolio Navigator program, and an additional $13.1 billion of Portfolio Navigator related assets sub advised by others. (4)Included in Market appreciation/(depreciation) and other is $68.4 billion due to the Columbia Management Acquisition. 77 Table of Contents January 1, 2009 Net Flows Market Appreciation/ (Depreciation) & Other(1) Foreign Exchange December 31, 2009 (in billions) Columbia Managed Assets:(2) Retail Funds $ 63.9 $ (0.5 ) $ 13.5 $ $ 76.9 Institutional Funds 54.7 2.6 5.0 62.3 Alternative Funds 9.4 (0.1 ) 0.6 9.9 Less: Eliminations (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Total Columbia Managed Assets 127.9 2.0 19.1 149.0 Threadneedle Managed Assets: Retail Funds 16.3 4.9 6.1 (3) 1.8 29.1 Institutional Funds 55.3 (1.4 ) 7.5 5.4 66.8 Alternative Funds 2.6 0.1 (1.0 ) 0.2 1.9 Total Threadneedle Managed Assets 74.2 3.6 12.6 7.4 97.8 Less: Sub Advised Eliminations (2.5 ) 0.3 (1.4 ) (3.6 ) Total Managed Assets $ 199.6 $ 5.9 $ 30.3 $ 7.4 $ 243.2 (1)Distributions of Retail Funds are included in market appreciation/(depreciation) and other. (2)Prior to the Columbia Management Acquisition, the domestic managed assets of our Asset Management segment, which are now included in Columbia Managed Assets, were managed by RiverSource Investments. (3)Included in Market appreciation/(depreciation) and other are assets due to the addition of Standard Chartered Banks World Express Funds investment business. Columbia assets under management were $355.5 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to $149.0 billion a year ago, driven by the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation, partially offset by net outflows. Equity and fixed income investment performance remained strong across one , three and five year periods. Retail net outflows of $5.2 billion in 2010 were primarily in equity and subadvisory portfolios, reflecting industry wide outflows in equities and lower retail sales as a result of pending fund mergers. Institutional net outflows of $7.1 billion in 2010 were primarily in lower basis point fixed income portfolios. Threadneedle assets under management were $105.6 billion at December 31, 2010, up 8% from a year ago reflecting year over year market appreciation and retail net inflows, partially offset by negative foreign currency translation and institutional net outflows. Total net outflows of $0.5 billion in 2010 reflected net outflows in lower basis point institutional portfolios, partially offset by retail net inflows from higher sales from European investors. Institutional net outflows in 2010 primarily reflected continued outflows in Zurich related portfolios. Investment track records remained strong across one , three and five year periods. The following table presents the results of operations of our Asset Management segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,979 $ $ 1,979 $ 1,106 $ $ 1,106 $ 873 79 % Distribution fees 358 358 216 216 142 66 Net investment income 17 3 14 18 (3 ) 21 (7 ) (33 ) Other revenues 15 15 8 8 7 88 Total revenues 2,369 3 2,366 1,348 (3 ) 1,351 1,015 75 Banking and deposit interest expense 1 1 2 2 (1 ) (50 ) Total net revenues 2,368 3 2,365 1,346 (3 ) 1,349 1,016 75 Expenses Distribution expenses 734 734 371 371 363 98 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 20 20 21 21 (1 ) (5 ) General and administrative expense 1,296 95 1,201 894 30 864 337 39 Total expenses 2,050 95 1,955 1,286 30 1,256 699 56 % Pretax income $ 318 $ (92 ) $ 410 $ 60 $ (33 ) $ 93 $ 317 NM NM Not Meaningful. (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses and integration charges. 78 Table of Contents Our Asset Management segment pretax income was $318 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $60 million for the prior year. Our Asset Management segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses and integration charges, was $410 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $93 million for the prior year reflecting eight months of earnings from business acquired in the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation. Pretax margin for 2010 was 13.4% and operating pretax margin was 17.3%. Net Revenues Net revenues increased $1.0 billion, or 76%, to $2.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.3 billion for the prior year driven by an increase in asset based management fees and distribution fees due to growth in assets from the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation. Management and financial advice fees increased $873 million, or 79%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.1 billion for the prior year primarily due to growth in assets from the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation, partially offset by lower hedge fund performance fees. The daily average S&P 500 Index increased 20% compared to the prior year. Total Asset Management managed assets increased $213.7 billion, or 88%, to $456.8 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year primarily due to the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation, partially offset by net outflows. Distribution fees increased $142 million, or 66%, to $358 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $216 million for the prior year primarily driven by growth in assets from the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation. Expenses Total expenses increased $764 million, or 59%, to $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.3 billion for the prior year. Operating expenses, which exclude integration charges, increased $699 million, or 56%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.3 billion for the prior year due to an increase in distribution expenses and general and administrative expense. We realized integration gross expense synergies related to the Columbia Management Acquisition of approximately $75 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Distribution expenses increased $363 million, or 98%, to $734 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $371 million for the prior year primarily due to growth in assets from the Columbia Management Acquisition and market appreciation. General and administrative expense increased $402 million, or 45%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $894 million for the prior year. Integration charges increased $65 million to $95 million in 2010 compared to $30 million in the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense, which excludes integration charges, increased $337 million, or 39%, to $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $864 million for the prior year primarily due to increased operating costs of Columbia Management, as well as higher performance based compensation partially offset by lower legal expenses and lower hedge fund performance compensation. 79 Table of Contents Annuities The following table presents the results of operations of our Annuities segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 546 $ $ 546 $ 438 $ $ 438 $ 108 25 % Distribution fees 284 284 247 247 37 15 Net investment income 1,318 9 1,309 1,323 44 1,279 30 2 Premiums 150 150 104 104 46 44 Other revenues 202 202 153 153 49 32 Total revenues 2,500 9 2,491 2,265 44 2,221 270 12 Banking and deposit interest expense Total net revenues 2,500 9 2,491 2,265 44 2,221 270 12 Expenses Distribution expenses 268 268 211 211 57 27 Interest credited to fixed accounts 762 762 759 759 3 Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 691 9 682 418 154 264 418 NM Amortization of deferred acquisition costs (76 ) 16 (92 ) 37 (93 ) 130 (222 ) NM Interest and debt expense 2 2 2 NM General and administrative expense 205 205 192 192 13 7 Total expenses 1,852 25 1,827 1,617 61 1,556 271 17 % Pretax income $ 648 $ (16 ) $ 664 $ 648 $ (17 ) $ 665 $ (1 ) NM Not Meaningful. (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses and the market impact on variable annuity living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization. Our Annuities segment pretax income was $648 million for both 2010 and 2009. Our Annuities segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses and the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization, decreased $1 million to $664 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $665 million in the prior year. Net Revenues Net revenues increased $235 million, or 10%, to $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.3 billion for the prior year. Operating net revenues, which exclude net realized gains or losses, increased $270 million, or 12%, to $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.2 billion for the prior year reflecting increased management fees from higher separate account balances, increased premiums from immediate annuities with life contingencies and higher fees from variable annuity guarantees. Management and financial advice fees increased $108 million, or 25%, to $546 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $438 million for the prior year due to higher fees on variable annuities driven by higher separate account balances. Average variable annuities contract accumulation values increased $10.3 billion, or 25%, from the prior year due to higher equity market levels and net inflows. Variable annuity net inflows during 2010 were $1.2 billion driven by our introduction in the third quarter of a new variable annuity in the Ameriprise channel, RAVA 5, and an updated guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit rider in the Ameriprise and third party channels. Distribution fees increased $37 million, or 15%, to $284 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $247 million for the prior year primarily due to higher fees on variable annuities driven by higher separate account balances. Net investment income decreased $5 million to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating net investment income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, increased $30 million, or 2%, to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily driven by higher fixed annuity account balances and higher investment yields, partially offset by the negative impact of the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program. With these changes, assets of clients participating in the Portfolio Navigator program were reallocated, pursuant to their consent. This reallocation in part resulted in a shift of assets from interest bearing investments in the general account into separate accounts. 80 Table of Contents Premiums increased $46 million, or 44%, to $150 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $104 million for the prior year due to higher sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies. Other revenues increased $49 million, or 32%, to $202 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $153 million for the prior year due to higher fees from variable annuity guarantees. Expenses Total expenses increased $235 million, or 15%, to $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.6 billion for the prior year. Operating expenses, which exclude the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, DSIC and DAC amortization, increased $271 million, or 17%, to $1.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.6 billion for the prior year primarily due to increases in distribution expenses and benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses partially offset by a decrease in amortization of DAC. Distribution expenses increased $57 million, or 27%, to $268 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $211 million for the prior year primarily due to higher variable annuity compensation. Interest credited to fixed accounts increased $3 million to $762 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $759 million for the prior year due to higher average fixed annuity account balances partially offset by a lower average crediting rate on interest sensitive fixed annuities. Average fixed annuities contract accumulation values increased $600 million, or 4%, to $14.5 billion for 2010 compared to the prior year. The average fixed annuity crediting rate excluding capitalized interest decreased to 3.8% in 2010 compared to 3.9% in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $273 million, or 65%, to $691 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $418 million for the prior year. Operating benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses, which exclude the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges and DSIC amortization, increased $418 million to $682 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $264 million for the prior year primarily driven by the impact of updating valuation assumptions and model changes. Operating benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2010 included an expense of $256 million from updating valuation assumptions and model changes compared to a benefit of $57 million in the prior year. The market impact to DSIC was a benefit of $3 million in 2010 compared to a benefit of $4 million in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses related to our immediate annuities with life contingencies increased compared to the prior year primarily due to higher premiums. In addition, benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased as a result of the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program in the second quarter of 2010. Amortization of DAC decreased $113 million to a benefit of $76 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to an expense of $37 million in the prior year. Operating amortization of DAC, which excludes the DAC offset to the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, decreased $222 million to a benefit of $92 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to an expense of $130 million for the prior year primarily due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions and model changes. Operating amortization of DAC in 2010 included a benefit of $353 million from updating valuation assumptions and model changes compared to a benefit of $61 million in the prior year. The market impact on DAC amortization in 2010 was a benefit of $21 million compared to a benefit of $23 million in the prior year. An increase in DAC amortization related to higher variable annuity gross profits was partially offset by a decrease as a result of the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program in the second quarter of 2010. General and administrative expense increased $13 million, or 7%, to $205 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $192 million for the prior year primarily driven by additional expenses related to new product introductions and enhancements. 81 Table of Contents Protection The following table presents the results of operations of our Protection segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 54 $ $ 54 $ 47 $ $ 47 $ 7 15 % Distribution fees 96 96 97 97 (1 ) (1 ) Net investment income 429 1 428 422 27 395 33 8 Premiums 1,047 1,047 1,013 1,013 34 3 Other revenues 422 422 386 386 36 9 Total revenues 2,048 1 2,047 1,965 27 1,938 109 6 Banking and deposit interest expense 1 1 1 1 Total net revenues 2,047 1 2,046 1,964 27 1,937 109 6 Expenses Distribution expenses 32 32 22 22 10 45 Interest credited to fixed accounts 147 147 144 144 3 2 Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 1,059 1,059 916 916 143 16 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 183 183 159 159 24 15 General and administrative expense 223 223 226 226 (3 ) (1 ) Total expenses 1,644 1,644 1,467 1,467 177 12 Pretax income $ 403 $ 1 $ 402 $ 497 $ 27 $ 470 $ (68 ) (14 )% (1)Adjustments include net realized gains or losses. Our Protection segment pretax income was $403 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $94 million, or 19%, from $497 million for the prior year. Our Protection segment pretax operating income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, was $402 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $68 million, or 14%, from $470 million for the prior year. Net Revenues Net revenues increased $83 million, or 4%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $2.0 billion for the prior year. Operating net revenues, which exclude net realized gains or losses, increased $109 million, or 6%, to $2.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.9 billion for the prior year primarily due to the impact of updating valuation assumptions and model changes and an increase in net investment income and premiums. Management and financial advice fees increased $7 million, or 15%, to $54 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $47 million for the prior year primarily due to higher management fees from VUL separate account growth due to market appreciation. Net investment income increased $7 million, or 2%, to $429 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $422 million for the prior year. Operating net investment income, which excludes net realized gains or losses, increased $33 million, or 8%, to $428 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $395 million for the prior year primarily due to higher investment yields and increased general account assets. Premiums increased $34 million, or 3%, to $1.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.0 billion for the prior year due to growth in Auto and Home premiums driven by higher volumes. Auto and Home policy counts increased 9% period over period. Other revenues increased $36 million, or 9%, to $422 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $386 million for the prior year primarily due to updating valuation assumptions and model changes. Other revenues in 2010 included a charge of $20 million from updating valuation assumptions and model changes compared to a charge of $65 million in the prior year. 82  Table of Contents Expenses Total expenses increased $177 million, or 12%, to $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $1.5 billion for the prior year primarily due to updating valuation assumptions and model changes and an increase in insurance claims compared to the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $143 million, or 16%, to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $916 million for the prior year primarily due to updating valuation assumptions and model changes and higher claims in 2010. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2010 included an expense of $44 million from updating valuation assumptions and model changes compared to a benefit of $33 million in the prior year. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses related to our Auto and Home business increased compared to the prior year primarily due to higher business volumes and higher claims driven by $11 million in catastrophe losses from a hail storm in the Phoenix area and a $16 million reserve increase for higher auto liability claims. In addition, benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2010 included higher disability income and long term care insurance claims and higher reserves for UL products with secondary guarantees compared to the prior year. Amortization of DAC increased $24 million, or 15%, to $183 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $159 million in the prior year primarily due to updating valuation assumptions and model changes. Amortization of DAC for 2010 included a benefit of $22 million from updating valuation assumptions and model changes compared to a benefit of $55 million in the prior year. The market impact on DAC resulted in a benefit of $10 million in 2010 compared to a benefit of $3 million in the prior year. Corporate & Other The following table presents the results of operations of our Corporate & Other segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating GAAP Less: Adjustments(1) Operating Operating Change (in millions) Revenues Net investment income (loss) $ 273 $ 294 $ (21 ) $ (57 ) $ 2 $ (59 ) $ 38 64 % Other revenues 153 125 28 90 28 62 (34 ) (55 ) Total revenues 426 419 7 33 30 3 4 NM Banking and deposit interest expense 3 3 7 6 1 2 NM Total net revenues 423 419 4 26 24 2 2 100 Expenses Distribution expenses 1 1 3 3 (2 ) (67 ) Interest and debt expense 288 181 107 127 127 (20 ) (16 ) General and administrative expense 185 65 120 148 13 135 (15 ) (11 ) Total expenses 474 246 228 278 13 265 (37 ) (14 ) Pretax loss (51 ) 173 (224 ) (252 ) 11 (263 ) 39 15 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 163 163 15 15 Pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ (214 ) $ 10 $ (224 ) $ (267 ) $ (4 ) $ (263 ) $ 39 15 % NM Not Meaningful. (1)Includes revenues and expenses of the CIEs, net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. 83 Table of Contents The following table presents the components of the adjustments in the table above: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments CIEs Other Adjustments(1) Total Adjustments (in millions) Revenues Net investment income (loss) $ 275 $ 19 $ 294 $ 2 $ $ 2 Other revenues 125 125 28 28 Total revenues 400 19 419 30 30 Banking and deposit interest expense 6 6 Total net revenues 400 19 419 24 24 Expenses Distribution expenses Interest and debt expense 181 181 General and administrative expense 56 9 65 9 4 13 Total expenses 237 9 246 9 4 13 Pretax loss 163 10 173 15 (4 ) 11 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 163 163 15 15 Pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial $ $ 10 $ 10 $ $ (4 ) $ (4 ) (1)Other adjustments include net realized gains or losses and integration and restructuring charges. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial was $214 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $267 million in the prior year. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax operating loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial excludes net realized gains or losses, integration and restructuring charges and the impact of consolidating CIEs. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax operating loss attributable to Ameriprise Financial was $224 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $263 million in the prior year. Net revenues increased $397 million to $423 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $26 million for the prior year primarily reflecting revenues of CIEs. Operating net revenues, which exclude revenues of CIEs and net realized gains or losses, increased $2 million to $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Net investment income was $273 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $57 million in the prior year. Net investment income in 2010 primarily reflects changes in the assets and liabilities of CIEs, primarily debt and underlying syndicated loans. The decrease in operating net investment loss, which excludes revenues of CIEs and net realized gains or losses, reflects lower transfer priced interest income allocated to the Annuities and Protection segments for maintaining excess liquidity. Other revenues increased $63 million, or 70%, to $153 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily due to an increase in revenues of CIEs. Operating other revenues, which exclude revenues of CIEs, decreased $34 million, or 55%, to $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, due to a $58 million gain on the repurchase of certain of our junior notes in 2009 partially offset by a $25 million benefit from the payments related to the Reserve Funds matter in 2010. Total expenses increased $196 million, or 71%, to $474 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $278 million for the prior year primarily reflecting expenses of CIEs. Operating expenses, which exclude expenses of CIEs and integration and restructuring charges, decreased $37 million, or 14%, to $228 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $265 million for the prior year. Interest and debt expense increased $161 million to $288 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $127 million for the prior year primarily reflecting interest expense of the CIE debt. Operating interest and debt expense, which excludes interest expense of the CIE debt, decreased $20 million, or 16%, to $107 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $127 million for the prior year primarily due to an expense of $13 million in 2009 related to the early retirement of $450 million of our senior notes due 2010. General and administrative expense increased $37 million, or 25%, to $185 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $148 million for the prior year. Operating general and administrative expense, which excludes expenses of the CIEs and integration and restructuring charges, decreased $15 million, or 11%, to $120 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $135 million for the prior year. 84 Table of Contents Fair Value Measurements We report certain assets and liabilities at fair value; specifically, separate account assets, derivatives, embedded derivatives, properties held by our consolidated property funds, and most investments and cash equivalents. Fair value assumes the exchange of assets or liabilities occurs in orderly transactions. Companies are not permitted to use market prices that are the result of a forced liquidation or distressed sale. We include actual market prices, or observable inputs, in our fair value measurements to the extent available. Non binding broker quotes are obtained when quotes from third party pricing services are not available. We validate prices obtained from third parties through a variety of means as described in Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Non Agency Residential Mortgage Backed Securities Backed by Sub prime, Alt A or Prime Collateral Sub prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers with weak credit profiles. Alt A mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers who have credit ratings above sub prime but may not conform to government sponsored standards. Prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers with good credit profiles. We have exposure to each of these types of loans predominantly through mortgage backed and asset backed securities. The slowdown in the U.S. housing market, combined with relaxed underwriting standards by some originators, has led to higher delinquency and loss rates for some of these investments. Persistent market conditions have increased the likelihood of other than temporary impairments for certain non agency residential mortgage backed securities. As a part of our risk management process, an internal rating system is used in conjunction with market data as the basis of analysis to assess the likelihood that we will not receive all contractual principal and interest payments for these investments. For the investments that are more at risk for impairment, we perform our own assessment of projected cash flows incorporating assumptions about default rates, prepayment speeds and loss severity to determine if an other than temporary impairment should be recognized. The following table presents, as of December 31, 2011, our non agency residential mortgage backed and asset backed securities backed by sub prime, Alt A or prime mortgage loans by credit rating and vintage year: AAA AA A BBB BB & Below Total Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value (in millions) Sub prime 2003 & prior $ 5 $ 5 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 5 $ 5 2004 20 18 2 2 5 5 14 10 41 35 2005 41 40 36 33 10 10 28 23 115 106 2006 41 40 4 4 42 29 87 73 2007 15 14 2 2 5 1 22 17 2008 6 5 6 5 Re Remic(1) 10 10 3 3 27 26 40 39 Total Sub prime $ 132 $ 127 $ 44 $ 40 $ 18 $ 18 $ 33 $ 32 $ 89 $ 63 $ 316 $ 280 Alt A 2003 & prior $ 1 $ 1 $ 11 $ 12 $ $ $ 3 $ 3 $ $ $ 15 $ 16 2004 11 10 16 17 53 46 31 22 111 95 2005 1 1 9 7 262 176 272 184 2006 114 74 114 74 2007 168 94 168 94 2008 2009 2010 67 66 67 66 Re Remic(1) 180 178 3 3 7 7 190 188 Total Alt A $ 248 $ 245 $ 22 $ 22 $ 20 $ 21 $ 72 $ 63 $ 575 $ 366 $ 937 $ 717 Prime 2003 & prior $ 107 $ 110 $ 43 $ 42 $ 109 $ 105 $ 10 $ 10 $ $ $ 269 $ 267 2004 17 17 56 53 23 22 30 27 62 44 188 163 2005 3 3 18 19 6 6 221 182 248 210 2006 14 15 32 31 46 46 2007 27 25 31 28 58 53 Re Remic(1) 1,664 1,734 255 266 238 241 9 16 2,166 2,257 Total Prime $ 1,788 $ 1,861 $ 357 $ 364 $ 429 $ 427 $ 46 $ 43 $ 355 $ 301 $ 2,975 $ 2,996 Grand Total $ 2,168 $ 2,233 $ 423 $ 426 $ 467 $ 466 $ 151 $ 138 $ 1,019 $ 730 $ 4,228 $ 3,993 (1)Re Remics of mortgage backed securities are prior vintages with cash flows structured into senior and subordinated bonds. Credit enhancement has been increased through the Re Remic process on the securities we own. 85 Table of Contents European Exposure The following table presents, as of December 31, 2011, our exposure to European debt by country segregated between sovereign and non sovereign (financial and non financial corporate debt) exposure: Sovereign Financials Non Financials Total Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value % of Invested Assets(1) (in millions, except percentage) Greece $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 0.0 % Italy 117 114 117 114 0.3 % Ireland 40 39 40 39 0.1 % Portugal 0.0 % Spain 134 130 134 130 0.3 % Subtotal 291 283 291 283 0.7 % Other European exposure 30 31 420 387 938 1,004 1,388 1,422 3.4 % Total $ 30 $ 31 $ 420 $ 387 $ 1,229 $ 1,287 $ 1,679 $ 1,705 4.1 % (1)Invested assets include cash and cash equivalents and investments. The non financial corporate debt holdings in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain are primarily in utilities/telecommunications. The non financial corporate debt holdings in other European countries are multinational companies concentrated in utilities and non cyclical industrials. We have no exposure to deeply subordinated instruments. We do not hedge our European exposure and we have no unfunded commitments related to our European debt holdings as of December 31, 2011. Fair Value of Liabilities and Nonperformance Risk Companies are required to measure the fair value of liabilities at the price that would be received to transfer the liability to a market participant (an exit price). Since there is not a market for our obligations of our variable annuity riders, we consider the assumptions participants in a hypothetical market would make to reflect an exit price. As a result, we adjust the valuation of variable annuity riders by updating certain contractholder assumptions, adding explicit margins to provide for profit, risk and expenses, and adjusting the rates used to discount expected cash flows to reflect a current market estimate of our nonperformance risk. The nonperformance risk adjustment is based on non binding broker quotes for credit default swaps that are adjusted to estimate the risk of our life insurance company subsidiaries not fulfilling these liabilities. Consistent with general market conditions, this estimate resulted in a spread over the LIBOR swap curve as of December 31, 2011. As our estimate of this spread widens or tightens, the liability will decrease or increase. If this nonperformance credit spread moves to a zero spread over the LIBOR swap curve, the reduction to net income would be approximately $226 million, net of DAC and DSIC amortization and income taxes, based on December 31, 2011 credit spreads. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We maintained substantial liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2011. At both December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had $2.8 billion in cash and cash equivalents. We have additional liquidity available through an unsecured revolving credit facility for up to $500 million that expires in November 2015. Under the terms of the underlying credit agreement, we can increase this facility to $750 million upon satisfaction of certain approval requirements. Available borrowings under this facility are reduced by any outstanding letters of credit. We have had no borrowings under this credit facility and had $2 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2011. In March 2010, we issued $750 million of 5.30% senior notes due 2020. A portion of the proceeds was used to retire $340 million of debt that matured in November 2010. On April 30, 2010, we closed on the Columbia Management Acquisition and paid $866 million in the second quarter with cash on hand and assumed liabilities of $30 million. Our subsidiaries, Ameriprise Bank, FSB and RiverSource Life Insurance Company ("RiverSource Life"), are members of the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") of Des Moines, which provides these subsidiaries with access to collateralized borrowings. As of December 31, 2011, we had no borrowings from the FHLB. Beginning in 2010, we entered into repurchase agreements to reduce reinvestment risk from higher levels of expected annuity net cash flows. Repurchase agreements allow us to receive cash to reinvest in longer duration assets, while paying back the short term debt with cash flows generated by the fixed income portfolio. The balance of repurchase agreements at December 31, 2011 was $504 million, which is collateralized with agency residential mortgage backed securities and commercial mortgage backed securities from our investment portfolio. We believe cash flows from operating activities, available cash balances and our availability of revolver borrowings will be sufficient to fund our operating liquidity needs. 86 Table of Contents Dividends from Subsidiaries Ameriprise Financial is primarily a parent holding company for the operations carried out by our wholly owned subsidiaries. Because of our holding company structure, our ability to meet our cash requirements, including the payment of dividends on our common stock, substantially depends upon the receipt of dividends or return of capital from our subsidiaries, particularly our life insurance subsidiary, RiverSource Life; our face amount certificate subsidiary, Ameriprise Certificate Company ("ACC"); AMPF Holding Corporation, which is the parent company of our retail introducing broker dealer subsidiary, Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. ("AFSI") and our clearing broker dealer subsidiary, American Enterprise Investment Services Inc. ("AEIS"); our Auto and Home insurance subsidiary, IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company ("IDS Property Casualty"), doing business as Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance; our transfer agent subsidiary, Columbia Management Investment Services Corp.; our investment advisory company, Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC; and Threadneedle. The payment of dividends by many of our subsidiaries is restricted and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital requirements. Actual capital and regulatory capital requirements for our wholly owned subsidiaries subject to regulatory capital requirements were as follows: Actual Capital Regulatory Capital Requirements December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 (in millions) RiverSource Life(1)(2) $ 3,058 $ 3,813 $ 619 $ 652 RiverSource Life of NY(1)(2) 254 291 41 38 IDS Property Casualty(1)(3) 431 411 148 141 Ameriprise Insurance Company(1)(3) 41 44 2 2 ACC(4)(5) 164 184 151 173 Threadneedle(6) 218 182 170 104 Ameriprise Bank, FSB(7) 402 302 391 294 AFSI(3)(4) 115 119 2 1 Ameriprise Captive Insurance Company(3) 43 38 16 12 Ameriprise Trust Company(3) 44 41 41 40 AEIS(3)(4) 122 115 42 35 Securities America, Inc.(3)(4)(8) 2 # RiverSource Distributors, Inc.(3)(4) 27 24 # # Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc.(3)(4) 30 27 # # #Amounts are less than $1 million. (1)Actual capital is determined on a statutory basis. (2)Regulatory capital requirement is based on the statutory risk based capital filing. (3)Regulatory capital requirement is based on the applicable regulatory requirement, calculated as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. (4)Actual capital is determined on an adjusted GAAP basis. (5)ACC is required to hold capital in compliance with the Minnesota Department of Commerce and SEC capital requirements. (6)Actual capital and regulatory capital requirements are determined in accordance with U.K. regulatory legislation. The actual capital and the regulatory capital requirements at December 31, 2011 represent managements assessment at September 30, 2011 of the risk based requirements, as specified by FSA regulations and submitted to the FSA in December 2011. (7)Ameriprise Bank is required to maintain capital in compliance with the Office of the Comptroller of Currency ("OCC") regulations and policies. Under the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the responsibility for the ongoing examination, supervision, and regulation of federal savings associations, including Ameriprise Bank, transferred from the Office of Thrift Supervision to the OCC effective July 21, 2011. (8)Securities America was sold in the fourth quarter of 2011. In addition to the particular regulations restricting dividend payments and establishing subsidiary capitalization requirements, we take into account the overall health of the business, capital levels and risk management considerations in determining a dividend strategy for payments to our company from our subsidiaries, and in deciding to use cash to make capital contributions to our subsidiaries. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the parent holding company received cash dividends or a return of capital from its subsidiaries of $1.2 billion (including $750 million from RiverSource Life) and contributed cash to its subsidiaries of $128 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2011, RiverSource Life paid an $850 million dividend to the parent holding company consisting of high quality, short duration securities. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the parent holding company received cash dividends or a return of capital from its subsidiaries of $912 million (including $500 million from RiverSource Life) and contributed cash to its subsidiaries of $73 million. 87 Table of Contents The following table presents the dividends that could have been paid within the limitations of the applicable regulatory authorities as further described below, excluding extraordinary dividends for the years ended December 31: 2011 2010 2009 (in millions) RiverSource Life(1) $ 1,200 $ 886 $ 253 AEIS(2) 154 ACC(3) 70 171 87 Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC 295 191 89 Columbia Management Investment Services Corporation 5 3 Threadneedle 82 125 95 Ameriprise Trust Company 1 4 Securities America Financial Corporation(4) 2 15 AFSI(2) 78 IDS Property Casualty(5) 40 44 42 Ameriprise Captive Insurance Company 27 26 16 RiverSource Distributors, Inc. 26 23 41 AMPF Holding Corporation(2) 334 282 Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. 30 27 13 Total dividend capacity $ 2,110 $ 1,777 $ 890 (1)RiverSource Life dividends in excess of statutory unassigned funds require advance notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce, RiverSource Lifes primary regulator, and are subject to potential disapproval. In addition, dividends whose fair market value, together with that of other dividends or distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater of (1) the previous years statutory net gain from operations or (2) 10% of the previous year end statutory capital and surplus are referred to as "extraordinary dividends." Extraordinary dividends also require advance notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce, and are subject to potential disapproval. For dividends exceeding these thresholds, RiverSource Life provided notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce and received responses indicating that it did not object to the payment of these dividends. (2)In 2009, AEIS and AFSI became subsidiaries of AMPF Holding Corporation. For AEIS and AFSI the dividend capacity is based on an internal model used to determine the availability of dividends, while maintaining net capital at a level sufficiently in excess of minimum levels defined by Securities and Exchange Commission rules. (3)The dividend capacity for ACC is based on capital held in excess of regulatory requirements. (4)Securities America was sold in the fourth quarter of 2011. (5)The dividend capacity for IDS Property Casualty is based on the lesser of (1) 10% of the previous year end capital and surplus or (2) the greater of (a) net income (excluding realized gains) of the previous year or (b) the aggregate net income of the previous three years excluding realized gains less any dividends paid within the first two years of the three year period. Dividends that, together with the amount of other distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceed this statutory limitation are referred to as "extraordinary dividends" and require advance notice to the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Wisconsin, the primary state regulator of IDS Property Casualty, and are subject to potential disapproval. The following table presents the cash dividends paid or return of capital to the parent holding company, net of cash capital contributions made by the parent holding company for the following subsidiaries for the years ended December 31: 2011 2010 2009 (in millions) RiverSource Life(1) $ 750 $ 500 $ Ameriprise Bank, FSB (71 ) (35 ) (85 ) ACC 57 160 25 Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC 250 90 Columbia Management Investment Services Corporation 3 Threadneedle 34 48 49 Ameriprise Trust Company (3 ) (5 ) Securities America Financial Corporation(2) (10 ) IDS Property Casualty 30 85 Ameriprise Advisor Capital, LLC (44 ) (33 ) (10 ) AMPF Holding Corporation(3) 140 84 (38 ) Other 2 Total $ 1,103 $ 839 $ 31 (1)In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2011, RiverSource Life paid an $850 million dividend to the parent holding company consisting of high quality, short duration securities. (2)Securities America was sold in the fourth quarter of 2011. (3)In 2009, AEIS and AFSI became subsidiaries of AMPF Holding Corporation. For AEIS and AFSI the dividend capacity is based on an internal model used to determine the availability of dividends, while maintaining net capital at a level sufficiently in excess of minimum levels defined by Securities and Exchange Commission rules. 88  Table of Contents Dividends Paid to Shareholders and Share Repurchases We paid regular quarterly cash dividends to our shareholders totaling $212 million and $183 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. On December 7, 2011, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.28 per common share. The dividend will be paid on February 24, 2012 to our shareholders of record at the close of business on February 10, 2012. On May 11, 2010, we announced that our board of directors authorized an expenditure of up to $1.5 billion for the repurchase of shares of our common stock through the date of our 2012 annual shareholders meeting. On June 15, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized an additional expenditure of up to $2.0 billion for the repurchase of shares of our common stock through June 28, 2013. We intend to fund share repurchases through existing working capital, future earnings and other customary financing methods. The share repurchase program does not require the purchase of any minimum number of shares, and depending on market conditions and other factors, these purchases may be commenced or suspended at any time without prior notice. Acquisitions under the share repurchase program may be made in the open market, through privately negotiated transactions or block trades or other means. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we repurchased a total of 27.9 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $52.15 per share. As of December 31, 2011, we had $1.5 billion remaining under our share repurchase authorizations. In both 2011 and 2010, we extinguished $14 million principal amount of our junior notes due 2066. In the future, we may from time to time seek to retire or purchase additional outstanding debt through cash purchases in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, without prior notice. Such repurchases, if any, will depend upon market conditions and other factors. The amounts involved could be material. Cash Flows Cash flows of CIEs are reflected in our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities. Cash held by CIEs is not available for general use by Ameriprise Financial, nor is Ameriprise Financial cash available for general use by its CIEs. As such, the operating, investing and financing cash flows of the CIEs have no impact to the change in cash and cash equivalents. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $331 million to $2.2 billion compared to $1.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 included a negative impact of $188 million related to CIEs compared to a positive impact of $148 million in the prior year. In 2011, operating cash increased $738 million due to an increase in net cash collateral held related to derivative instruments compared to an increase of $111 million in the prior year. Income taxes paid increased $309 million in 2011 compared to the prior year. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2011 included an increase in cash generated from higher fee revenue, partially offset by higher payments for distribution expenses. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $1.8 billion compared to net cash used in operating activities of $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 included a positive impact of $148 million related to CIEs compared to a negative impact of $453 million in the prior year. In 2009, operating cash flows were reduced by $1.9 billion due to a decrease in net cash collateral held related to derivative instruments compared to an increase of $111 million in 2010. The increase in operating cash compared to the prior year was also driven by higher fee revenue, partially offset by higher advisor compensation. Investing Activities Our investing activities primarily relate to our Available for Sale investment portfolio. Further, this activity is significantly affected by the net flows of our investment certificate, fixed annuity and UL products reflected in financing activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $734 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Cash used to purchase Available for Sale securities decreased $266 million compared to the prior year and cash proceeds from sales and maturities, sinking fund payments and calls of Available for Sale securities decreased $1.8 billion compared to the prior year. We paid cash of $866 million for the Columbia Management Acquisition in 2010 and received cash of $150 million in 2011 for the sale of Securities America. Net cash used in investing activities decreased $5.6 billion to $734 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $6.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to a $10.3 billion decrease in cash used for purchases of Available for Sale securities, partially offset by a $3.6 billion reduction in proceeds from sales and maturities, sinking fund payments and calls of Available for Sale securities. We also paid cash of $866 million for the Columbia Management Acquisition in 2010. 89 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. Net cash inflows related to policyholder and contractholder account values were $106 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to net cash outflows of $1.1 billion for the prior year. Net cash outflows related to policyholder and contractholder account values in the prior year included net transfers to separate accounts of $1.3 billion primarily due to the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program. Cash outflows related to investment certificates and banking time deposits decreased $472 million due to lower maturities, withdrawals and cash surrenders compared to the prior year. Cash provided by other banking deposits increased $368 million compared to the prior year. Net cash inflows related to changes in repurchase agreements decreased $290 million compared to the prior year. Cash proceeds from issuance of debt, net of issuance costs, was $744 million in 2010 compared to nil in 2011. Cash used for the repurchase of common stock increased $913 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year. Net cash used in financing activities was $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $4.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Net cash outflows related to policyholder and contractholder account values were $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to net cash inflows of $3.1 billion for the prior year primarily due to a decrease in fixed annuity deposits and the transfer of general account assets to separate accounts from the implementation of changes to the Portfolio Navigator program. Proceeds from sales of investment certificates and banking time deposits decreased $1.4 billion compared to the prior year primarily due to the run off of certificate rate promotions, partially offset by a $1.3 billion decrease in maturities, withdrawals and cash surrenders. Cash provided by other banking deposits decreased $345 million compared to the prior year. Cash received due to issuance of debt, net of repayments, increased $449 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year. In 2010, net cash received related to repurchase agreements was $397 million. In 2009, we received cash of $869 million from the issuance of common stock. Cash used for the repurchase of common stock increased $571 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year. Contractual Commitments The contractual obligations identified in the table below include both our on and off balance sheet transactions that represent material expected or contractually committed future obligations. Payments due by period as of December 31, 2011 were as follows: Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 and Thereafter (in millions) Balance Sheet: Long term debt(1) $ 2,244 $ $ $ 700 $ 1,544 Insurance and annuities(2) 48,653 2,582 5,587 5,834 34,650 Investment certificates(3) 2,771 2,554 217 Deferred premium options(4) 2,531 372 673 561 925 Affordable housing partnerships(5) 267 168 96 1 2 Off Balance Sheet: Lease obligations 608 97 171 134 206 Purchase obligations(6) 493 154 188 85 66 Interest on long term debt(7) 2,273 139 278 233 1,623 Total $ 59,840 $ 6,066 $ 7,210 $ 7,548 $ 39,016 (1)See Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our long term debt. (2)These scheduled payments are represented by reserves of approximately $31.2 billion at December 31, 2011 and are based on interest credited, mortality, morbidity, lapse, surrender and premium payment assumptions. Actual payment obligations may differ if experience varies from these assumptions. Separate account liabilities have been excluded as associated contractual obligations would be met by separate account assets. (3)The payments due by year are based on contractual term maturities. However, contractholders have the right to redeem the investment certificates earlier and at their discretion subject to surrender charges, if any. Redemptions are most likely to occur in periods of substantial increases in interest rates. (4)The fair value of these commitments included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets was $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2011. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our deferred premium options. (5)Affordable housing partnership commitments are related to investments in low income housing tax credit partnerships. Call dates for the obligations presented are either date or event specific. For date specific obligations, the Company is required to fund a specific amount on a stated date provided there are no defaults under the agreement. For event specific obligations, the Company is required to fund a specific amount of its capital commitment when properties in a fund become fully stabilized. For event specific obligations, the estimated call date of these commitments is used in the table above. (6)Purchase obligations include the minimum contractual amounts by period under contracts that were in effect at December 31, 2011. Many of the purchase agreements giving rise to these purchase obligations include termination clauses that may require payment of termination fees if the agreements are terminated by the Company without cause prior to their stated expiration; however, the table reflects the amounts to be paid assuming the contracts are not terminated. (7)Interest on debt was estimated based on rates in effect as of December 31, 2011. 90 Table of Contents In addition to the contractual commitments outlined in the table above, we periodically fund the employees defined benefit plans. We contributed $72 million and $64 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, to our pension plans. In 2012, we expect to contribute $46 million to our pension plans and $2 million to our defined benefit postretirement plans. See Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Total loan funding commitments, which are not included in the table above due to uncertainty with respect to timing of future cash flows, were $2.4 billion at December 31, 2011. For additional information relating to these contractual commitments, see Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We provide asset management services to various collateralized debt obligations and other investment products, which are sponsored by us for the investment of client assets in the normal course of business. Certain of these investment entities are considered to be variable interest entities while others are considered to be voting rights entities. We consolidate certain of these investment entities. For entities that we do not consolidate, our maximum exposure to loss is our investment in the entity, which was not material as of December 31, 2011. We have no obligation to provide further financial or other support to these structured investments nor have we provided any support to these structured investments. See Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our arrangements with structured investments. Forward Looking Statements This report contains forward looking statements that reflect managements plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those described in these forward looking statements. Examples of such forward looking statements include: statements of the Companys plans, intentions, positioning, expectations, objectives or goals, including those relating to asset flows, mass affluent and affluent client acquisition strategy, client retention and growth of our client base, financial advisor productivity, retention, recruiting and enrollments, acquisition integration, general and administrative costs; consolidated tax rate, return of capital to shareholders, and excess capital position and financial flexibility to capture additional growth opportunities; other statements about future economic performance, the performance of equity markets and interest rate variations and the economic performance of the United States and of global markets; and statements of assumptions underlying such statements. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "optimistic," "intend," "plan," "aim," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely," "forecast," "on pace," "project" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: changes in the valuations, liquidity and volatility in the interest rate, credit default, equity market, and foreign exchange environments; changes in and the adoption of relevant accounting standards, as well as changes in the litigation and regulatory environment, including ongoing legal proceedings and regulatory actions, the frequency and extent of legal claims threatened or initiated by clients, other persons and regulators, and developments in regulation and legislation, including the rules and regulations implemented or to be implemented in connection with the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; investment management performance and distribution partner and consumer acceptance of the Companys products; effects of competition in the financial services industry and changes in product distribution mix and distribution channels; changes to the Companys reputation that may arise from employee or affiliated advisor misconduct, legal or regulatory actions, improper management of conflicts of interest or otherwise; the Companys capital structure, including indebtedness, limitations on subsidiaries to pay dividends, and the extent, manner, terms and timing of any share or debt repurchases management may effect as well as the opinions of rating agencies and other analysts and the reactions of market participants or the Companys regulators, advisors, distribution partners or customers in response to any change or prospect of change in any such opinion; changes to the availability of liquidity and the Companys credit capacity that may arise due to shifts in market conditions, the Companys credit ratings and the overall availability of credit; 91 Table of Contents risks of default, capacity constraint or repricing by issuers or guarantors of investments the Company owns or by counterparties to hedge, derivative, insurance or reinsurance arrangements or by manufacturers of products the Company distributes, experience deviations from the Companys assumptions regarding such risks, the evaluations or the prospect of changes in evaluations of any such third parties published by rating agencies or other analysts, and the reactions of other market participants or the Companys regulators, advisors, distribution partners or customers in response to any such evaluation or prospect of changes in evaluation; with respect to VIE pooled investments the Company has determined do not require consolidation under GAAP, the Companys assessment that it does not have the power over the VIE or hold a variable interest in these investments for which the Company has the potential to receive significant benefits or to absorb significant losses; experience deviations from the Companys assumptions regarding morbidity, mortality and persistency in certain annuity and insurance products, or from assumptions regarding market returns assumed in valuing or unlocking DAC and DSIC or market volatility underlying the Companys valuation and hedging of guaranteed living benefit annuity riders; or from assumptions regarding anticipated claims and losses relating to the Companys automobile and home insurance products; changes in capital requirements that may be indicated, required or advised by regulators or rating agencies; the impacts of the Companys efforts to improve distribution economics and to grow third party distribution of its products; the Companys ability to pursue and complete strategic transactions and initiatives, including acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, joint ventures and the development of new products and services; the Companys ability to realize the financial, operating and business fundamental benefits or to obtain regulatory approvals regarding integrations we plan for the acquisitions we have completed or may pursue and contract to complete in the future, as well as the amount and timing of integration expenses; the ability and timing to realize savings and other benefits from re engineering and tax planning; changes in the capital markets and competitive environments induced or resulting from the partial or total ownership or other support by central governments of certain financial services firms or financial assets; and general economic and political factors, including consumer confidence in the economy, the ability and inclination of consumers generally to invest as well as their ability and inclination to invest in financial instruments and products other than cash and cash equivalents, the costs of products and services the Company consumes in the conduct of its business, and applicable legislation and regulation and changes therein, including tax laws, tax treaties, fiscal and central government treasury policy, and policies regarding the financial services industry and publicly held firms, and regulatory rulings and pronouncements. Management cautions the reader that the foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. There may also be other risks that management is unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Management undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward looking statements.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market Risk Our primary market risk exposures are interest rate, equity price, foreign currency exchange rate and credit risk. Equity price and interest rate fluctuations can have a significant impact on our results of operations, primarily due to the effects they have on the asset management and other asset based fees we earn, the spread income generated on our annuities, banking, brokerage client cash balances, and face amount certificate products and UL insurance products, the value of DAC and DSIC assets, the values of liabilities for guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuities and the values of derivatives held to hedge these benefits. The guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuities are guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ("GMWB"), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ("GMAB"), guaranteed minimum death benefits ("GMDB") and guaranteed minimum income benefits ("GMIB"). Each of these guaranteed benefits guarantees payouts to the annuity holder under certain specific conditions regardless of the performance of the underlying investment assets. We continue to utilize a hedging program which attempts to match the sensitivity of the assets with the sensitivity of the liabilities. This approach works with the premise that matched sensitivities will produce a highly effective hedging result. Our comprehensive hedging program focuses mainly on first order sensitivities of assets and liabilities; Equity Market Level (Delta), Interest Rate Level (Rho) and Volatility (Vega). Additionally, various second order sensitivities are managed. We use various index options across the term structure, interest rate swaps and swaptions, total return swaps and futures to 92 Table of Contents manage the risk exposures. The exposures are measured and monitored daily, and adjustments to the hedge portfolio are made as necessary. To evaluate interest rate and equity price risk we perform sensitivity testing which measures the impact on pretax income from the sources listed below for a 12 month period following a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates or a hypothetical 10% decline in equity prices. The interest rate risk test assumes a sudden 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve, with rates then staying at those levels for the next 12 months. The equity price risk test assumes a sudden 10% drop in equity prices, with equity prices then staying at those levels for the next 12 months. In estimating the values of variable annuity riders, equity indexed annuities, stock market certificates and the associated hedge assets, we assumed no change in implied market volatility despite the 10% drop in equity prices. The following tables present our estimate of the impact on pretax income from these hypothetical market movements as of December 31, 2011: Equity Price Exposure to Pretax Income Equity Price Decline 10% Before Hedge Impact Hedge Impact Net Impact (in millions) Asset based management and distribution fees(1) $ (174 ) $ 4 $ (170 ) DAC and DSIC amortization(2)(3) (137 ) (137 ) Variable annuity riders: GMDB and GMIB(3) (53 ) (53 ) GMWB (148 ) 198 50 GMAB (52 ) 68 16 DAC and DSIC amortization(4) N/A N/A (25 ) Total variable annuity riders (253 ) 266 (12 ) Equity indexed annuities 1 (1 ) Stock market certificates 2 (2 ) Total $ (561 ) $ 267 $ (319 ) Interest Rate Exposure to Pretax Income Interest Rate Increase 100 Basis Points Before Hedge Impact Hedge Impact Net Impact (in millions) Asset based management and distribution fees(1) $ (36 ) $ $ (36 ) Variable annuity riders: GMWB 544 (580 ) (36 ) GMAB 51 (52 ) (1 ) DAC and DSIC amortization(4) N/A N/A 10 Total variable annuity riders 595 (632 ) (27 ) Fixed annuities, fixed portion of variable annuities and fixed insurance products 22 22 Brokerage client cash balances 86 86 Flexible savings and other fixed rate savings products 16 16 Total $ 683 $ (632 ) $ 61 N/A Not Applicable. (1)Excludes incentive income which is impacted by market and fund performance during the period and cannot be readily estimated. (2)Market impact on DAC and DSIC amortization resulting from lower projected profits. (3)In estimating the impact on DAC and DSIC amortization resulting from lower projected profits, we have not changed our assumed equity asset growth rates. This is a significantly more conservative estimate than if we assumed management follows its mean reversion guideline and increased near term rates to recover the drop in equity values over a five year period. We make this same conservative assumption in estimating the impact from GMDB and GMIB riders. (4)Market impact on DAC and DSIC amortization related to variable annuity riders is modeled net of hedge impact. The above results compare to an estimated negative net impact to pretax income of $326 million related to a 10% equity price decline and an estimated positive net impact to pretax income of $11 million related to a 100 basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2010. The change in interest rate sensitivity at December 31, 2011 compared to the prior year is primarily due to a decrease in interest rates. Net impacts shown in the above table from GMWB and GMAB riders result largely from differences between the liability valuation basis and the hedging basis. Liabilities are valued using fair value accounting principles, with key policyholder behavior assumptions loaded to provide risk margins and with discount rates increased to reflect a current market estimate of our risk of nonperformance specific to these liabilities. For variable annuity riders introduced prior to mid 2009, management elected to hedge based on best estimate policyholder behavior assumptions. For riders issued since mid 2009, management has been hedging on a basis that includes risk margins related to policyholder behavior. The nonperformance spread risk is not hedged. 93 Table of Contents Actual results could differ materially from those illustrated above as they are based on a number of estimates and assumptions. These include assuming that implied market volatility does not change when equity prices fall by 10%, that management does not increase assumed equity asset growth rates to anticipate recovery of the drop in equity values when valuing DAC, DSIC and GMDB and GMIB liability values and that the 100 basis point increase in interest rates is a parallel shift of the yield curve. Furthermore, we have not tried to anticipate changes in client preferences for different types of assets or other changes in client behavior, nor have we tried to anticipate actions management might take to increase revenues or reduce expenses in these scenarios. The selection of a 100 basis point interest rate increase as well as a 10% equity price decline should not be construed as a prediction of future market events. Impacts of larger or smaller changes in interest rates or equity prices may not be proportional to those shown for a 100 basis point increase in interest rates or a 10% decline in equity prices. Asset Based Management and Distribution Fees We earn asset based management fees and distribution fees on our assets under management. At December 31, 2011, the value of our assets under management was $527.6 billion. These sources of revenue are subject to both interest rate and equity price risk since the value of these assets and the fees they earn fluctuate inversely with interest rates and directly with equity prices. We do not currently hedge the interest rate or equity price risk of this exposure. DAC and DSIC Amortization For annuity and UL products, DAC and DSIC are amortized on the basis of estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits are a proxy for pretax income prior to the recognition of DAC and DSIC amortization expense. When events occur that reduce or increase current period estimated gross profits, DAC and DSIC amortization expense is typically reduced or increased as well, somewhat mitigating the impact of the event on pretax income. Variable Annuity Riders The total contract value of all variable annuities at December 31, 2011 was $62.3 billion compared to $62.6 billion at December 31, 2010. These contract values include GMWB and GMAB contracts which were $27.6 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2011, compared to $24.7 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, reserves for GMWB and GMAB were $1.4 billion and $237 million, respectively, compared to $337 million and $104 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. The increase in reserves for GMWB and GMAB reflect the changes in economic factors impacting the mark to market value of the guarantees and increased volume of business. At December 31, 2011, the reserve for the other variable annuity guaranteed benefits, GMDB and GMIB, was $14 million compared to $13 million at December 31, 2010. Equity Price Risk Variable Annuity Riders The variable annuity guaranteed benefits guarantee payouts to the annuity holder under certain specific conditions regardless of the performance of the investment assets. For this reason, when equity prices decline, the returns from the separate account assets coupled with guaranteed benefit fees from annuity holders may not be sufficient to fund expected payouts. In that case, reserves must be increased with a negative impact to earnings. The core derivative instruments with which we hedge the equity price risk of our GMWB and GMAB provisions are longer dated put and call derivatives; these core instruments are supplemented with equity futures and total return swaps. See Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our derivative instruments. Interest Rate Risk Variable Annuity Riders The GMAB and the non life contingent benefits associated with the GMWB provisions create embedded derivatives which are carried at fair value separately from the underlying host variable annuity contract. Changes in the fair value of the GMWB and GMAB liabilities are recorded through earnings with fair value calculated based on projected, discounted cash flows over the life of the contract, including projected, discounted benefits and fees. Increases in interest rates reduce the fair value of the GMWB and GMAB liabilities. The GMWB and GMAB interest rate exposure is hedged with a portfolio of longer dated put and call derivatives, interest rate swaps and swaptions. We have entered into interest rate swaps according to risk exposures along maturities, thus creating both fixed rate payor and variable rate payor terms. If interest rates were to increase, we would have to pay more to the swap counterparty, and the fair value of our equity puts would decrease, resulting in a negative impact to our pretax income. Fixed Annuities, Fixed Portion of Variable Annuities and Fixed Insurance Products Interest rate exposures arise primarily with respect to the fixed account portion of annuity and insurance products of RiverSource Life companies and their investment portfolios. We guarantee an interest rate to the holders of these products. Premiums and deposits collected from clients are primarily invested in fixed rate securities to fund the client credited rate with the spread between the rate earned from investments and the rate credited to clients recorded as earned income. Client liabilities and investment assets generally differ as it relates to basis, repricing or maturity characteristics. Rates credited to clients accounts generally reset at shorter intervals than the yield on the underlying 94 Table of Contents investments. Therefore, in an increasing interest rate environment, higher interest rates are reflected in crediting rates to clients sooner than in rates earned on invested assets resulting in a reduced spread between the two rates, reduced earned income and a negative impact on pretax income. Of the $31.7 billion in future policy benefits and claims on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011, $29.5 billion related to liabilities created by these products. We do not hedge this exposure. Brokerage Client Cash Balances We pay interest on certain brokerage client cash balances and have the ability to reset these rates from time to time based on prevailing economic and business conditions. We earn revenue to fund the interest paid from interest earning assets or fees from off balance sheet deposits at FDIC insured institutions, which are indexed to short term interest rates. In general, the change in interest paid lags the change in revenues earned. Flexible Savings and Other Fixed Rate Savings Products We have interest rate risk from our flexible savings and other fixed rate savings products. These products are primarily investment certificates generally ranging in amounts from $1,000 to $1 million with interest crediting rate terms ranging from three to 36 months, as well as other savings products sold through Ameriprise Bank. We guarantee an interest rate to the holders of these products. Payments collected from clients are primarily invested in fixed rate securities to fund the client credited rate with the spread between the rate earned from investments and the rate credited to clients recorded as earned income. Client liabilities and investment assets generally differ as it relates to basis, repricing or maturity characteristics. Rates credited to clients generally reset at shorter intervals than the yield on underlying investments. This exposure is not currently hedged although we monitor our investment strategy and make modifications based on our changing liabilities and the expected interest rate environment. Of the $9.9 billion in customer deposits at December 31, 2011, $2.0 billion related to reserves for our fixed rate certificate products and $4.7 billion related to reserves for our banking products. Equity Indexed Annuities Our equity indexed annuity product is a single premium annuity issued with an initial term of seven years. The annuity guarantees the contractholder a minimum return of 3% on 90% of the initial premium or end of prior term accumulation value upon renewal plus a return that is linked to the performance of the S&P 500 Index. The equity linked return is based on a participation rate initially set at between 50% and 90% of the S&P 500 Index, which is guaranteed for the initial seven year term when the contract is held to full term. At December 31, 2011, we had $60 million in reserves related to equity indexed annuities. We discontinued new sales of equity indexed annuities in 2007. Equity Price Risk Equity Indexed Annuities The equity linked return to investors creates equity price risk as the amount credited depends on changes in equity prices. To hedge this exposure, we purchase futures, calls and puts which generate returns to replicate what we must credit to client accounts. In conjunction with purchasing puts we also write puts. Pairing purchased puts with written puts allows us to better match the characteristics of the liability. Interest Rate Risk Equity Indexed Annuities Most of the proceeds received from equity indexed annuities are invested in fixed income securities with the return on those investments intended to fund the 3% guarantee. We earn income from the difference between the return earned on invested assets and the 3% guarantee rate credited to customer accounts. The spread between return earned and amount credited is affected by changes in interest rates. Indexed Universal Life In 2011, we began offering IUL insurance. IUL is similar to UL in that it provides life insurance coverage and cash value that increases as a result of credited interest. Also, like UL, there is a minimum guaranteed credited rate of interest. Unlike UL the rate of credited interest above the minimum guarantee is linked to the S&P 500 Index (subject to a cap). At December 31, 2011, we had $7 million in reserves related to the index account of IUL. The equity linked return to investors creates equity price risk as the amount credited depends on changes in equity prices. To hedge this exposure, a portion of the proceeds from the sale of IUL is used to purchase call spreads which generate returns to replicate what we must credit to client accounts. The estimate of the impact on pretax income for a hypothetical 10% equity market movement as of December 31, 2011 is not material. Stock Market Certificates Stock market certificates are purchased for amounts generally from $1,000 to $1 million for terms of 52 weeks which can be extended to a maximum of 20 years. For each term the certificate holder can choose to participate 100% in any percentage increase in the S&P 500 Index up to a maximum return or choose partial participation in any increase in the S&P 500 Index plus a fixed rate of interest guaranteed in advance. If partial participation is selected, the total of equity linked return and guaranteed rate of interest cannot exceed the maximum return. Reserves for our stock market 95 Table of Contents certificates are included in customer deposits on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2011, we had $737 million in reserves related to stock market certificates. Equity Price Risk Stock Market Certificates As with the equity indexed annuities, the equity linked return to investors creates equity price risk exposure. We seek to minimize this exposure with purchased futures and call spreads that replicate what we must credit to client accounts. This risk continues to be fully hedged. Interest Rate Risk Stock Market Certificates Stock market certificates have some interest rate risk as changes in interest rates affect the fair value of the payout to be made to the certificate holder. This risk is not currently hedged. Foreign Currency Risk We have foreign currency risk through our net investment in foreign subsidiaries and our operations in foreign countries. We are primarily exposed to changes in British Pounds ("GBP") related to our net investment in Threadneedle, which was 450 million GBP at December 31, 2011. Our primary exposure related to operations in foreign countries is to the GBP and the Indian Rupee. We monitor the foreign exchange rates that we have exposure to and enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate risk when economically prudent. At December 31, 2011, the notional value of outstanding contracts and our remaining foreign currency risk related to operations in foreign countries were not material. Interest Rate Risk on External Debt The stated interest rate on the $2.0 billion of our senior unsecured notes is fixed and the stated interest rate on the $294 million of junior notes is fixed until June 1, 2016. In 2010, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to effectively convert the fixed interest rate on $1.4 billion of the senior unsecured notes to floating interest rates based on six month LIBOR. We hedged the debt in part to better align the interest expense on debt with the interest earned on cash equivalents held on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The net interest rate risk of these items is immaterial. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk within our investment portfolio, including our loan portfolio, and through our derivative and reinsurance activities. Credit risk relates to the uncertainty of an obligors continued ability to make timely payments in accordance with the contractual terms of the financial instrument or contract. We consider our total potential credit exposure to each counterparty and its affiliates to ensure compliance with pre established credit guidelines at the time we enter into a transaction which would potentially increase our credit risk. These guidelines and oversight of credit risk are managed through a comprehensive enterprise risk management program that includes members of senior management. We manage the risk of credit related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties by applying disciplined fundamental credit analysis and underwriting standards, prudently limiting exposures to lower quality, higher yielding investments, and diversifying exposures by issuer, industry, region and underlying investment type. We remain exposed to occasional adverse cyclical economic downturns during which default rates may be significantly higher than the long term historical average used in pricing. We manage our credit risk related to over the counter derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through the use of master netting arrangements that provide for a single net payment to be made by one counterparty to another at each due date and upon termination. Generally, our current credit exposure on over the counter derivative contracts is limited to a derivative counterpartys net positive fair value of derivative contracts after taking into consideration the existence of netting arrangements and any collateral received. This exposure is monitored and managed to an acceptable threshold level. Because exchange traded futures are effected through regulated exchanges and positions are marked to market and generally cash settled on a daily basis, we have minimal exposure to credit related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to such derivative instruments. We manage our credit risk related to reinsurance treaties by evaluating the financial condition of reinsurance counterparties prior to entering into new reinsurance treaties. In addition, we regularly evaluate their financial strength during the terms of the treaties. As of December 31, 2011, our largest reinsurance credit risk is related to a long term care coinsurance treaty with life insurance subsidiaries of Genworth Financial, Inc. See Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on reinsurance. 96  Table of Contents   
 
