FILE:FLR/FLR-8K-20050428162531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     
Check the appropriate box below if the
Form 8-K
filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.03(a). Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     The Board of Directors of Fluor Corporation unanimously approved by written consent an amendment to Section 3.02 of Article III of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Fluor Corporation. The amendment, which became effective as of April 27, 2005, changes the authorized number of directors to eleven. Prior to this amendment, the authorized number of directors was ten. The text of Section 3.02 of Article III of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Fluor Corporation, as amended, is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02(d). Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     The Board of Directors of Fluor Corporation unanimously approved by written consent the appointment of Dr. Peter S. Watson as a Class II director of Fluor Corporation, to fill the newly created directorship resulting from the increase in the authorized number of directors under the amendment to Section 3.02 of Article III of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Fluor Corporation approved by the Board of Directors on April 27, 2005. Dr. Watson has not been named to any Committee of the Board of Directors, but Fluor Corporation expects, as of the time of this filing, that Dr. Watson will be named a member of the Audit Committee and Governance Committee by the Board of Directors.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(c) Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 3.2
     "Section 3.02. . The authorized number of Directors of the Corporation shall be eleven and such authorized number shall not be changed except by a Bylaw or amendment thereof duly adopted by the stockholders in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation or by the Board amending this Section 3.02."
Number


