FILE:FLR/FLR-8K-20051103175922.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On November 3, 2005, Fluor Corporation announced its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release (the "") making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Earnings Release
     The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that section. Furthermore, this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
     Fluor Corporation includes backlog and new awards data in the Earnings Release. Backlog is a measure of the total dollar value of work to be performed on contracts awarded and in progress. Although backlog reflects business that is considered to be firm, cancellations or scope adjustments may occur. Backlog is adjusted to reflect any known project cancellations, deferrals and revised project scope and costs, both upward and downward. New awards is a measure of the total dollar value of work to be performed on contracts awarded in the period. Backlog and new awards measures are regularly reported in the construction industry.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(c) Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Fluor Reports Third Quarter Results;
Revenues, Earnings and Cash Up Sharply
ALISO VIEJO, Calif.,  November 3, 2005  Fluor Corporation (NYSE: FLR) today announced financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2005. The company reported net earnings of $131.2 million, or $1.51 per share, compared with net earnings of $47.3 million, or 57 cents per share in the third quarter of 2004. The earnings growth was due to continued solid operating results in Oil & Gas, Government and Global Services. In addition, the Caribbean hotel jury verdict that negatively impacted the second quarter by $65 million was overturned by the judge in the case, and a no-liability resolution was subsequently reached, which resulted in the reversal of $32.9 million of that provision this quarter. Finally, as previously announced, the longstanding claims on the Hamaca crude upgrader project in Venezuela were resolved, contributing $30.5 million in pre-tax earnings in the quarter. Both events had the added benefit of contributing to a substantial reduction in the effective tax rate for the quarter.
     Consolidated operating profit was $180.9 million, compared with $104.7 million in the third quarter last year. Revenues for the quarter increased 45 percent to $3.4 billion, including $294 million recognized as a result of the Hamaca settlement, compared with revenues of $2.4 billion a year ago.
     New project awards in the third quarter were $2.5 billion compared with $3.2 billion a year ago, demonstrating the quarterly lumpiness that can be caused by the timing of a single major project award. Shortly after the third quarter was closed, Fluor was awarded a $1.0 billion project to expand a major gas complex in Abu Dhabi, which will be booked in the fourth quarter. Backlog at quarter end grew 7 percent to $14.7 billion, compared with $13.7 billion a year ago, but was down sequentially from $15.7 billion in the second quarter.
 
     "I am very pleased with our solid operating results and that we have fully resolved both the Hamaca crude upgrader and Caribbean hotel issues this quarter, eliminating these major uncertainties," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Alan Boeckmann. "We closed the quarter with $1 billion of cash on the balance sheet, up over $300 million from last quarter, due to a very strong positive contribution from operations and the Hamaca settlement."
     Corporate G&A for the quarter was $25.1 million, including a pre-tax gain of $10.4 million from the sale of real estate, compared with $32.9 million a year ago which included a pre-tax gain of $5.5 million related to the disposal of a residual property interest. Fluor's financial condition was substantially strengthened during the quarter, with cash and securities rising to $1.0 billion, up from $689 million at the end of the second quarter. The debt-to-capital ratio at the end of the quarter was further reduced to 19 percent, with the full repayment of $100 million of outstanding commercial paper.
Outlook
     The outlook for the majority of Fluor's markets remains positive. Opportunities across all business segments are expected to continue to develop, with sizable prospects pending in the oil and gas, power, mining, transportation and government markets. With the excellent start on the fourth quarter, due to the award of the major gas complex in the Middle East, the company expects fourth quarter awards to be particularly strong.
     Fluor's earnings guidance for 2005 is being increased to a range of $2.40 to $2.60 per share, up materially from guidance provided last quarter and essentially on par with guidance originally issued a year ago.
     Looking ahead to 2006, ongoing strength in new awards combined with a strong backlog is expected to continue to drive growth in earnings. Considering the variability associated with the timing of major new project awards and the pace of project execution across the portfolio, the company's initial guidance for 2006 is a range of $2.80 to $3.10 per share.
Business Segments
     Fluor's Oil & Gas segment reported very strong operating profit, up 65 percent to $84.1 million, compared with $51.0 million in the third quarter last year. Revenues increased 45 percent to $1.4 billion, from $1.0 billion last year. Operating margin in the quarter was 5.8 percent, up from 5.1 percent a year ago. Continued strength in operations including upstream,
 
downstream, and chemicals were complemented by the Hamaca settlement. This settlement contributed revenues of $294 million and operating profit of $30.5 million in the third quarter, reimbursing Fluor for its incurred costs and for its cost of capital in funding those costs.
     Performance in the Industrial & Infrastructure business segment was materially improved by the Caribbean hotel project resolution and resulting $32.9 million reversal in the third quarter. The segment reported operating profit of $43.5 million, and operating margin of 5.1 percent, compared with $18.8 million and 3.6 percent respectively from a year ago. Excluding the benefit of the $32.9 million reversal, operating profits were significantly lower than last year primarily due to lower profits on an international infrastructure project. Revenues were up sharply to $857 million, an increase of 64 percent from $521 million last year, reflecting substantial increases in the level of work performed following very strong new awards in 2004. Revenues included a higher level of material and equipment costs, which negatively impacted margins in the quarter.
     Fluor's Government segment reported quarterly operating profit of $20.9 million, up 14 percent from $18.3 million a year ago. Revenues increased 23 percent to $651 million compared with $530 million last year, mainly due to a higher level of Iraq reconstruction work. Operating margin was 3.2 percent, down modestly from 3.5 percent in the third quarter of 2004.
     Operating profit for Fluor's Global Services segment was $26.5 million, about level with $26.7 million a year ago. Revenues increased 32 percent to $368 million from $280 million in the third quarter last year, reflecting growth in all sectors of the business. Operating margin improved sequentially to 7.2 percent from 6.1 percent last quarter, but declined from 9.6 percent a year ago. The decline in margins from a year ago is mainly the result of a shift in the mix of business among the segment's various service lines.
     Fluor's Power segment reported quarterly operating profit of $5.9 million, versus a loss of $10.1 million a year ago which was driven by costs associated with the startup and commissioning of a waste-coal power plant. Revenues increased three-fold to $95 million from $32 million a year ago. Operating margin was 6.2 percent in the third quarter.
Results for the Nine Months
     Net earnings for the first nine months of 2005 were $162.2 million, or $1.88 per share, an increase of 17 percent from $138.8 million, or $1.68 per share in 2004. Results for the first nine months of 2005 included a net pre-tax charge of $32.1 million from the Caribbean hotel project
 
resolution and pre-tax earnings of $30.5 million from the Hamaca settlement. Revenues for the 2005 nine-month period grew 39% to $9.2 billion, compared with $6.6 billion in 2004.
Third Quarter Conference Call Information
     Fluor will host a conference call at 7 a.m. Pacific Time on Friday, November 4, which will be webcast live on the Internet and can be accessed by logging onto . The webcast will be archived for 30 days following the call.
http://investor.fluor.com
About Fluor Corporation
     Fluor Corporation (NYSE: FLR) provides services on a global basis in the fields of engineering, procurement, construction, operations, maintenance and project management. Headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California, Fluor is a FORTUNE 500 company with revenues of $9.4 billion in 2004. For more information, visit www.fluor.com.
Forward-Looking Statements: This release contains forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements relating to the expected performance of the Company's business and growth in the markets and industries that the Company serves, the Company's future backlog, revenue and earnings growth opportunities, the expansion of markets which the Company serves, business prospects in markets which the Company serves, ongoing spending by clients, and ongoing investment and spending in markets and industries that the company serves. The forward-looking statements are based on current management expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially as a result of several factors, including, among other things: failure to achieve projected backlog, revenue and/or earnings levels; customer cancellations of, or scope adjustments to, existing contracts; difficulties or delays incurred in the execution of contracts; customer delays or defaults in making payments; decreased capital investment or expenditures, or a failure to make anticipated increased capital investment or expenditures, by the Company's clients including our oil, gas, power, transportation, industrial, infrastructure and government clients; the Company's failure to receive anticipated new contract awards; increased liability risks in any of the markets the Company serves; the potential impact of certain tax matters; the outcome of events in dispute
 
with clients and others; the Company's inability to successfully convert front-end engineering services into future project awards; the cyclical nature of many of the markets the Company serves; and, changes in global business, economic, political and social conditions. Caution must be exercised in relying on these and other forward-looking statements. Due to known and unknown risks, the Company's results may differ materially from its expectations and projections.
Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in press releases as well as the Company's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Item 1. Business  Company Risk Factors" in the Company's Form 10-K filed on March 4, 2005. Such filings are available either publicly or upon request from Fluor's Investor Relations Department: (949) 349-3815. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update its forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events.
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL REVIEW ($ in millions)
 
SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ITEMS ( $in millions, except per share amounts)
SELECTED CASH FLOW ITEMS ( $in millions)
 
NEW AWARDS ($ in millions)
BACKLOG TRENDS ($ in millions)
     NM  Not meaningful


