FILE:FLR/FLR-8K-20070615163316.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
             
On June 15, 2007, the Board of Directors of Fluor Corporation elected Ilesanmi Adesida and Peter K. Barker to the Board of Directors, effective as of June 15, 2007, to fill the newly created directorships resulting from the increase in the authorized number of directors under the amendment to Section 3.02 of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Fluor Corporation.
Mr. Ilesanmi Adesida was elected as a Class III director, and Mr. Peter K. Barker was elected as a Class I director.  Mr. Adesida has been appointed as a member of the Governance and Organization and Compensation Committees of the Board of Directors, and Mr. Barker has been appointed as a member of the Audit and Organization and Compensation Committees of the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors has affirmatively determined that Mr. Adesida and Mr. Barker are independent of Fluor Corporation and its management under New York Stock Exchange listing standards and the standards set forth in the Fluor Corporation .
Corporate Governance Guidelines
Mr. Adesida and Mr. Barker will receive the standard compensation amounts payable to non-employee directors of the Company, as described in the definitive proxy statement filed with the Commission on March 7, 2007, although the annual cash retainer shall be pro rated so that Mr. Adesida and Mr. Barker receive quarterly payments for only those quarters in which they attend any Board meeting.   Such compensation includes an initial grant of 1,500 restricted shares and 1,000 restricted units under the Company's 2000 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors.  Restricted units are payable in cash to assist in satisfying related income tax liabilities.  Restrictions lapse and units become immediately earned and payable with respect to 20% of the award on the date of grant and then subsequently vest at a rate of 20% per year on each anniversary of that date.
A copy of Fluor Corporation's June 15, 2007 press release announcing the election of the two new directors is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 5.03(a).
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
        
On June 15, 2007, the Board of Directors of Fluor Corporation amended Section 3.02 of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Fluor Corporation, effective as of June 15, 2007, to increase the authorized number of directors from ten to twelve. This amendment was adopted in connection with the Board's election of two new directors, as disclosed in Item 5.02 above.  The Amended and Restated Bylaws are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and the text thereof is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
          
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
.  The registered office of FLUOR CORPORATION (hereinafter called the "Corporation") in the State of Delaware shall be at 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, 19808 and the name of the registered agent at that address shall be Corporation Service Company.
Section 1.01
          
Registered Office
.  The principal office for the transaction of the business of the Corporation shall be at 6700 Las Colinas Boulevard, Irving, Texas 75039.  The Board of Directors (hereinafter called the "Board") is hereby granted full power and authority to change said principal office from one location to another.
Section 1.02
          
Principal Office
.  The Corporation may also have an office or offices at such other place or places, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board may from time to time determine or as the business of the Corporation may require.
Section 1.03
          
Other Offices
.  Annual meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other proper business as may come before such meetings may be held at such time, date and place as the Board shall determine by resolution.
Section 2.01
          
Annual Meetings
.  Special meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Board or by a committee of the Board which has been duly created by the Board and whose powers and authority, as provided in a resolution of the Board or in the Bylaws of the Corporation, include the power to call such meetings, but such special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons; provided, however, that if and to the extent that any special meeting of stockholders may be called by any other person or persons specified in any provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or any amendment thereto or any certificate filed under Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (or its successor statute as in effect from time to time hereafter), then
Section 2.02
          
Special Meetings
1
such special meeting may also be called by the person or persons, in the manner, at the times and for the purposes so specified.
.  All meetings of the stockholders shall be held at such places, within or without the State of Delaware, as may from time to time be designated by the person or persons calling the respective meeting and specified in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof.
Section 2.03
          
Place of Meetings
.
Section 2.04
          
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations
.  (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record of the Corporation at the time the notice provided for in this Section 2.04 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 5.
(A)
         
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of this Section 2.04, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and any such proposed business other than the nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action.  To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty days before or more than seventy days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation).  In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.  Such stockholder's notice shall set forth: (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (and such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material
(2)
          
2
interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (iv) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination.  The foregoing notice requirements shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of his or her intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting in compliance with Rule 14a-8 (or any successor thereof) promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting.  The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.
Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this Section 2.04 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships at least one hundred days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 2.04 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for the additional directorships, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(3)
          
.  Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting.  Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this Section 2.04 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and upon such election and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.04.  In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (A)(2) of this Section 2.04 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the
(B)
          
Special Meetings of Stockholders
3
close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting.  In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
.  (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.04 shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.04.  Except as otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (a) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.04 (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made solicited (or is part of a group which solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with such stockholder's representation as required by clause (A)(2)(c)(iv) of this Section 2.04) and (b) if any proposed nomination or business was not made or proposed in compliance with this Section 2.04, to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation.
(C)
          
General
For purposes of this Section 2.04, "public announcement" shall include disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(2)
          
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.04, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2.04.  Nothing in this Section 2.04 shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the certificate of incorporation.
(3)
          
.  Except as otherwise required by law, the certificate of incorporation or the Bylaws, notice of each meeting of the stockholders, whether annual or special, shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting by delivering a notice thereof to him or her personally, or by depositing such notice in the United States mail, in a postage prepaid
Section 2.05
          
Notice of Meetings
4
envelope, directed to him or her at his or her post office address furnished by him or her to the Secretary of the Corporation for such purpose or, if he or she shall not have furnished to the Secretary his or her address for such purposes or if otherwise consented to by suchstockholder then at his or her post office address last known to the Secretary, or by transmitting a notice thereof to him or her at such address by means of electronic transmission.  Except as otherwise expressly required by law, no publication of any notice of a meeting of the stockholders shall be required.  Every notice of a meeting of the stockholders shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, shall also state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.  Notice of any meeting of stockholders shall not be required to be given to any stockholder who shall have waived such notice and such notice shall be deemed waived by any stockholder who shall attend such meeting in person or by proxy, except a stockholder who shall attend such meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.  Except as otherwise expressly required by law, notice of any adjourned meeting of the stockholders need not be given if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken.
,
.  Except in the case of any meeting for the election of directors summarily ordered as provided by law, the holders of record of a majority of the voting power of the shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to be voted thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation or any adjournment thereof.  In the absence of a quorum at any meeting or any adjournment thereof, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the stockholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereat or, in the absence therefrom of all the stockholders, any officer entitled to preside at, or to act as secretary of, such meeting may adjourn such meeting from time to time.  At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Section 2.06
          
Quorum
.
Section 2.07
          
Voting
Except as otherwise provided by or pursuant to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by such stockholder which has voting power upon the matter in question.  Each stockholder shall, at each meeting of the stockholders, be entitled to vote in person or by proxy each share or fractional share of the stock of the Corporation having voting rights on the matter in question and which shall have been held by him or her and registered in his or her name on the books of the Corporation:
(a)
          
on the date fixed pursuant to Section 6.05 of the Bylaws as the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting, or
(i)
           
if no such record date shall have been so fixed, then (a) at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of the meeting shall be given or (b) if notice of the meeting shall be waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which meeting shall be held.
(ii)
          
5
Shares of its own stock belonging to the corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not limit the right of the corporation or any subsidiary of the corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a fiduciary capacity.  Persons holding stock of the Corporation in a fiduciary capacity shall be entitled to vote such stock. Persons whose stock is pledged shall be entitled to vote, unless in the transfer by the pledgor on the books of the Corporation such person has expressly empowered the pledgee to vote thereon, in which case only the pledgee, or such person's proxy, may represent such stock and vote thereon.  Stock having voting power standing of record in the names of two or more persons, whether fiduciaries, members of a partnership, joint tenants, tenants in common, tenants by the entirety or otherwise, or if two or more persons have the same fiduciary relationship respecting the same shares, shall be voted in accordance with the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
(b)
          
Any such voting rights may be exercised by the stockholder entitled thereto in person or by his or her proxy or by his or her attorney thereunto authorized and delivered to the secretary of the meeting; provided, however, that no proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date unless said proxy shall provide for a longer period.  The attendance at any meeting by a stockholder who may theretofore have given a proxy shall not have the effect of revoking the same unless he or she shall in writing so notify the secretary of the meeting prior to the voting of the proxy.  At all meetings of stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast; except that, notwithstanding the foregoing, directors (not exceeding the authorized number of directors as fixed by the Board in accordance with the certificate of incorporation) shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast if as of the record date for such meeting the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected.  For purposes of this Section 2.07(c), a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director nominee must exceed the number of shares voted "against" that director nominee.  If, for any cause, the Board shall not have been elected at an annual meeting, they may be elected thereafter at a special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose in the manner provided in these Bylaws.  All other matters shall, unless otherwise provided by the certificate of incorporation, these by-laws, the rules or regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the corporation, or applicable law or pursuant to any regulation applicable to the corporation or its securities, be decided by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the shares of stock of the corporation which are present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereon.  The vote at any meeting of the stockholders on any question need not be by ballot, unless so directed by the chairman of the meeting.  On a vote by ballot each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by his or her proxy, if there be such proxy, and it shall state the number of shares voted.
(c)
          
.  The Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.  Such list shall be open to
Section 2.08
          
List of Stockholders
6
the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, as required by applicable law.  Except as otherwise provided by law, the stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list of stockholders or the books of the corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
.  The corporation may, and shall if required by law, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors of election, who may be employees of the corporation, to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof and to make a written report thereof.  The corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act.  In the event that no inspector so appointed or designated is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting.  Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability.  The inspector or inspectors so appointed or designated shall (i) ascertain the number of shares of capital stock of the corporation outstanding and the voting power of each such share, (ii) determine the shares of capital stock of the corporation represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares of capital stock of the corporation represented at the meeting and such inspectors' count of all votes and ballots. Such certification and report shall specify such other information as may be required by law.  In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots cast at any meeting of stockholders of the corporation, the inspectors may consider such information as is permitted by applicable law.  No person who is a candidate for an office at an election may serve as an inspector at such election
Section 2.09
          
Inspectors of Election
.  The property, business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by the Board.
Section 3.01
          
General Powers
. The authorized number of Directors of the Corporation shall be twelve and such authorized number shall not be changed except by a Bylaw or amendment thereof duly adopted by the stockholders in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation or by the Board amending this Section 3.02.
Section 3.02
          
Number
.  The directors shall be elected by the stockholders of the Corporation in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07(c).  The election of directors is subject to any provisions contained in the Certificate of Incorporation relating thereto.
Section 3.03
          
Election of Directors
.  The Chairman of the Board and the President and any former Chairman of the Board and any former President, if serving as a director of the Corporation at age 72, shall retire from the Board at the end of the calendar year in which his or her 72nd birthday occurs.  Each other employee or former employee of the Corporation or its
Section 3.04
          
Mandatory Retirement
7
subsidiaries serving as a director of the Corporation at age 65 shall retire from the Board at the end of the calendar year in which his or her 65th birthday occurs unless the Chairman of the Board recommends and the Board approves his or her continued service as a non-employee director.  Each other employee of the Corporation or its subsidiaries under age 65 serving as a director of the Corporation who elects to take early retirement or who for any other reason is no longer an officer of the Corporation or its subsidiaries shall retire from the Board as of the date he or she ceases to be an officer unless the Chairman of the Board recommends and the Board approves his or her continued directorship.  Each non-employee director of the Corporation serving at age 72 shall retire from the Board at the end of the calendar year in which his or her 72nd birthday occurs.  For purposes of this Section, "end of the calendar year" shall include the period ending with the seventh day of January next following.
.  Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board or to the Secretary of the Corporation.  Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or, if the time be not specified, it shall take effect immediately upon its receipt; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Section 3.05
          
Resignations
.  Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, any vacancy in the Board, whether because of death, resignation, disqualification, an increase in the number of directors, or any other cause, shall be filled solely by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board.  Any director so chosen shall hold office until the next election of the class for which such director shall have been chosen and until such director's successor shall be elected and qualified.  No decrease in the number of directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Section 3.06
          
Vacancies
.  The Board may hold any of its meetings at such place or places within or without the State of Delaware and at such times as the Board may from time to time determine.  Directors may participate in any regular or special meeting of the Board by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment pursuant to which all persons participating in the meeting of the Board can hear each other, and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Section 3.07
          
Place of Meeting, etc
.  The Board shall meet as soon as practicable after each annual election of directors and notice of such first meeting shall not be required.
Section 3.08
          
First Meeting
.  Regular meetings of the Board may be held at such times as the Board shall from time to time by resolution determine.  If any day fixed for a meeting shall be a legal holiday at the place where the meeting is to be held, then the meeting shall be held at the same hour and place on the next succeeding business day not a legal holiday.  Except as provided by law, notice of regular meetings need not be given.
Section 3.09
          
Regular Meetings
.  Special meetings of the Board may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board or the President or by any two directors, to be held at the principal office of the Corporation, or at such other place or places, within or without the State of
Section 3.10
          
Special Meetings
8
Delaware, as the person or persons calling the meeting may designate.  Notice of all special meetings of the Board shall be given to each director by two days' service of the same by telegram, by letter, or personally.  Such notice may be waived by any director and any meeting shall be a legal meeting without notice having been given if all the directors shall be present thereat or if those not present shall, either before or after the meeting, sign a written waiver of notice of, or a consent to, such meeting or shall after the meeting sign the approval of the minutes thereof.  All such waivers, consents or approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or be made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
.  Except as otherwise provided in the Bylaws or by law, the presence of a majority of the whole Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board, and all matters shall be decided at any such meeting, a quorum being present, by the affirmative votes of a majority of the directors present.  In the absence of a quorum, a majority of directors present at any meeting may adjourn the same from time to time until a quorum shall be present.  Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given.  The directors shall act only as a Board, and the individual directors shall have no power as such.
Section 3.11
          
Quorum and Manner of Acting
.  Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic means, and such consents are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or such committee.
Section 3.12
          
Action by Consent
.  No stated salary need be paid directors, as such, for their services, but, by resolution of the Board, a fixed sum and expenses of attendance, if any, may be allowed for attendance at each regular or special meeting of the Board or an annual directors' fee may be paid; provided that nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefore.  Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.
Section 3.13
          
Compensation
.  The Board may, by resolution passed by the Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation.  Former employees of the Corporation or its subsidiaries who are no longer officers of the Corporation or its subsidiaries, if serving as a director of the Corporation, shall not be eligible to serve as a member of any committee of the Board.  Except as otherwise provided in the Board resolution designating a committee, the presence of a majority of the authorized number of members of such committee shall be required to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of such committee.  Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have any power or authority in reference to amending the Certificate of Incorporation, adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the
Section 3.14
          
Committees
9
stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of the dissolution, or amending the Bylaws of the Corporation; and unless the resolution of the Board expressly so provides, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock.  Any such committee shall keep written minutes of its meetings and report the same to the Board at the next regular meeting of the Board.
.  The Board shall have a Chairman of the Board and may, at the discretion of the Board, have a Vice Chairman and other officers.  The Chairman of the Board and the Vice Chairman shall be appointed from time to time by the Board, unless such positions are elected offices of the Corporation, currently filled, and shall have such powers and duties as shall be designated by the Board.
Section 3.15
          
Officers of the Board
.  The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a Secretary, a Treasurer and such other officers as may be appointed by the Board as the business of the Corporation may require.  Officers shall have such powers and duties as are permitted or required by law or as may be specified by or in accordance with resolutions of the Board.  Any number of offices may be held by the same person.  Unless the Board shall otherwise determine, the Chairman of the Board shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.  In the absence of any contrary determination by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the power and authority of the Board, have general supervision, direction and control of the officers, employees, business and affairs of the Corporation.
Section 4.01
          
Officers
.  The officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board.  The Board may at any time and from time to time elect such additional officers as the business of the Corporation may require.  Each officer shall hold his or her office until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal.
Section 4.02
          
Election and Term
.  Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by a majority of the directors at the time in office, at any regular or special meeting of the Board.  Any officer may resign at any time by giving notice to the Board.  Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified in such notice or, in the absence of such specification, at the date of the receipt by the Board of such notice.  Unless otherwise specified in such notice, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Section 4.03
          
Removal and Resignation
.  Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by death, resignation, removal or otherwise, shall be filled in the manner prescribed in these Bylaws for the regular appointment to such office.
Section 4.04
          
Vacancies
10
.  The Board, except as in the Bylaws otherwise provided, may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances; and unless so authorized by the Board or by the Bylaws, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the Corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or in any amount.
Section 5.01
          
Execution of Contracts
.  All checks, drafts or other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidence of indebtedness, issued in the name of or payable to the Corporation, shall be signed or endorsed by such person or persons and in such manner as, from time to time, shall be determined by resolution of the Board.  Each such person shall give such bond, if any, as the Board may require.
Section 5.02
          
Checks, Drafts, etc
.  All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the Board may select, or as may be selected by any officer or officers, assistant or assistants, agent or agents, or attorney or attorneys of the Corporation to whom such power shall have been delegated by the Board.  For the purpose of deposit and for the purpose of collection for the account of the Corporation, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Treasurer (or any other officer or officers, assistant or assistants, agent or agents, or attorney or attorneys of the Corporation who shall from time to time be determined by the Board) may endorse, assign and deliver checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money which are payable to the order of the Corporation.
Section 5.03
          
Deposit
.  The Board may from time to time authorize the opening and keeping of general and special bank accounts with such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the Board may select or as may be selected by any officer or officers, assistant or assistants, agent or agents, or attorney or attorneys of the Corporation to whom such power shall have been delegated by the Board.  The Board may make such special rules and regulations with respect to such bank accounts, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Bylaws, as it may deem expedient.
Section 5.04
          
General and Special Bank Accounts
.  The shares of stock of the Corporation may be issued in book-entry form or evidenced by certificates.  However, every owner of stock of the Corporation shall be entitled upon request to have a certificate or certificates, to be in such form as the Board shall prescribe, certifying the number and class of shares of the stock of the Corporation owned by him or her. To the extent that shares of stock are represented by
Section 6.01
          
Certificates for Stock
11
certificates, the certificates representing shares of such stock shall be numbered in the order in which they shall be issued and shall be signed in the name of the Corporation by the President and by the Secretary.  Any or all of the signatures on the certificates may be a facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon any such certificate shall thereafter have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, such certificate may nevertheless be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as though the person who signed such certificate, or whose facsimile signature shall have been placed thereupon, were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.  A record shall be kept of the respective names of the persons, firms or corporations owning the stock represented by such certificates or held in book-entry form, the number and class of shares represented by such certificates or held in book-entry form, respectively, and the respective dates thereof, and in case of cancellation the respective dates of cancellation.  Every certificate surrendered to the Corporation for exchange or transfer shall be cancelled, and no new certificate or certificates shall be issued (or book entry made) in exchange for any existing certificate until such existing certificate shall have been so cancelled, except in cases provided for in Section 6.04 of the Bylaws.
.  Transfers of shares of stock of the Corporation shall be made only on the books of the Corporation by the registered holder thereof, or by his or her attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary, or with a transfer clerk or a transfer agent appointed as provided in Section 6.03 of the Bylaws, and if such shares are represented by a certificate, upon surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed and the payment of all taxes thereon.  The person in whose name shares of stock stand on the books of the Corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the Corporation.  Whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, such fact shall be stated expressly in the entry of transfer if, when the certificate or certificates shall be presented to the Corporation for transfer, both the transferor and the transferee request the Corporation to do so.
Section 6.02
          
Transfers of Stock
.  The Board may make such rules and regulations as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with the Bylaws, concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificated or uncertificated shares of the stock of the Corporation.  It may appoint, or authorize any officer or officers to appoint, one or more transfer clerks or one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars, and may require all certificates for stock to bear the signature or signatures of any of them.
Section 6.03
          
Regulations
.  In any case of loss, theft, destruction, or mutilation of any certificate of stock, another may be issued in its place upon proof of such loss, theft, destruction, or mutilation and upon the giving of a bond of indemnity to the Corporation in such form and in such sum as the Board may direct; provided, however, that a new certificate may be issued without requiring any bond when, in the judgment of the Board, it is proper so to do.
Section 6.04
          
Lost, Stolen, Destroyed, And Mutilated Certificates
.  In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other
Section 6.05
          
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record
12
distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action.  If, in any case involving the determination of stockholders for any purpose other than notice of or voting at a meeting of stockholders, the Board shall not fix such a record date, the record date for determining stockholders for such purpose shall be the close of business on the day on which the Board shall adopt the resolution relating thereto.  A determination of stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of such meeting; provided, however, that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
.  The Board shall provide a corporate seal, which shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the name of the Corporation and words and figures showing that the Corporation was incorporated in the State of Delaware and the year of incorporation.
Section 7.01
          
Seal
.  Whenever notice is required to be given by the Bylaws or the Certificate of Incorporation or by law, the person entitled to said notice may waive such notice in writing, either before or after the time stated therein, and such waiver shall be deemed equivalent to notice.
Section 7.02
          
Waiver of Notices
.  The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on the 31st day of December of each year.
Section 7.03
          
Fiscal Year
.  The Bylaws, or any of them, may be rescinded, altered, amended or repealed, and new Bylaws may be made, (i) by the Board, by vote of a majority of the number of directors then in office as directors, acting at any meeting of the Board, or (ii) by the vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of voting stock of the Corporation, at any annual meeting of stockholders, without previous notice, or at any special meeting of stockholders, provided that notice of such proposed amendment, modification, repeal or adoption is given in the notice of special meeting.  Any Bylaws made or altered by the stockholders may be altered or repealed by the Board or may be altered or repealed by the stockholders.
Section 7.04
          
Amendments
13

Exhibit 99.1
 
IRVING, Texas  June 15, 2007  Fluor Corporation (NYSE: FLR) announced today the election of Ilesanmi Adesida and Peter Barker to its Board of Directors. The additions mark the increase of the Fluor Board from 10 to 12 directors, 11 of whom are independent directors.
Adesida is dean of the College of Engineering at the University of Illinois in Champaign-Urbana, Ill., and Barker is retired from Goldman Sachs, where he served as the partner heading up investment banking activities on the West Coast.
"Ilesanmi and Peter are terrific additions to our Board of Directors, bringing vast experience from complex worlds ranging from science and technology to banking and finance," said Alan L. Boeckmann, Fluor's chairman and chief executive officer. "They will add greatly to our Board's deliberations, and we welcome their insight and counsel."
Adesida has Ph.D., M.S. and B.S. degrees from the University of California, Berkeley, Calif. In the last decade, he has held posts as the Donald Biggar Willet Professor of Engineering, director of the Center for Nanoscale Science and Technology, director of the Micro and Nanotechnology Laboratory, professor of materials science and engineering, professor of electrical and computer engineering, professor of the Beckman Institute of Advanced Science and Technology and research professor of the Coordinated Science Laboratory, all at the University of Illinois. He has also held teaching posts at Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi, Nigeria, and Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. In 2006, he was elected as a member of the National Academy of Engineering.
As a partner at Goldman Sachs, Barker supervised the activities of the Los Angeles and San Francisco offices in the banking area.  Barker was also the partner in charge of the Los Angeles office. In addition, Barker worked directly with a variety of clients on debt and equity financings,
Page
2
of 2
 
 
acquisitions, divestitures, recapitalizations, spin-offs, IPOS and general investment banking activities.  During his Goldman Sachs' tenure, he held positions in New York and London. Barker attended Colgate University, Hamilton, N.Y., and Claremont McKenna College, Claremont, Calif., and he has an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago, Graduate School of Business, Chicago.
Barker serves as a board member of Avery Dennison Corporation (NYSE: AVY) and GSC Investment Corp. (NYSE: GNV).  He is also a board member of a variety of philanthropic organizations, including W.M Keck Foundation; Fletcher Jones Foundation; Claremont McKenna College; and the Huntington Library.
Fluor Corporation (NYSE: FLR) provides services on a global basis in the fields of engineering, procurement, construction, operations, maintenance and project management. Headquartered in Irving, Texas, Fluor is a FORTUNE 500 company with revenues of $14.1 billion in 2006. For more information, visit .
www.fluor.com


