FILE:FLR/FLR-8K-20081106161000.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On October 31, 2008, Fluor Corporation (the "") adopted a form of indemnification agreement to be entered into with each of its directors and executive officers, in order to provide consistent indemnification agreements for all directors and executive officers.  The agreement confirms the obligations of the Company to indemnify the indemnified parties to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law.  The agreement also provides that the Company will advance, if requested by an indemnified person, any and all expenses incurred in connection with a proceeding, subject to reimbursement by the indemnified person should a final judicial determination be made that indemnification is not available under applicable law.  The Company further agrees that its obligations under the agreement continue after the indemnified party is no longer serving the Company with respect to claims based on the indemnified party's service at the Company.
Company
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 6, 2008, Fluor Corporation announced its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.  A copy of the press release (the "") making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Earnings Release
 
The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the Earnings Release, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that section.  Furthermore, the information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the Earnings Release, shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Fluor Corporation includes backlog and new awards data in the Earnings Release.  Backlog is a measure of the total dollar value of work to be performed on contracts awarded and in progress.  Although backlog reflects business that is considered to be firm, cancellations or scope adjustments may occur.  Backlog is adjusted to reflect any known project cancellations, deferrals and revised project scope and costs, both upward and downward.  New awards is a measure of the total dollar value of work to be performed on contracts awarded in the period.  Backlog and new awards measures are regularly reported in the construction industry.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
                 
BACKLOG UP 31 PERCENT TO $36.5 BILLION
                 
2008 EPS GUIDANCE NARROWED TO RANGE OF $3.70 - $3.80
                 
2009 EPS GUIDANCE ISSUED AT RANGE OF $3.90 - $4.20 PER SHARE
 
IRVING, TEXAS  November 6, 2008  Fluor Corporation (NYSE: FLR) announced financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2008.  Revenue rose by 38 percent to $5.7 billion, compared with $4.1 billion in the third quarter of 2007.  Net earnings for the third quarter were $183 million, an increase of 95 percent over $94 million a year ago.  Earnings per share doubled to $1.01 per diluted share, compared with $0.51 per diluted share for the same period last year.  Operating profit for the quarter increased 71 percent to $324 million, compared with $190 million a year ago, reflecting solid profit contributions from all business segments.  Operating margins increased to 5.7 percent compared with 4.6 percent in the third quarter of 2007.
 
New project awards for the third quarter were a record $8.8 billion, including a $3.4 billion award for the BP Whiting Modernization Project in the U.S., a large gas processing project in Russia and a $1.3 billion mining project in Latin America.  Consolidated backlog at the end of the third quarter rose to a new company record of $36.5 billion, which is a $3.5 billion sequential increase over last quarter and a 31 percent increase from the same period a year ago.
Corporate G&A expense for the quarter was $45 million, level with $45 million reported in the third quarter of 2007.  Cash and marketable securities at quarter end were $2.2 billion, up from $1.6 billion a year ago.
 
"Fluor's focus on major, long-term capital projects with well-funded clients continues to generate significant growth and opportunity for the company," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Alan Boeckmann. "Although the current economic environment has created uncertainty on a number of fronts, we are optimistic that our substantial backlog and industrial and geographic diversification will allow Fluor to continue to grow in 2009."
 
Outlook
 
Based on strong performance to date and record third quarter new award levels, the company has narrowed its 2008 earnings guidance to a range of $3.70 to $3.80 per share.  For 2009, the company acknowledges the possibility that a prolonged economic downturn could moderate the demand for large capital expansion programs globally.  While the potential exists for near-term decline in demand in certain of our markets, based on our current prospect list and the substantial earnings power of the existing $36.5 billion backlog, we are establishing initial 2009 earnings guidance in the range of $3.90 to $4.20 per share.
Business Segments
 
Fluor's Oil & Gas segment reported third quarter revenue of $3.3 billion, up 52 percent from the third quarter of 2007.  Operating profit rose by 84 percent to $206 million.  This strong performance resulted from significant growth in the level of oil, gas and petrochemical work globally.  New awards in the third quarter totaled $5.1 billion, including a $3.4 billion award for a refinery modernization project at BP's Whiting, Indiana complex and a large gas processing expansion project for Sibur Group in Russia.  Ending backlog for Oil & Gas at September 30, 2008 rose to $22.8 billion, up 39 percent from $16.4 billion a year ago and up $1.9 billion sequentially.
 
Fluor's Industrial & Infrastructure segment reported revenue of $879 million in the third quarter, up 19 percent from last year.  Operating profit was $28 million, compared with $27 million a year ago.  Strong profit contributions from the Mining & Metals business line were partially offset by a $16 million charge relating to the London Connect project in the United Kingdom.  New awards in the quarter were $2.2 billion, including a $1.3 billion award for a large gold and copper processing project in Latin America and a $420 million contract for a solar panel manufacturing complex for Renewable Energy Corporation in Singapore.  Ending backlog rose to $8.5 billion, up 63 percent from $5.2 billion a year ago and up 19 percent sequentially.
 
Revenue for the Government segment was $369 million for the third quarter, compared with $337 million a year ago.  Operating profit for the quarter was $18 million, compared to a loss of $2 million for the third quarter of 2007 which included a $21 million charge relating to the Bagram Air Base project in Afghanistan.  Third quarter new awards totaled $922 million, including approximately $600 million for transitional work and the first full year of operations at
the Department of Energy's Savannah River site.  Ending backlog was $886 million, compared with $839 million a year ago.
 
The Global Services segment reported revenue of $593 million, up 9 percent from $542 million in the third quarter of last year.  Operating profit was $49 million compared with $48 million a year ago.  Current quarter results were adversely impacted by delays in refinery turnarounds and hurricanes along the Gulf Coast.  New awards were $405 million, bringing backlog to $2.7 billion at the end of the third quarter.
 
Fluor's Power segment reported revenue of $531 million, up 64 percent from $324 million in the third quarter of 2007.  Operating profit in the third quarter increased to $24 million, which compares with $6 million a year ago.  Results for the quarter reflect significant progress on projects, including two coal-fired power generation units in Texas.  The Power segment booked new awards of $226 million in the third quarter, bringing ending backlog to $1.6 billion which compares with $2.8 billion in the same period of 2007.
 
Results for the Nine Months
 
Net earnings for the first nine months of 2008 increased 94 percent to $530 million, including a pre-tax gain of $79 million from the sale of a joint venture interest in a wind power project, up from $274 million for the first nine months of 2007.  Earnings per diluted share for the nine months were $2.89, compared with $1.51 per diluted share for the same period last year.  Revenue rose 36 percent to $16.3 billion, compared with $12.0 billion in the first nine months of last year.
Third Quarter Call
 
Fluor will host a conference call at 5:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on Thursday, November 6, which will be webcast live on the internet, along with a supplemental slide presentation, and can be accessed by logging onto and clicking on the "webcast" link for this event.
http://investor.fluor.com
 
About Fluor Corporation
 
Fluor Corporation (NYSE: FLR) provides services on a global basis in the fields of engineering, procurement, construction, operations, maintenance and project management.  Headquartered in Irving, Texas, Fluor is a FORTUNE 500 company with revenues of $16.7 billion in 2007.  For more information, visit .
www.fluor.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
: This release contains forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements relating to future backlog, revenue and earnings, expected performance of the Company's business and the expansion of the markets which the Company serves. The forward-looking statements are based on current management expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially as a result of a number of factors, including, among other things: the current worldwide financial crisis, which may cause or accelerate a number of the other factors listed below; customer cancellations of, or scope adjustments to, existing contracts that may be terminated at any time; decreased capital investment or expenditures, or a failure to make anticipated increased capital investment or expenditures, by the Company's customers; the availability of credit and restrictions imposed by credit facilities, both for the Company and our customers; customer delays or defaults in making payments; the cyclical nature of many of the markets the Company serves and vulnerability to downturns such as the current worldwide economic downturn; the Company's failure to receive anticipated new contract awards;  failure to meet timely completion or performance standards that could result in higher costs, reduced profits or, in some cases, losses on projects; competition in the industry; failure to obtain favorable results in existing or future litigation or dispute resolution proceedings; t
he potential impact of certain tax matters including, but not limited to, those from foreign operations and any audits by tax authorities;
changes in global business, economic, political and social conditions; civil unrest, security issues, labor conditions or other unforeseeable events in the countries in which we do business;  the impact of environmental, health, safety, anti-bribery, international trade or other laws and regulations; and possible limitations on letter of credit or bonding capacity. Caution must be exercised in relying on these and other forward-looking statements. Due to known and unknown risks, the Company's results may differ materially from its expectations and projections.
 
Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in press releases as well as the Company's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Item 1A.Risk Factors" in the Company's Form 10-K filed on February 29, 2008 as well
 
 
as in the Company's Form 10-Q filed on November 6, 2008. Such filings are available either publicly or upon request from Fluor's Investor Relations Department: (469) 398-7220. Except as otherwise required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update its forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events.
 
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL REVIEW
 
($ in millions)
 
 
SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ITEMS
 
($ in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
NEW AWARDS
($ in millions)
 
 
BACKLOG TRENDS
($ in millions)
 
 


