FILE:FLR/FLR-8K-20090225163525.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 25, 2009, Fluor Corporation announced its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2008.  A copy of the press release (the "") making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Earnings Release
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that section.  Furthermore, this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Fluor Corporation includes backlog and new awards data in the Earnings Release.  Backlog is a measure of the total dollar value of work to be performed on contracts awarded and in progress.  Although backlog reflects business that is considered to be firm, cancellations or scope adjustments may occur.  Backlog is adjusted to reflect any known project cancellations, revisions to project scope and cost, and deferrals, as appropriate.  New awards is a measure of the total dollar value of work to be performed on contracts awarded in the period.  Backlog and new awards measures are regularly reported in the construction industry.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
                 
4
 QUARTER EPS $1.04; FULL YEAR 2008 EPS $3.93
TH
                 
4
 QUARTER NEW AWARDS $4.2 BILLION; FULL YEAR 2008 $25.1 BILLION
TH
 
IRVING, TEXAS  February 25, 2009  Fluor Corporation (NYSE: FLR) today announced record financial results for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.  Net earnings for 2008 rose 35 percent to a record $720 million, or $3.93 per diluted share, compared with $533 million, or $2.93 per diluted share in 2007.  Consolidated operating profit for the year was $1.3 billion, up 61 percent from $802 million a year ago.  Full year results reflect very strong profit growth in all business segments, driven by a 34 percent increase in revenue and higher operating margins which improved from 4.8 percent to 5.8 percent in 2008.  Full year net earnings also benefited from a lower tax rate.  Revenue rose to a record $22.3 billion, up from $16.7 billion in 2007.
 
Full year new awards were a company record $25.1 billion, up from $22.6 billion a year ago, driven by increases in Oil & Gas and Industrial & Infrastructure.  Year-end backlog was $33.2 billion, up 10 percent over the prior year.  Backlog was down sequentially from the high mark of $36.5 billion at the end of the third quarter, due to several factors including an increase in the fourth quarter revenue burn rate, the impact of currency exchange on international project
 
 
values, and the timing of certain new awards which closed earlier than expected, contributing to record bookings in the third quarter.
 
"2008 was without a doubt the strongest year in the company's history, with record-setting revenue, earnings and new awards," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Alan Boeckmann.  "While the economic environment is creating uncertainty in a number of our markets, many of our key clients continue to invest in strategic long-term programs where Fluor excels.  We remain optimistic that our substantial backlog and diversified business model will allow Fluor to deliver solid results in 2009."
 
Corporate G&A expense for the year increased to $229 million, from $194 million a year ago, mainly driven by an increase in compensation-related expenses and a $16 million provision for the impact of the company's decision to relocate its engineering operations in the United Kingdom.  Fluor's cash and marketable securities were $2.1 billion at year-end versus $1.7 billion a year ago, and compared with $2.2 billion at the end of the third quarter.
 
Outlook
 
The global economic environment, including declining demand for commodities and tight credit markets, continues to create a level of uncertainty in many of Fluor's markets.  While the company sees evidence of a slowdown in certain new capital investment programs, the impact to Fluor's backlog has been relatively minor.  Based on a review of Fluor's sizable backlog, a relatively robust prospect list and actions to improve overhead leverage, the company is maintaining EPS guidance at the previously issued range of $3.90 to $4.20 per share.
 
Business Segments
 
Fluor's Oil & Gas segment reported operating profit of $724 million, which is a 67 percent increase from 2007.  Revenue increased 55 percent to $12.9 billion, an increase of $4.6 billion over 2007.  New awards for the segment totaled $15.1 billion, a 12 percent increase over last year, driven mainly by sizable downstream refining awards in the United States.  Ending backlog rose to $21.4 billion, a 15 percent increase from $18.5 billion a year ago.
 
Fluor's Industrial & Infrastructure segment reported operating profit of $208 million, a substantial increase from $101 million in 2007.  Results in 2008 included a pre-tax gain of $79 million from the sale of its joint venture interest in the Greater Gabbard Offshore Wind Farm project.  Improved operating results in 2008 also reflect increased contributions from mining projects.  Revenue of $3.5 billion was modestly higher than last year, reflecting higher contributions from the mining and manufacturing and life sciences business lines.  New awards totaled $5.0 billion, up 50 percent from $3.4 billion last year.  Year-end backlog rose to $6.7 billion, an 11 percent increase over 2007.
 
The Government segment posted operating profit of $52 million, up 78 percent from a year ago.  Improved operating results reflect strong performance on current contracts, as well as improvements resulting from the shift away from fixed price contracts where the segment incurred charges in 2007.  Revenue was flat with the prior year at $1.3 billion.  New awards totaled $1.4 billion for the year, including the Savannah River contract and task orders under the LOGCAP IV contract, which brought backlog at year-end to $804 million.
 
Operating profit for the Global Services segment grew by 14 percent in 2008 to $229 million, and revenue rose 9 percent to $2.7 billion.  Improved results were mainly driven by increased performance from the equipment services business line.  Full year new awards of $2.1 billion were on par with orders received for operations and maintenance activities in 2007, bringing year-end backlog to $2.6 billion.
 
Fluor's Power segment reported operating profit of $75 million, up 98 percent from $38 million in 2007.   Revenue rose by 64 percent to $1.9 billion, reflecting significant progress on the Oak Grove coal-fired generation project and on multiple plant betterment projects.   New awards in 2008 totaled $1.3 billion, including contracts for new gas-fired generation and flue gas desulfurization units.  Power segment backlog was $1.8 billion at year-end, down from $2.4 billion at the end of 2007 due to progress on the Oak Grove project.
 
Fourth Quarter Results
 
Net earnings for the fourth quarter were $190 million, or $1.04 per diluted share, compared with $259 million, or $1.41 per diluted share in 2007.  The fourth quarter of 2008 benefited from a low tax rate, including a $12 million reduction for the capital loss resulting from the sale of the existing office facilities in the United Kingdom.  The fourth quarter of 2007 included $123 million, or 68 cents per diluted share, from the final settlement of an Internal Revenue Service income tax audit for certain prior years.  Operating profit for the fourth quarter of 2008 increased 30 percent to $323 million, up from $248 million a year ago.  Increased fourth quarter operating results were primarily due to growth in the Oil & Gas segment.  Corporate G&A expenses in the quarter were $32 million higher than a year ago, driven mainly by higher
 
compensation-related expenses and a $16 million provision for the impact of the company's decision to relocate its engineering operations in the United Kingdom.  Revenue for the quarter rose 29 percent to $6.1 billion, compared with $4.7 billion a year ago, reflecting increases in the Oil & Gas, Power and Government segments.  Fourth quarter new awards of $4.2 billion were 34 percent lower than the same quarter in 2007, reflecting lower bookings in Oil & Gas and Industrial & Infrastructure.
 
Stock Split
 
All share and per share amounts are adjusted for the July 16, 2008 stock split.
 
Fourth Quarter and Year-End Conference Call
 
Fluor will host a conference call at 5:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on Wednesday, February 25, which will be webcast live on the internet and can be accessed by logging onto http://investor.fluor.com.  A supplemental slide presentation will be available shortly before the call begins.  The webcast and presentation will be archived for 30 days following the call.
 
About Fluor Corporation
 
Fluor Corporation (NYSE: FLR) designs, builds and maintains many of the world's most challenging and complex projects.  Through its global network of offices on six continents, the company provides comprehensive capabilities and world-class expertise in the fields of engineering, procurement, construction, commissioning, operations, maintenance and project management.  Headquartered in Irving, Texas, Fluor is a FORTUNE 200 company and had revenues of $22.3 billion in 2008.  For more information visit www.fluor.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements relating to future backlog, revenue and earnings, expected performance of the Company's business and the outlook of the markets which the Company serves. The forward-looking
 
statements are based on current management expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially as a result of a number of factors, including, among other things: failure to achieve projected backlog, revenue and/or earnings levels; customer cancellations of, scope adjustments to or deferrals of existing contracts; the effects of the current worldwide financial crisis on us, our suppliers and subcontractors; the cyclical nature of many of the markets the Company serves, which may be impacted by the current economic downturn and commodity price decreases; delays or defaults in client payments; the Company's failure to receive anticipated new contract awards; decreased capital investment or expenditures, or a failure to make anticipated increased capital investment or expenditures, by the Company's clients; increased costs, especially on projects governed by fixed price contracts; the Company's ability to  access capital markets; difficulties or delays incurred in the execution of contracts, including performance issues caused in whole or in part by our joint venture or teaming partners, resulting in cost overruns or liabilities; the ability of the government to unilaterally terminate the Company's contracts; failure to meet timely completion or performance standards that could result in higher costs, reduced profits or, in some cases, losses on projects; failure to obtain favorable results in existing or future litigation or dispute resolution proceedings; foreign economic and political uncertainties; t
he potential impact of certain tax matters including, but not limited to, those from foreign operations and any audits by tax authorities; the Company's ability to hire and retain qualified personnel;
and the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives. Caution must be exercised in relying on these and other forward-looking statements. Due to known and unknown risks, the Company's results may differ materially from its expectations and projections.
 
Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in press releases as well as the Company's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in the Company's Form 10-K filed on February 25, 2009. Such filings are available either publicly or upon request from Fluor's Investor Relations Department: (469) 398-7220. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation other than as required by law to update its forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS
 
 
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL REVIEW
($ in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ITEMS
($ in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
SELECTED CASH FLOW ITEMS
($ in millions)
 
 
 
NEW AWARDS
($ in millions)
 
 
 
BACKLOG TRENDS
($ in millions)
 
 
NM = Not meaningful


