FILE:FLR/FLR-8K-20100511151019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
Expanding on comments made during the first quarter earnings call held on May 10, 2010, Fluor Corporation ("Fluor") believes that second quarter new awards could exceed its previous record of $8.8 billion for a single quarter.  This expectation is supported by a robust prospect list, including sizeable mining and oil & gas awards.  As a result, backlog for the period ending June 30, 2010 has the potential to exceed $30 billion.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that section.  Furthermore, this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K includes statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These statements reflect Fluor's views as of May 11, 2010 and relate to future events or to Fluor's future financial performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause Fluor's actual results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, information or assumptions about new awards, backlog, revenues, gross profit, expenses, income, capital and other expenditures, financing plans, capital structure, cash flow, liquidity, management's plans, goals, and objectives for future operations and growth. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the use of words such as "may," "could," "expect," "intend," "plan," "seek," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "predict," "potential," "continue," or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements since they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond Fluor's control and which could materially affect actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


