FILE:FLR/FLR-8K-20121119060250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.
                                       
Other Events.
 
As reported in prior periods, Fluor Corporation (the "Company") has been involved in a dispute in connection with the Greater Gabbard Project, a $1.8 billion lump-sum project to provide engineering, procurement and construction services for the client's offshore wind farm project in the United Kingdom. The dispute includes the Company's claim for additional compensation for schedule and cost impacts arising from certain delays and other disruption and productivity issues, which the Company believes are attributable to the client and other third parties.
 
On November 16, 2012, the Company received an unexpected adverse decision from the arbitration panel, dismissing the Company's claims for additional compensation.  The Company expects the decision to result in a pre-tax charge of approximately $400 million in the fourth quarter, which includes claim revenue previously recorded and a significant portion of liquidated damages being withheld by the client, as well as additional costs expected to be incurred through close-out of the project.  This unexpected charge was not considered in the Company's most recent earnings guidance for 2012. The Company is not presently able to calculate the after-tax charge to earnings, which amount will be reflected in the Company's year-end financial statements.  With the project substantially complete, the Company does not expect the decision to have a material adverse impact on cash flow.
 
The client's counterclaim against the Company seeking to recover costs associated with alleged defects is currently scheduled for hearing in April 2013.  To the extent the client's counterclaim is successful, there could be additional charges to the Company's earnings.
 
A copy of the Company's November 16, 2012 press release announcing the decision is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward looking statements regarding the expected accounting and financial effects of the arbitrators' decision on the Company's claims relating to the Greater Gabbard Project.  Actual results may vary based on numerous factors including final determination of costs and recoveries relating to the project, foreign currency adjustments and tax and accounting treatment of these items.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News Release
 
IRVING, TEXAS  November 16, 2012 
Fluor today announced that the company received an adverse decision from an arbitration panel regarding its claims for additional compensation related to the Greater Gabbard Offshore Wind Farm Project.
 
Through its claims, the company sought to recover compensation for schedule and cost impacts arising from delays, disruption and productivity issues which the company believes were attributable to the client and other third parties.
 
As a result of the decision, Fluor expects to record a pre-tax charge of approximately $400 million in the fourth quarter, which was not considered in its most recent earnings guidance for 2012.  With the project substantially complete, the decision is not expected to have a material adverse impact on cash flow.
 
"Fluor delivered a quality project, and we are extremely disappointed with this unexpected decision, especially considering recent statements that acknowledge that all 140 turbines are
 
commissioned and exporting electricity, and the overall performance is more than 10 percent ahead of the client's expectations," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David Seaton.
 
About Fluor Corporation
 
Fluor
Corporation
(NYSE:
FLR)
designs,
builds
and
maintains
many
of
the
world's
most
challenging
and
complex
projects.
Founded
in
1912,
the
company
was
started
by
John
Simon
Fluor
Sr.
with
a
modest
investment
of
$100.
Since
those
humble
beginnings,
the
company
has
grown
into
one
of
the
largest
engineering
&
construction
companies
in
the
world.
Fluor
is
celebrating
its
100
th
 
anniversary
during
2012.
 
Today, through its global network of offices on six continents, the company provides comprehensive capabilities and world-class expertise in engineering, procurement, construction, commissioning, operations, maintenance and project management. Headquartered in Irving, Texas, Fluor is a FORTUNE 200 company and had revenue of $23.4 billion in 2011.  For more information, visit www.fluor100.com and www.fluor.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements:
This Press Release contains forward looking statements regarding the expected accounting and financial effects of the arbitrators' decision on the Company's claims relating to the Greater Gabbard Project.  Actual results may vary based on numerous factors including final determination of costs and recoveries relating to the project, foreign currency adjustments and tax and accounting treatment of these items.


