ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward Looking Statements This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about the Companys business, managements beliefs, and assumptions made by management. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, sees, estimates and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward looking statements due to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, those discussed in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, including the section entitled Risk Factors located herein, and elsewhere in this Annual Report as well as those discussed from time to time in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports. In addition, such statements could be affected by general industry and market conditions. Such forward looking statements speak only as of the date on which they were made and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report. If we update or correct one or more forward looking statements, investors and others should not conclude that we will make additional updates or corrections with respect to other forward looking statements. Overview FLIR Systems was founded in 1978, originally providing infrared imaging systems that were installed on vehicles for use in conducting energy audits of neighborhoods by helping to determine whether there was any abnormal leakage of heat coming from the doors, windows, walls and roofs of each house. As demand for that application declined, the Company began to focus on other applications and markets for its technology, in particular, designing and selling stabilized thermal imaging systems for aircraft used by law enforcement. Since then, the Company has continued to develop thermal imaging products for a growing number of applications and has now become one of the world leaders in the design, manufacture and marketing of thermal imaging and stabilized camera systems for a wide variety of applications in the commercial, industrial and government markets. Through the acquisition of AGEMA Infrared Systems AB, headquartered in Danderyd (Stockholm), Sweden, in 1997 and the pooling of interests merger with Inframetrics, Inc., headquartered in N. Billerica (Boston), Massachusetts, in 1999, the Company has experienced significant changes in its structure and operations and our business is now organized around two principal markets, Imaging and Thermography. The Thermography market primarily consists of the use of hand held thermal imaging systems that can detect and measure minute temperature differences, which is useful for a wide variety of commercial applications that fall into four basic categories: predictive and preventive maintenance (also known as condition monitoring), research and development, process control and monitoring, and product development. In this market, where each of the three previously separate companies competed, there has been significant transition as we phased out products utilizing older infrared detector technology called cooled technology and focused on those products that utilize a newer, less expensive detector technology known as uncooled technology. Our Thermography products are produced at our facility in Sweden. The Imaging market primarily consists of the use of infrared imaging cameras that are incorporated into highly stabilized turrets, which we call gimbals, for use on helicopters, fixed wing aircraft, and all types of ships. In addition, we also manufacture ground based and hand held systems. We also make products specifically developed for firefighters. Applications for our Imaging products include search and rescue, navigation safety, drug interdiction, law enforcement support, maritime and border patrol, surveillance and reconnaissance, perimeter security and firefighting. The merger with Inframetrics brought a certain set of complimentary products to the previous portfolio of products carried by the Company. Our Imaging products are primarily produced at our Portland and Boston facilities. 17 We continue to enhance our state of the art products within both markets, as well as develop products for new market applications that use advanced thermal imaging technologies. For example, uncooled detector technology now used in our Thermography systems enable these systems to operate at room temperature, allowing for systems that are less expensive, smaller, lighter, and more energy efficient. Additionally, we are developing image analysis software tools that enhance the capability of our Thermography products. As hardware prices decline, the sophistication of image analysis software and the incremental functionality provided by such analysis tools are expected to become a more important component of Thermography systems. For our Imaging products, we are beginning to utilize a new type of cooled infrared detector technology called quantum well infrared photodetector, or QWIP. QWIP provides for superior resolution yet is less expensive to produce. In addition, we are continually improving the stabilization of our airborne systems and offering additional imaging options, such as CCD TV cameras, laser rangefinders and laser designators. During the course of 2000, the Company restructured its operations to improve profitability. As a result, in 2000, the Company recorded charges totaling $20.5 million primarily associated with realigning its operations to focus on higher margin products, eliminating aged or lower margin products, improving manufacturing efficiencies and reducing production and distribution costs. These charges included $9.0 million to cost of goods sold to adjust inventory reserves related to certain low margin products and older products being phased out. In addition, $8.8 million related to cost accumulation and asset valuations were written off as a result of these operational changes, $2.2 million was incurred associated with workforce reductions and related costs, and $0.5 million was recorded related to the settlement of the class action lawsuit. These actions in 2000 have resulted in improved profitability and cash generated from operating activities in 2001. International revenue accounted for approximately 47.0%, 48.4% and 50.2% of our revenue in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of revenue. With the production and distribution of our Thermography products in Sweden contributing a large volume of sales denominated in foreign currencies, we have exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations and changing dynamics of foreign competitiveness based on variations in the value of the US dollar relative to other currencies. The Company typically experiences longer payment cycles on its international sales, which can have an adverse impact upon the Companys liquidity. In addition, substantial portions of the Companys operations are conducted outside the United States, particularly in Sweden. International sales and operations may be subject to risks such as the imposition of governmental controls, export license requirements, restrictions on the export of critical technology, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, labor union activities, changes in tariffs and taxes, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, and general economic conditions. The Company experiences fluctuations in orders and sales due to seasonal variances and customer sales cycles, such as the seasonal pattern of contracting by the US and certain foreign governments, the frequent requirement by international customers to take delivery of equipment prior to the end of December due to funding considerations, and the tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize annual capital budgets prior to expiration. Such events have resulted and could continue to result in certain fluctuations in quarterly results in the future. As a result of such quarterly fluctuations in operating results, the Company believes that quarter to quarter comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to 18 revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, warranty obligations, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies and the related judgments and estimates affect the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition. Our policy is to recognize revenue upon delivery of our products to our customers and the fulfillment of all contractual terms and conditions, pursuant to the guidance provided by Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements (SAB 101), issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission. While we produce commercially developed off the shelf products, many of our Imaging customers, particularly those who use our airborne systems, request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories. In addition, some of our delivery contracts provide for specific testing and product acceptance by the customer. For each contract, we recognize revenue only after we have determined that we have satisfied the specific contractual terms including any options or services that are determined to be essential to the functionality of the system, and only in the amount as specified in the contract for the items and services that were delivered. Judgments are required in evaluating the credit worthiness of our customers. Credit is not extended to customers and revenue is not recognized until we have determined that the risk of uncollectibility is minimal. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. Our policy is to maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Credit limits are established through a process of reviewing the financial history and stability of each customer. Where appropriate, we obtain credit rating reports and financial statements of the customer when determining or modifying their credit limits. We regularly evaluate the collectibility of our trade receivable balances based on a combination of factors. When a customers account balance becomes past due, we initiate dialogue with the customer to determine the cause. If it is determined that the customer will be unable to meet its financial obligation to us, such as in the case of a bankruptcy filing, deterioration in the customers operating results or financial position or other material events impacting their business, we record a specific allowance to reduce the related receivable to the amount we expect to recover given all information presently available. We also record an allowance for all other customers based on certain other factors including the length of time the receivables are past due and historical collection experience with individual customers. As of December 31, 2001, our accounts receivable balance of $58.0 million is reported net of allowances for doubtful accounts of $1.9 million. We believe our reported allowances at December 31, 2001, are adequate. If the financial conditions of those customers were to deteriorate, however, resulting in their inability to make payments, we may need to record additional allowances which would result in additional selling, general and administrative expenses being recorded for the period in which such determination was made. Inventory Reserves. As a designer and manufacturer of high technology infrared systems, we are exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our inventory becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. These factors include, but are not limited to, technological changes in our markets, our ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures in products and prices, and the availability of key components from our suppliers. Our policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest that our inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate the ability to realize the value of our inventory based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Purchasing requirements and alternative usage avenues are explored within these processes to mitigate inventory exposure. When recorded, our reserves are intended to reduce the carrying value 19 of our inventory to its net realizable value. As of December 31, 2001, our inventory of $47.6 million is stated net of inventory reserves of $11.7 million. If actual demand for our products deteriorate or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional inventory reserves may be required. Product Warranties. Our products are sold with warranty provisions that require us to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of our products over a specified period of time at no cost to our customers. Our policy is to establish warranty reserves at levels that represent our estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements at the time that revenue is recognized. We believe that our recorded liability at December 31, 2001, is adequate to cover our future cost of materials, labor and overhead for the servicing of our products sold through that date. If actual product failures, or material or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, our warranty liability would need to be revised accordingly. Income Taxes. We have recorded a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company has assessed the valuation allowance based upon our estimate of future taxable income covering a relatively short time horizon given the volatility in the markets we serve and our historic operating results. External market data is considered in this evaluation. The availability of tax planning strategies to utilize our recorded deferred tax assets is also considered. As of December 31, 2001, the deferred tax assets have been reduced by valuation allowances of $18.2 million. If the Company is able to realize the deferred tax assets in an amount in excess of their reported net amounts, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase earnings in the period such determination was made. Similarly, if we should determine that we may be unable to realize our net deferred tax assets to the extent reported, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. Results of Operations The following table sets forth for the indicated periods certain items as a percentage of revenue. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior years data to conform to the current years presentation. These reclassifications had no impact on previously reported results of operations or shareholders equity. Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000(1) 1999(2) Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 45.5 55.9 69.0 Gross profit 54.5 44.1 31.0 Operating expenses: Research and development 12.7 15.6 16.5 Selling, general and administrative 24.4 34.3 35.2 Combination costs 5.2 Total operating expenses 37.1 49.9 56.9 Earnings (loss) from operations 17.4 (5.8 ) (25.9 ) Interest expense 4.4 6.5 4.4 Other (income) and expenses, net (0.4 ) (0.3 ) (1.1 ) Earnings (loss) before income taxes 13.4 (12.0 ) (29.2 ) Income tax provision 1.3 2.0 1.3 Net earnings (loss) 12.1 % (14.0 )% (30.5 )% (1) Excluding the one time charges in connection with the 2000 charges related to streamlining our manufacturing and corporate operations, cost of goods sold, gross profit, operating expenses, loss before taxes and net loss would have been 48.8%, 51.2%, 46.2%, (1.0)%, and (3.0)%, respectively. (2) Excluding the one time charges of $34.6 million in connection with the acquisition of Inframetrics, cost of goods sold, gross profit, loss from operations and net loss in 1999 would have been 54.8%, 45.2%, (6.6)% and (11.1)%, respectively. 20 Years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 Revenue. Revenue increased 15.0% from $186.4 million in 2000 to $214.4 million in 2001. The increase was primarily due to the increased sales of the Companys Imaging products, as revenue from that business segment increased 23.9% from $99.2 million in 2000 to $122.9 million in 2001. The revenue increase was experienced across most of the Imaging product line. Thermography revenue increased 5.0% from $87.1 in 2000 to $91.5 in 2001. These increases in revenue were due to an increase in unit volumes due to the growth in the number of applications for infrared technology and the ability of our products to meet those applications, in addition to price increases we implemented late in 2000. The increase in revenue from sales of our Thermography products was offset by approximately $5.0 million related to a weakening of foreign currencies relative to the US dollar during 2001. Revenue increased 4.4% from $178.6 million in 1999 to $186.4 million in 2000. The increase was due to higher sales volumes in the Imaging business as revenue in that business segment increased 10.3% from $89.9 million in 1999 to $99.2 million in 2000. The increase in Imaging revenue was experienced across most of the product segments. Revenue for Thermography in 1999 and 2000 amounted to $88.6 million and $87.1 million, respectively. Revenue for Thermography remained relatively constant, as revenue from an increase in units delivered was offset by approximately $4.9 million associated with the decline in the rate used to translate the foreign currencies to the US dollar during 2000. International revenue in 2001 totaled $100.7 million, representing 47.0% of revenue. This compares to international revenue of $90.2 million, or 48.4% of revenue, in 2000, and $89.6 million, or 50.2% of revenue, in 1999. While the sales mix between domestic and international sales may fluctuate slightly in any one year, we anticipate the mix to be approximately 50% domestic and 50% international on a long term basis. Gross profit. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit in 2001 was 54.5% compared to 44.1% in 2000. One time charges taken in 2000 related to the Companys restructuring and streamlining of its operations included $13.3 million in cost of goods sold. Without these one time charges in 2000, gross profit would have been 51.2% in 2000. The improvement in gross profit was primarily due to the price increases implemented late in 2000 and the decrease in manufacturing costs that resulted from the restructuring of operations that occurred in 2000, including the elimination of older and lower margin products. We believe the gross margin experienced in 2001 is more representative of margins that the Company will be able to realize on an on going basis. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit in 2000 was 44.1% compared to 31.0% in 1999. One time charges of $13.3 million and $25.3 million were recorded in 2000 and 1999, respectively. Without these one time charges, gross profit would have been 51.2% in 2000 and 45.2% in 1999. This improvement in gross profit for 2000 was partially attributable to the Companys efforts to decrease its manufacturing costs and streamline its operations in 2000. Research and development. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses decreased from 15.6% in 2000 to 12.7% in 2001. In absolute dollars, research and development expenses decreased from $29.2 million in 2000 to $27.2 million in 2001. Research and development expenses for 2000 included $3.1 million in one time charges related to cost accumulations, asset valuations, workforce reductions and other costs associated with the Companys efforts to restructure and streamline its operation in 2000. Without these charges, research and development expenses in 2000 would have been $26.1 million or 14.0% of revenue. We believe that the 2001 spending level for research and development as a percentage of sales is representative of spending on an on going basis and is sufficient to meet the demand for new products and changes in technology. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses decreased slightly from 16.5%, or $29.4 million, in 1999 to 15.6%, or $29.2 million in 2000. The expenses in 2000 include the one time charges of $3.1 million described above. 21 Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased from $63.9 million, or 34.3% of revenue, in 2000 to $52.3 million, or 24.4% of revenue, in 2001. The expenses in 2000 include one time charges of $3.9 million associated with Companys streamlining of its operations in that year. Without those charges, selling, general and administrative expenses would have been $60.0 million or 32.2% of revenue in 2000. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses is primarily due to the one time charges taken in 2000, the reduction in expense levels as result of the restructuring actions in 2000, and reductions in certain administrative expenses, such as legal and audit fees, that were abnormally high in 2000. We believe that the expense levels in 2001 are more representative of spending levels that the Company should experience on an on going basis. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 1.6%, from $62.9 million in 1999 to $63.9 million in 2000. The increase in these expenses was due to one time charges in 2000 totaling $3.9 million, principally related to workforce reductions, the settlement of the class action lawsuit and write offs of demonstration equipment, as well as additional legal and audit fees incurred during 2000, partially offset by cost savings generated in 2000 as a result of streamlining activities initiated during the year. As a percentage of revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses were 34.3% and 35.2% in 2000 and 1999, respectively. Interest expense. Interest expense totaled $9.4 million, $12.0 million and $7.8 million for the years ended 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The decrease in interest expense from 2000 to 2001 was due primarily to the Companys ability to reduce its debt levels through cash flows provided by operating activities. The average interest rate in 2001 was also slightly lower as compared to 2000 due to the reductions in prime lending rates during the year and reductions in rates provided under the Amended Credit Agreement based on the level of payments made by the Company during 2001. The increased interest expense from 1999 to 2000 was primarily due to increased debt levels and increased interest rates as default rates were applied during 2000 under the Companys Credit Agreement. The Agreements borrowing rates were 7.86% at December 31, 1999 increasing to a rate of 12.25% as of December 31, 2000 and declining to 6.50% at December 31, 2001. Interest expense also includes expenses associated with the fair value adjustments of the Companys interest rate swap agreements in the amounts of $1.0 million in 2001 and $1.3 million in 2000. Income taxes. The Companys income tax provision was $2.8 million, $3.7 million and $2.3 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The mix in taxable income or loss between the Companys US and foreign operations in each of these years significantly impacted the recording of the tax provision. The tax provision in all years primarily reflects taxes provided on income generated by the Companys foreign subsidiaries, principally in Sweden. In 2000 and 1999, the Company did not recognize a benefit on losses generated in those years in the United States due to the inability to carry such losses back to prior years. Accordingly, valuation allowances were recorded against the deferred tax assets associated with the net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs). In 2001, the Company did recognize a portion of those previously unrecognized loss benefits. At December 31, 2001, the Company had US NOLs totaling approximately $83.9 million and which expire in the years 2005 through 2021. Additionally, the Company has various US tax credits available aggregating $3.7 million, which expire in the years 2007 through 2020. Approximately $13.8 million of the Companys NOLs were generated, primarily in 2001, as a result of deductions related to exercises of stock options. If utilized in the future, this portion of the US NOLs, as tax effected, will be accounted for as a direct increase to additional paid in capital rather than as a reduction of that years provision for income taxes. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109) requires that the tax benefits described above be recorded as an asset to the extent that management assesses the utilization of such assets to be more likely than not; otherwise, a valuation allowance is required to be recorded. Based on this guidance, management has recorded a substantial valuation allowance amounting to $18.2 million and $24.1 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively, against such deferred tax assets. Management believes that the net deferred tax asset of $23.9 million reflected on the December 31, 2001 22 consolidated balance sheet, is realizable based on future forecasts of taxable income over a relatively short time horizon. Future levels of taxable income are dependent upon general economic conditions, including but not limited to continued growth of the Thermography and Imaging markets, competitive pressures on sales and gross margins, successful implementation of tax planning strategies, and other factors beyond the Companys control. No assurance can be given that sufficient taxable income will be generated for full utilization of the net deferred tax assets. Accordingly, the Company may be required to record an additional valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets in future periods if its future forecasts of taxable income are not achieved. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2001, the Company had total borrowings net of cash on hand of $8.4 million compared to $82.4 million at December 31, 2000. The Company was able to reduce its borrowings through cash provided by operating activities and $35.6 million of the proceeds from a secondary offering of its common stock in December 2001. All of the Companys borrowings at December 31, 2001 are reported as short term debt as the Companys primary credit facility expires in July 2002. Cash provided by operating activities in 2001 totaled $27.7 million compared to cash provided by operating activities in 2000 of $3.9 million. Cash provided by operating activities in 2001 was primarily due to net earnings generated during the year and reductions in inventories offset by an increase in accounts receivable. Cash provided by operating activities in 2000 was primarily due to reductions in accounts receivable and inventories offset by the net loss for the year, net of non cash charges, and a reduction in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. At December 31, 2001, the Company had accounts receivable in the amount of $58.0 million compared to $39.7 million at December 31, 2000. The increase in the receivable balance is primarily due to an increase in sales in the fourth quarter of 2001 compared to the fourth quarter of 2000 ($65.0 million and $57.2 million, respectively) and the timing of those sales within the quarter. Consequently, days sales outstanding increased from 78 days at December 31, 2000 to 99 days at December 31, 2001. The timing of sales, particularly the recording of large quantity or higher priced system sales, can significantly impact the calculation of days sales outstanding at any point in time. At December 31, 2001, the Company had inventories on hand of $47.6 million compared to $55.5 million at December 31, 2000. The decrease was primarily due to our continued efforts and initiatives to better manage and reduce inventory levels at our Portland and Boston facilities. At December 31, 2001, the Company had prepaid expenses and other current assets of $10.5 million compared to $5.9 million at December 31, 2000. The increase is primarily due to an increase in sales demonstration units, an increase in value added tax receivables in Europe due to both increased purchases and the timing of collections of such taxes year over year, and other increases in certain prepaid items. At December 31, 2001, the Company had deferred revenue of $5.3 million compared to $1.6 million at December 31, 2000. The increase is due to a larger number of extended warranty contracts that were received during 2001. Accrued payroll and other liabilities increased $5.0 million, from $17.6 million at December 31, 2000 to $22.5 million at December 31, 2001. The increase is primarily due to the assumption of certain liabilities of the Optronics Division, acquired by the Company during 2001. Pension and other long term liabilities increased $3.2 million, from $6.0 million at December 31, 2000 to $9.2 million at December 31, 2001. The increase is primarily due to an increase in the fair value of the 23 Companys interest rate swap agreements and the assumption of a put option obligation of $1.4 million on shares of the Companys common stock that were issued in the acquisition of the Optronics Division. The Companys investing activities have consisted primarily of expenditures for fixed assets, which totaled $4.0 million and $7.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Company entered into a Credit Agreement with a number of lender banks as of December 16, 1999. This Credit Agreement was amended as of January 23, 2001. The Credit Agreement, as amended, provided the Company with a borrowing facility to a maximum of $93.4 million and required certain principal payments that permanently reduced the maximum borrowing facility. As of December 31, 2001, and as a result of principal payments made through that date, the Company had $19.9 million of borrowings in addition to $1.9 million of standby letters of credit, with $4.1 million of financing available to the Company under the Amended Credit Agreement. At December 31, 2001, the interest rate under the Amended Credit Agreement was 6.5%, which was the prime rate of the primary lender for domestic borrowings plus 1.75%. The Amended Credit Agreement requires minimum cumulative payments through June 30, 2002 and expires on July 15, 2002. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had made all of the payments that are required through June 30, 2002. As of February 11, 2002, the Company paid the remaining $19.9 million under the Amended Credit Agreement and retains $1.9 million of standby letters of credit and $4.1 million of available financing. The Amended Credit Agreement includes one financial covenant related to the Company achieving certain levels of profitability determined on a rolling four quarter basis beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2001. As of December 31, 2001, the Company was in compliance with the covenant. The Amended Credit Agreement is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company. Additionally, the Company, through one of its subsidiaries, has a 40,000,000 Swedish Kronar (approximately $3.8 million) line of credit at 4.3% at December 31, 2001. At December 31, 2001, the Company had $3.5 million outstanding on this line. This credit line is secured primarily by accounts receivable and inventories of the subsidiary and is subject to automatic renewal on an annual basis. We continuously evaluate our need for cash requirements for the foreseeable future. We generated $39.4 million in cash by our operating activities during the fifteen months ended December 31, 2001. Those operating cash flows, combined with cash generated from our secondary offering of common stock in December 2001 and the proceeds received in relation to our stock option plans, were sufficient to fund our operations and significantly reduce our borrowing facilities. We believe, based upon our assessment of the growth potential in our markets, our relative position in those markets, our current cost structure and our asset management abilities, that our cash from operating activities should continue to be our primary source of financing. The Amended Credit Agreement that we currently operate under expires on July 15, 2002. On February 11, 2002, we executed a commitment letter with a bank on a $35 million syndicated senior credit facility that will replace the Amended Credit Agreement. The form of the funding arrangement is a three year revolving credit facility, which includes an option to increase the credit facility by an additional $25 million during the first two years of the term agreement. Under the terms of the proposed agreement, borrowings will bear interest based upon the banks prime lending rate or LIBOR rates, with a provision for a spread over such rates based upon certain financial criteria. The Company expects that these variable rates will approximate the banks prime lending rate. The facility will subject the Company to several financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain fixed charge and leverage ratios in addition to minimum levels of net worth and EBITDA. Management expects to be able to comply with such covenants based upon its forecast of future earnings because, at a minimum, the Companys operating results for 2001, when considered with the Companys net worth at December 31, 2001, would be sufficient to satisfy the proposed covenants. We expect to sign the final agreement on this credit facility shortly after the filing of this Form 10 K. 24 At the present, we do not have any significant capital commitments for the 2002 fiscal year. Consequently, we anticipate our cash requirements to be primarily related to the funding of our operating activities. With the cash we have recently generated by our operating activities and the additional funds that will be available through the pending credit facility, we believe we have sufficient resources available to meet our cash requirements. However, significant changes in those anticipated cash requirements or significant changes in business conditions that could negatively impact the generation of cash from operating activities could require the Company to seek additional financing from other sources. Possible changes in business conditions are discussed in more detail in the section entitled Risk Factors located herein. The Companys off balance sheet arrangements are limited to operating rents and leases on certain facilities and equipment and are expensed as incurred. As of December 31, 2001, the future annual minimal rental payments required under non cancelable leases total $3.4 million in 2002, $3.4 million in 2003, $3.1 million in 2004, $1.7 million in 2005 and $0.3 million in 2006. The Company has interest rate swap agreements with one of its lender banks. The agreements include notional principal amounts of $30 million and $10 million that terminate in March 2003 and March 2005, respectively. Under these agreements, the Company pays interest based upon fixed rates ranging from 6.69% to 7.18%, while receiving interest based upon variable one month LIBOR rates that was 1.93% at December 31, 2001. At December 31, 2001, the Company has recorded the fair value obligation related to these agreements of $2.3 million. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed in the Forward Looking Statements section of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this Form 10 K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. In addition, you should know that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Unforeseen risks could arise and problems or issues that we now view as minor could become more significant. If we were unable to adequately respond to any of the listed risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurances that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will work. Our inability to respond to any of the risks could cause our financial condition and results of operations to be materially adversely affected. Fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our quarterly and annual operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. As a result of the fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Factors that may affect our future operating results include: The timing, number and size of orders from, and shipments to, our customers, as well as the relative mix of those orders; A significant portion of our sales is made in the last month of each quarter, with sales frequently concentrated in the last week or days of the quarter; The timing and market acceptance of our or our competitors new products, product enhancements or technologies; The timing of the release of government funds for procurement of our products; Changes in our or our competitors pricing policies; The timing and amount of any inventory write downs; 25 Our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of critical components; Foreign currency fluctuations; Costs associated with the acquisition of other businesses, product lines or technologies; Our ability to integrate acquired businesses, product lines or technologies; and General economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. Seasonal fluctuations in our operating results, particularly the increase in sales we generally experience every year in the fourth quarter, result from: The seasonal pattern of contracting by the US and certain foreign governments; The frequent requirement of international customers to take delivery of equipment prior to January due to funding considerations; and The tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize yearly capital budgets prior to expiration. We have had difficulties managing our growth. We have grown rapidly from 313 employees in 1993 to 798 employees as of December 31, 2001. Our annual revenue during that period grew from $40 million to $214 million and our operations became global in nature. In the past, we experienced problems in developing and implementing a financial reporting and controls system commensurate with the substantial growth and increased complexity of our business. We have taken a number of steps to improve our controls and systems, including the implementation of a new set of reporting and control procedures and protocols and the retention of a new executive management team and financial reporting personnel. However, if these and other measures we take are inadequate to address the growth we are continuing to experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The pending investigation by the SEC could harm our business. On June 8, 2000, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a formal order of investigation of us and certain officers, directors, employees and other individuals presently and formerly associated with our company to determine whether any violations of the federal securities laws occurred during 1998 and 1999. The investigation relates to the Companys revenue recognition policies, accounting controls, financial reports and other public disclosures during that time period. We believe that the investigation relates to, among other things, the same set of facts that gave rise to the restatements of our financial statements for those periods and to class action lawsuits by our shareholders that have now been settled. As part of its investigation, the SEC subpoenaed documents and testimony from our current and former officers and employees and others. On February 19, 2002, the staff of the SEC advised us that they intend to recommend that the SEC bring a civil injunctive action against us seeking a permanent injunction against us for violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) and Sections 10(b), 13(a) and 13(b)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) and Rules 10b 5, 12b 20, 13a 1, 13a 13 and 13b2 1 thereunder. These statutes and rules generally include the antifraud provisions of the Securities Act and the antifraud, reporting and record keeping provisions of Exchange Act and the rules thereunder. The recommendation of the SEC staff does not include civil penalties, fines or other claims for damages and is for the years 1998 and 1999. We have engaged in discussions with the staff of the SEC in an attempt to reach a settlement of the legal action contemplated by the staff, but as of this date have been unable to reach agreement on the terms of settlement. We have also submitted a written statement to the SEC as to why we believe the SEC should not bring the civil injunctive action recommended by the staff. At this time, we do not know whether the SEC will 26 authorize the commencement of the injunctive action recommended by its staff or whether the SEC will authorize any other legal action or commence any administrative actions against us. If we are not able to negotiate a settlement with the SEC with regard to any such injunctive actions or administrative proceedings, we intend to vigorously defend against any such actions or proceedings. Any legal or injunctive action or administrative proceeding that the SEC may bring against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An adverse finding against us by the SEC on the terms proposed by the staff could also result in the loss of our ability to rely on the safe harbor for forward looking statements provided by the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, we expect to continue to incur expenses associated with responding to the investigation and any legal or administrative proceedings commenced by the SEC involving the Company or former or current officers, directors and employees, and any such proceedings may divert the efforts of our management team from normal business operations. A reduction in government purchasing could significantly decrease revenue. The government procurement process is complex and highly competitive. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to US and foreign government agencies and our business will continue to be substantially dependent upon such sales. No sales to a single agency of the US Government accounted for more than 10% of our revenue last year, but aggregate sales to US Government agencies accounted for 18.2% of our revenue for 2000 and 21.7% of our revenue for 2001. Accordingly, our results of operations would be adversely impacted by governmental spending cuts and general budgetary constraints. Additionally, even though most of our government sales are not made for defense applications, a significant reduction in purchases of thermal imaging systems for defense applications could result in certain of our competitors committing more attention and resources to non defense applications, thereby exposing us to greater competitive pressures in our primary markets. A significant decline in our sales to US or foreign governments or our disqualification from making such sales for any reason would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to reduce our costs quickly enough if our sales decline. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales, and these expenses are largely fixed, particularly in the short term. In addition, to enable us to promptly fill orders, we maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials. As a result, we commit to considerable costs in advance of anticipated sales. Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales. Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write downs and write offs. As a result, we may not carry adequate reserves to offset such write downs or write offs. Our liquidity is limited as a result of restrictions on borrowings under our bank credit agreement and the limited duration of that agreement. We entered into a Credit Agreement with a number of banks as of December 16, 1999. This Credit Agreement was amended as of January 23, 2001. As of December 31, 2001, and as a result of principal payments made through that date, we had $19.9 million of borrowings in addition to $1.9 million of standby letters of credit, with $4.1 million available to us for additional borrowings under the Amended Credit Agreement. All borrowings under the Amended Credit Agreement must be repaid by July 15, 2002, when the Amended Credit Agreement expires. The Amended Credit Agreement also includes certain covenants. We have in the past, and could in the future, be out of compliance with such covenants. The failure to satisfy such covenants would result in our default under the Amended Credit Agreement. 27 On February 11, 2002, we executed a commitment letter with a bank on a $35 million syndicated senior credit facility that will replace the Amended Credit Agreement. The form of the funding arrangement is a three year revolving credit facility, which includes an option to increase the credit facility by an additional $25 million during the first two years of the term agreement. The credit facility will provide for variable interest rates that should approximate the banks prime rate. The credit facility will subject the Company to several financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain fixed charge and leverage ratios in addition to minimum levels of net worth and EBITDA. We expect to sign the final agreement on this credit facility shortly after the filing of this Form 10 K. If we are not successful with either the completion of this new facility or compliance with its proposed covenants, our liquidity would be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to the rapid technological change in the markets in which we compete. The market for thermal imaging equipment is characterized by rapid technological developments and frequent new product introductions, enhancements and modifications. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to develop new technologies that anticipate changing customer requirements. We may need to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to develop and introduce new products and enhancements. If we fail to timely develop and introduce new technologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. From time to time, we or our competitors may announce new products, product enhancements or technological innovations that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycles of our products and that may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products, resulting in inventory obsolescence. We must successfully introduce new or enhanced products to be successful. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to improve our existing products and to develop new products using the latest technology that can satisfy customer requirements. For example, our near term success will depend on the continued acceptance of the Star SAFIRE and ThermaCAM 695, sales of which we expect to generate a substantial amount of our annual revenue. We are also investing a significant amount of our financial resources in the enhancement of some of our other existing products. We cannot be certain that we will successfully complete these enhancements within the necessary time period or that customers will accept our new products, or any future products. Our failure to complete the enhancement of these products or the failure of our current or future products to gain or maintain market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the market for thermal imaging equipment is intense and our failure to compete effectively would adversely affect our business. Competition in the markets for our products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product features, reliability and price. Additionally, our products compete indirectly with numerous other products, such as image intensifiers and low light cameras, for limited military and governmental funds. Finally, many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development and marketing resources than we do. All of these factors result in greater challenges from our existing competitors as well as increasing competition from new competitors and require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Dependence on sole source and limited source suppliers of components of our products exposes us to risks that could result in delays in satisfying customer demand, increased costs and loss of revenue. We rely on a number of sole source and limited source suppliers to provide certain key components for our products. Accordingly, we could experience a shortage in the supply of some of our components. In particular, we have a contract with BAE Systems (BAE) for the supply of uncooled detectors for integration into our ThermaCAM and FireFLIR product lines. BAE is currently one of three large producers of specialized uncooled detectors. Subject to certain exceptions, the contract gives us the exclusive right to purchase uncooled detectors for use in the commercial market and a limited, non exclusive right to purchase uncooled detectors for use in the government market. Under the contract, we have the corresponding obligation to purchase uncooled detectors solely from BAE for certain defined commercial applications. Currently, the ThermaCAM series of hand held products, ThermoVision, ThermoVision Sentry and FireFLIR are our only products that use the BAE detectors. However, we intend to use uncooled detectors supplied by BAE in other products. The contract provides for the monthly delivery of a fixed number of uncooled detectors, which may be increased or decreased by us within certain limits. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in the event that either (i) the number of detectors delivered to us under the contract is insufficient to satisfy our requirements or (ii) we are obligated to purchase detectors in excess of the number we require. The contract covers the purchase of a fixed aggregate number of units. After expiration of the contract, we may not be able to successfully negotiate a new contract with BAE or another company for uncooled detectors. Failure by us to renew the contract or identify another source of uncooled detectors would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Based on past experience, we expect to occasionally receive late deliveries or to experience inadequate supplies of certain components. If the components provided by BAE or any other significant supplier were to become unavailable, our manufacturing operations would be disrupted. Unless we could identify and qualify acceptable replacement components or redesign our products with different components, we might not be able to obtain necessary components on a timely basis or at acceptable prices. Any extended interruption in the supply of sole or limited source components would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key senior management and qualified technical and sales personnel. Our future success depends on the efforts and continued services of our key executives and our ability to attract and retain qualified technical and sales personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key technical and sales personnel or our ability to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified technical and sales personnel as may be required in the future. We also cannot assure that employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Any acquisition or equity investment we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past, and may in the future, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or enter into joint ventures. We may experience difficulties in assimilating the personnel, operations, products and technology acquired in any future acquisitions or investments we make. Additionally, we could lose the key personnel from any of the companies that we acquire, incur unanticipated costs and assume new liabilities. Any of these difficulties could disrupt our on going business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Furthermore, we might have to incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of any additional equity securities could dilute our existing shareholders ownership. No assurance can be given that we will realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or that such acquisition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 We face risks from international sales and currency fluctuations. We market and sell our products worldwide and international sales have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, international sales accounted for 47.0% and 48.4%, respectively, of our total revenue. Our international sales are subject to a number of risks, including: The imposition of governmental controls; Restrictions on the export of critical technology; Trade restrictions; Difficulty in collecting receivables; Inadequate protection of intellectual property; Labor union activities; Changes in tariffs and taxes; Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; Political and economic instability; and General economic conditions. Historically, currency fluctuations have affected our operating results. Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales are denominated or costs incurred have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results. We seek to reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations by denominating the majority of our international sales in US dollars. With respect to international sales denominated in US dollars, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the US dollar could make our products less price competitive. No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in maintaining and obtaining the necessary licenses to conduct operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments. Licenses are required from government agencies under the Export Administration Act, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 and the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 for export of many of our products. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining these licenses. Failure to obtain or delays in obtaining these licenses would prevent or delay us from selling our products outside the US and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products may suffer from defects or errors leading to substantial damage or warranty claims. Our products use complex system designs and components that may contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products or release new versions. While we have not yet had to recall a product, if any of our products are defective, we might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such an event could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, product defects could result in substantial product liability. We maintain product liability insurance but cannot be certain that it is adequate or will remain available on acceptable terms. 30 Our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights and avoid infringing the rights of others could harm our competitive position and our business. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing the rights of others. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Most of our proprietary rights are held in confidence as trade secrets and are not covered by patents, making them more difficult to protect. Although we currently hold US patents covering certain aspects of our technologies and products, we cannot be certain that we will obtain additional patents or trademarks on our technology, products and trade names. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our patents or trademarks will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors. Likewise, we cannot be certain that measures taken to protect our proprietary rights will adequately deter their misappropriation or disclosure. Any failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, because intellectual property does not necessarily represent a barrier to entry into the thermal imaging industry, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our competitive advantage or that competitors will not develop capabilities equal or superior to ours. Litigation over patents and other intellectual property is common in our industry. We cannot be sure that we will not be the subject of patent or other litigation in the future. Defending intellectual property lawsuits and related legal and administrative proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort of our personnel. An adverse determination in a patent suit or in any other proceeding to which we may be a party could subject us to significant liabilities. An adverse determination could require us to seek licenses from third parties. If licenses were not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our business could be harmed. We would be harmed if we were unable to use one of our facilities. We manufacture our products at facilities located in Portland, Boston and Stockholm. Our inability to continue to manufacture our products at one or more of our facilities as a result of, for example, a prolonged power shortage, fire or other natural disaster, would prevent us from supplying products to our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our principal shareholder has substantial voting power and may exert significant influence over our direction and policies, including any matter requiring shareholder approval. As of February 15, 2002, Thermo Electron Corporation beneficially owned 16.6% of our outstanding common stock. By virtue of its stock ownership position, Thermo Electron may be able to significantly influence our direction and policies, the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of any other matter requiring shareholder approval, including any merger, consolidation, sale of substantially all of our assets or other change of control transaction. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control or discourage a potential acquiror from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Our Articles, Bylaws and Shareholder Rights Plan as well as Oregon law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Provisions of our Second Restated Articles of Incorporation, First Restated Bylaws, Oregon law and our Shareholder Rights Plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. 31 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK The Companys exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to its short term and long term debt obligations. The debt obligations are at variable rates. The Company has not historically utilized interest rate swap or similar hedging arrangements to fix interest rates, but in March 2000, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements with one of its lender banks for a notional amount of $40.0 million. A change in interest rates on the debt obligations impacts the interest incurred and cash flows. A change in interest rates related to the swap agreements impacts interest incurred, cash flows and the fair value of the instrument. The sensitivity analysis related to the Companys debt obligation assumes a change of 10% in the variable interest rates from their levels of December 31, 2001 with all other variables held constant. A 10% increase in market interest rates would result in an increase in interest expense of $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. A 10% decrease in market interest rates would result in a decrease in interest expense of $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The sensitivity analysis related to the Companys swap agreements assumes a change of 10% in the variable interest rates from their levels of December 31, 2001 with all other variables held constant. A 10% increase in market interest rates would result in a decrease in interest expense of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 and a decrease in the fair value of the obligations of $0.2 million. A 10% decrease in market interest rates would result in an increase in interest expense of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 and an increase in the fair value of the obligation of $0.2 million. The Company has assets, liabilities, and inventory purchase commitments outside the United States that are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Similarly, revenues from products sold in foreign countries are sold in foreign currencies. Assets and liabilities located outside the United States are primarily located in Sweden and the United Kingdom. The Companys investment in foreign subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the US dollar are generally considered long term. Accordingly, the Company does not hedge these net investments. The Company does not engage in forward currency exchange contracts to reduce its economic exposure to changes in exchange rates. Because the Company markets, sells and licenses our products throughout the world, it could be significantly affected by weak economic conditions in foreign markets that could reduce demand for its products. 
 
