ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview FLIR was founded in 1978, originally providing infrared imaging systems that were installed on vehicles for use in conducting energy audits of neighborhoods by helping to determine whether there was any abnormal leakage of heat coming from the doors, windows, walls and roofs of each house. As demand for that application declined, the Company began to focus on other applications and markets for its technology, in particular, designing and selling stabilized thermal imaging systems for aircraft used by law enforcement. Since then, the Company has continued to develop thermal imaging products for a growing number of applications and has now become one of the world leaders in the design, manufacture and marketing of thermal imaging and stabilized camera systems for a wide variety of applications in the commercial, industrial and government markets. Over the years, due to its growth, the Company has experienced significant changes in its structure and operations and our business is now organized around two principal business segments, Thermography and Imaging. The Thermography market primarily consists of the use of hand held thermal imaging systems that can detect and measure minute temperature differences, which is useful for a wide variety of commercial applications. These applications fall into four basic categories: predictive maintenance (also known as condition monitoring), research and development, process control and monitoring, and product development. In this market, there has been significant transition as we phased out many products utilizing older infrared detector technology called cooled technology and focused on those products that utilize a newer, less expensive detector technology known as uncooled technology. Our Thermography products are produced at our facility in Sweden. The Imaging market primarily consists of the use of infrared imaging cameras that are incorporated into highly stabilized turrets, which we call gimbals, for use on helicopters, fixed wing aircraft, and all types of ships. In addition, we also manufacture ground based and hand held systems. We also make products specifically developed for firefighters. Applications for our Imaging products include search and rescue, navigation safety, drug interdiction, law enforcement support, maritime and border patrol, surveillance and reconnaissance, perimeter security and firefighting. Our Imaging products are primarily produced at our Portland and Boston facilities. We continue to enhance our state of the art products within both markets, as well as develop products for new market applications that use advanced thermal imaging technologies. For example, uncooled detector technology now used in our Thermography systems enable these systems to operate at room temperature, allowing for systems that are less expensive, smaller, lighter, and more energy efficient. Additionally, we are developing image analysis software tools that enhance the capability of our Thermography products. As hardware prices decline, the sophistication of image analysis software and the incremental functionality provided by such analysis tools are expected to become a more important component of Thermography systems. For our Imaging products, we have begun to utilize a new type of cooled infrared detector technology called quantum well infrared photodetector, or QWIP. QWIP provides for superior resolution yet is less expensive to produce. In addition, we are continually improving the stabilization of our airborne systems and offering additional imaging options, such as CCD TV cameras, laser rangefinders and laser designators. International revenue accounted for approximately 44.0%, 47.0% and 48.4% of our revenue in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of revenue. With the production and distribution of our Thermography products in Sweden contributing a large volume of sales denominated in foreign currencies, we have exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations and changing dynamics of foreign competitiveness based on variations in the value of the US dollar relative to other currencies. 19 Table of Contents The Company typically experiences longer payment cycles on its international sales, which can have an adverse impact upon the Companys liquidity. In addition, substantial portions of the Companys operations are conducted outside the United States, particularly in Sweden. International sales and operations may be subject to risks such as the imposition of governmental controls, export license requirements, restrictions on the export of critical technology, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, labor union activities, changes in tariffs and taxes, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, and general economic conditions. The Company experiences fluctuations in orders and sales due to seasonal variances and customer sales cycles, such as the seasonal pattern of contracting by the US and certain foreign governments, the frequent requirement by international customers to take delivery of equipment prior to the end of December due to funding considerations, and the tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize annual capital budgets prior to expiration. Such events have resulted and could continue to result in certain fluctuations in quarterly results in the future. As a result of such quarterly fluctuations in operating results, the Company believes that quarter to quarter comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, goodwill impairment, warranty obligations, contingencies and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. We believe the following critical accounting policies and the related judgments and estimates affect the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition. Our policy is to recognize revenue upon delivery of the product to the customer, passage of title to the customer as indicated by the shipping terms and fulfillment of all significant obligations, pursuant to guidance provided by Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements (SAB 101), issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We design, market and sell our products as standard, off the shelf products. Many of our Imaging customers, particularly those who use our airborne systems, request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that we offer. In general, our revenue arrangements do not involve acceptance provisions based upon customer specified acceptance criteria. In those limited circumstances when customer specified acceptance criteria exist, revenue is deferred until customer acceptance if we cannot demonstrate the system meets those specifications prior to shipment. For any contracts with multiple elements (i.e., training, installation, additional parts), we recognize revenue only after we have determined that all elements essential to the functionality of the system have been delivered. Any undelivered items not considered essential to functionality, are deferred at their estimated fair value. Judgments are required in evaluating the credit worthiness of our customers. Credit is not extended to customers and revenue is not recognized until we have determined that the risk of uncollectibility is minimal. Allowance for doubtful accounts. Our policy is to maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Credit limits are established through a process of reviewing the financial history and stability of each customer. Where appropriate, we obtain credit rating reports 20 Table of Contents and financial statements of the customer when determining or modifying their credit limits. We regularly evaluate the collectibility of our trade receivable balances based on a combination of factors. When a customers account balance becomes past due, we initiate dialogue with the customer to determine the cause. If it is determined that the customer will be unable to meet its financial obligation to us, such as in the case of a bankruptcy filing, deterioration in the customers operating results or financial position or other material events impacting their business, we record a specific allowance to reduce the related receivable to the amount we expect to recover given all information presently available. We also record an allowance for all other customers based on certain other factors including the length of time the receivables are past due and historical collection experience with individual customers. As of December 31, 2002, our accounts receivable balance of $55.8 million is reported net of allowances for doubtful accounts of $1.4 million. We believe our reported allowances at December 31, 2002, are adequate. If the financial conditions of those customers were to deteriorate, however, resulting in their inability to make payments, we may need to record additional allowances that would result in additional selling, general and administrative expenses being recorded for the period in which such determination is made. Inventory reserves. As a designer and manufacturer of high technology infrared systems, we are exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our inventories becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. These factors include, but are not limited to, technological changes in our markets, our ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures in products and prices, and the availability of key components from our suppliers. Our policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest that our inventories may be in excess of anticipated demand or are obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate the ability to realize the value of our inventories based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Purchasing requirements and alternative usage avenues are explored within these processes to mitigate inventory exposure. When recorded, our reserves are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventories to their net realizable value. As of December 31, 2002, our inventories of $50.1 million are stated net of inventory reserves of $10.3 million. If actual demand for our products deteriorate or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional inventory reserves may be required. Goodwill impairment. The Company recorded goodwill in connection with our acquisition of AGEMA Infrared Systems AB in 1997. During the year ended December 31, 2002, we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). SFAS 142 changed the accounting for goodwill from an amortization method to an impairment only approach. We annually review goodwill for impairment to determine if events or changes in business conditions indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. Such reviews assess the fair value of the assets based upon our estimates of the future cash flows we expect the assets to generate within the boundary of the overall market capitalization of the Company. Our current review indicates that no adjustments are necessary for the goodwill asset, which has a carrying value of $12.5 million as of December 31, 2002. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources in the future which could result in an impairment of goodwill. Product warranties. Our products are sold with warranty provisions that require us to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of our products over a specified period of time at no cost to our customers. Our policy is to establish warranty reserves at levels that represent our estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements at the time that revenue is recognized. We believe that our recorded liability of $3.4 million at December 31, 2002, is adequate to cover our future cost of materials, labor and overhead for the servicing of our products sold through that date. If actual product failures, or material or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, our warranty liability would need to be revised accordingly. Contingencies. We are subject to the possibility of loss contingencies arising in the normal course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as 21 Table of Contents our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted. Income taxes. We record our deferred tax assets at an amount that we determine is more likely than not to be realized in the future. Valuation allowances against deferred tax assets are recorded when a determination is made that the deferred tax assets are not likely to be realized in the future. In making that determination, we estimate our future taxable income based upon historic operating results and external market data. Future levels of taxable income are dependent upon, but not limited to, general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other factors beyond our control. As of December 31, 2002, we have determined that no valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets of $34.9 million is required. If we should determine that we may be unable to realize our deferred tax assets to the extent reported, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination is made. Results of Operations The following table sets forth for the indicated periods certain items as a percentage of revenue. Year Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000(1) Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 47.5 45.5 55.9 Gross profit 52.5 54.5 44.1 Operating expenses: Research and development 10.3 12.7 15.6 Selling, general and administrative 23.0 24.4 34.3 Total operating expenses 33.3 37.1 49.9 Earnings (loss) from operations 19.2 17.4 (5.8 ) Interest expense 0.6 4.4 6.5 Other (income), net (0.1 ) (0.4 ) (0.3 ) Earnings (loss) before income taxes 18.7 13.4 (12.0 ) Income tax provision 2.8 1.3 2.0 Net earnings (loss) 15.9 % 12.1 % (14.0 )% (1) Excluding the one time charges in connection with the 2000 charges related to streamlining our manufacturing and corporate operations, cost of goods sold, gross profit, operating expenses, loss before taxes and net loss would have been 48.8%, 51.2%, 46.2%, (1.0)%, and (3.0)%, respectively. Years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 Revenue. Revenue for 2002 totaled $261.1 million, an increase of 21.8% over the $214.4 million in revenue reported in 2001. Revenue from the Imaging business segment increased 36.1% from $122.9 million in 2001 to $167.2 million in 2002, while the Thermography business segment reported a revenue increase of 2.6% from $91.5 million in 2001 to $93.8 million in 2002. The increase in Imaging revenue was primarily due to an increase in unit volumes, particularly in our ground based products, and the mix of shipments within our airborne product offerings. The Thermography revenue increase was due to greater unit volume shipments, primarily due to the market acceptance of our new E Series products, offset by the lower prices associated with the E Series products and reductions in capital spending by our customer base which impacted our higher priced Thermography products. 22 Table of Contents Revenue increased 15.0% from $186.4 million in 2000 to $214.4 million in 2001. The increase was primarily due to the increased sales of the Companys Imaging products, as revenue from that business segment increased 23.9% from $99.2 million in 2000 to $122.9 million in 2001. The revenue increase was experienced across most of the Imaging product lines. Thermography revenue increased 5.0% from $87.1 million in 2000 to $91.5 million in 2001. These increases in revenue were due to an increase in unit volumes attributable to the growth in the number of applications for infrared technology and the ability of our products to meet those applications, in addition to price increases we implemented late in 2000. International revenue in 2002 totaled $114.8 million, representing 44.0% of revenue. This compares to international revenue in 2001 which totaled $100.7 million, representing 47.0% of revenue, and $90.2 million, or 48.4% of revenue, in 2000. While the sales mix between domestic and international sales may fluctuate slightly in any one year, we anticipate the mix to be approximately 50% domestic and 50% international on a long term basis. Gross profit. As a percentage to revenue, gross profit in 2002 was 52.5% compared to 54.5% in 2001. The decrease in gross profit percentage was primarily due to the change in relative mix of revenue from our business segments. We historically experience higher gross margins in our Thermography business than in our Imaging business. In 2002, Imaging revenue represented 64.1% of our total revenue compared to 57.3% of total revenue in 2001. We believe that the gross margins within both of our business segments are representative of margins that the Company will be able to realize on an on going basis, however, the relative mix of revenue between the two business segments will continue to influence our total gross margins. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit in 2001 was 54.5% compared to 44.1% in 2000. One time charges taken in 2000 related to the Companys restructuring and streamlining of its operations included $13.3 million in cost of goods sold. Without these one time charges in 2000, gross profit would have been 51.2% in 2000. The improvement in gross profit was primarily due to the price increases implemented late in 2000 and the decrease in manufacturing costs that resulted from the restructuring of operations that occurred in 2000, including the elimination of older and lower margin products. Research and development. Research and development expenses were $26.9 million during 2002 compared to $27.2 million in 2001. While, as a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses decreased from 12.7% in 2001 to 10.3% in 2002, we believe that spending levels are sufficient to support the development of new products and the continued growth of the business. We expect research and development expenses to represent 10% to 12% of our revenue on a long term basis. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses decreased from 15.6% in 2000 to 12.7% in 2001. In absolute dollars, research and development expenses decreased from $29.2 million in 2000 to $27.2 million in 2001. Research and development expenses for 2000 included $3.1 million in one time charges related to cost accumulations, asset valuations, workforce reductions and other costs associated with the Companys efforts to restructure and streamline its operations in 2000. Without these charges, research and development expenses in 2000 would have been $26.1 million or 14.0% of revenue. Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased from $52.3 million, or 24.4% of revenue, in 2001 to $60.0 million, or 23.0% of revenue, in 2002. The increase in spending was primarily due to the increase in selling and marketing expenses arising from the general business and revenue growth during 2002, partially offset by a reduction of $1.1 million in expenses from 2001 to 2002 related to the discontinuance of the amortization of goodwill in 2002. We anticipate selling, general and administrative expenses to continue to represent 22% to 24% of our revenue in the future. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased from $63.9 million, or 34.3% of revenue, in 2000 to $52.3 million, or 24.4% of revenue, in 2001. The expenses in 2000 include one time charges of $3.9 million associated with Companys streamlining of its operations in that year. Without those charges, selling, general and administrative expenses would have been $60.0 million or 32.2% of revenue in 2000. The decrease in selling, 23 Table of Contents general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the one time charges taken in 2000, the reduction in expense levels as result of the restructuring actions in 2000, and reductions in certain administrative expenses, such as legal and audit fees, that were abnormally high in 2000. Interest expense. Interest expense totaled $1.7 million, $9.4 million, and $12.0 million for the years ended 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The decrease in interest from 2001 to 2002 was due primarily to the reduction in debt as the Company was able to use cash from operations and the proceeds from its December 2001 secondary stock offering to repay its outstanding debt. The Companys outstanding indebtedness under its primary credit agreement declined from $89.9 million at the beginning of 2001 to $19.9 million at the end of 2001 and was paid in full in February 2002. The decline from 2000 to 2001 was due to the debt payments during 2001 and a slightly lower average interest rate in 2001 due to the reductions in prime lending rates during the year and reductions in rates provided under the credit agreement based on the level of principal payments made in 2001. Interest expense for 2002, 2001 and 2000 also includes expenses associated with the Companys interest rate swap agreements in the amounts of $1.0 million, $2.2 million and $1.4 million, respectively. The swap agreements were settled during 2002. Income taxes. The Companys income tax provision was $7.3 million, $2.8 million and $3.7 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The mix in taxable income between the Companys US and foreign operations in each of these years and the expected utilization of the Companys deferred tax assets significantly impacted the recording of the tax provisions. In 2002, 2001 and 2000, the tax provision primarily represented taxes provided on income generated by the Companys foreign subsidiaries, principally in Sweden, and state income taxes in the US. In 2000, the Company did not recognize a federal tax benefit on losses in the United States due to the inability to carry such losses back to prior years. Accordingly, valuation allowances were recorded against the deferred tax assets associated with the net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs). In 2002 and 2001, the Company was able to recognize those previously unrecognized loss benefits. At December 31, 2002, the Company had US NOLs totaling $66.5 million which expire in the years 2019 through 2021. Additionally, the Company has various US tax credits available aggregating $4.3 million, which expire in the years 2007 through 2021. The Company has generated deductions of US taxes related to the exercise of stock options that have served to offset the reductions in its NOLs. The utilization of these stock option exercise deductions is accounted for as a direct increase in additional paid in capital rather than as a reduction in the Companys tax provision. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 Accounting for Income Taxes requires that the tax benefits described above be recorded as assets to the extent that management assesses the utilization of such assets to be more likely than not; otherwise, a valuation allowance is required to be recorded. Based on this guidance, management believes that the deferred tax assets of $34.9 million reflected on the December 31, 2002 consolidated balance sheet, is realizable based on future forecasts of taxable income over a relatively short time horizon and has not recorded a valuation allowance. Future levels of taxable income are dependent upon general economic conditions, including but not limited to continued growth of the Thermography and Imaging markets, competitive pressures on sales and gross margins, successful implementation of tax planning strategies, and other factors beyond the Companys control. No assurance can be given that sufficient taxable income will be generated for full utilization of the deferred tax assets. Accordingly, the Company may be required to record a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets in future periods if its future forecasts of taxable income are not achieved. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2002, the Company had $46.6 million in cash compared to $8.4 million in total borrowings net of cash on hand at December 31, 2001. The Company had no borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2002. The Company was able to reduce its borrowings through cash provided by operating activities. 24 Table of Contents Cash provided by operating activities in 2002 totaled $55.0 million compared to $27.7 million in 2001. Cash provided by operating activities in 2002 was primarily due to net earnings, reductions in accounts receivable and an increase in accrued liabilities offset by an increase in inventories and a reduction in accounts payable. Cash provided by operating activities in 2001 was primarily due to net earnings generated during the year and reductions in inventories offset by an increase in accounts receivable. At December 31, 2002, the Company had accounts receivable in the amount of $55.8 million compared to $58.0 million at December 31, 2001. The decrease in the receivable balance is primarily due to an increase in collection efforts. Consequently, days sales outstanding decreased from 99 days at December 31, 2001 to 78 days at December 31, 2002. The timing of sales, particularly the recording of large quantity or higher priced system sales, can significantly impact the calculation of days sales outstanding at any point in time. At December 31, 2002, the Company had inventories of $50.1 million compared to $46.6 million at December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily due to the general growth in the Companys revenues. However, as we continue to manage that growth, the Company was able to improve its inventory turns from 1.9 in 2001 to 2.5 in 2002. At December 31, 2002, the Company had prepaid expenses and other current assets of $12.7 million compared to $11.5 million at December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily due to an increase in supplier advances and certain prepaid expenses, including insurance. At December 31, 2002, the Company had other long term assets of $4.4 million compared to $1.9 million at December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily due to an increase in the intangible asset associated with the minimum liability for the Companys Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. Accrued payroll and related liabilities increased $4.6 million from $6.4 million at December 31, 2001 to $11.0 million at December 31, 2002. The increase was primarily due to the timing of annual performance bonus payments. Pension and other long term liabilities decreased $0.3 million, from $9.2 million at December 31, 2001 to $8.9 million at December 31, 2002. The decrease was primarily due to the settlement of the Companys interest rate swap agreements and the reclassification to shareholders equity of a put option obligation of $1.4 million related to common stock issued for the acquisition of the Optronics Division, offset by accruals for the Companys retirement programs. The Companys investing activities have consisted primarily of expenditures for fixed assets, which totaled $6.6 million and $4.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. On March 22, 2002, the Company entered into a new Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A., KeyBank, N.A., and Union Bank of California, N.A. The agreement provides for a $35 million, three year revolving line of credit with an option for an additional $25 million during the first two years. Under the Credit Agreement, borrowings will bear interest based upon the prime lending rate of the Bank of America or Eurodollar rates with a provision for a spread over such rates based upon the Companys leverage ratio. At December 31, 2002, the interest rate ranged from 3.01% to 4.25%. The Credit Agreement contains five financial covenants that require the maintenance of certain fixed charge and leverage ratios in addition to minimum levels of EBITDA and consolidated net worth and a maximum level of capital expenditures. The Credit Agreement is collateralized by substantially all assets of the Company. At December 31, 2002, the Company had no amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement and was in compliance with all covenants. The Company, through two of its subsidiaries, has a 60 million Swedish Kroner (approximately $6.8 million) line of credit at 4.55% and a $2 million line of credit at 6.00% at December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2002, the Company had no amounts outstanding on these lines. The 60 million Swedish Kroner line of credit is 25 Table of Contents secured primarily by accounts receivable and inventories of the applicable subsidiary and is subject to automatic renewal on an annual basis. The $2 million line of credit is secured by substantially all assets of the applicable subsidiary and is subject to renegotiation annually. At the present, we do not have any significant capital commitments for the 2003 fiscal year. Consequently, we anticipate our cash requirements to be primarily related to the funding of our operating activities. With the cash we have recently generated by our operating activities and the additional funds available through our credit agreements, we believe we have sufficient resources available to meet our cash requirements. However, significant changes in those anticipated cash requirements or significant changes in business conditions that could negatively impact the generation of cash from operating activities could require the Company to seek additional financing from other sources. Possible changes in business conditions are discussed in more detail in the section entitled Risk Factors located herein. The Companys off balance sheet arrangements are limited to operating rents and leases on certain facilities and equipment and are expensed as incurred. As of December 31, 2002, the future annual minimal rental payments required under non cancelable leases total $4.8 million in 2003, $4.6 million in 2004, $2.6 million in 2005, $1.1 million in 2006 and $0.8 million in 2007. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed in the Forward Looking Statements section provided at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. In addition, you should know that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Unforeseen risks could arise and problems or issues that we now view as minor could become more significant. If we were unable to adequately respond to any risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurances that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will work. Fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our quarterly and annual operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. As a result of the fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Factors that may affect our future operating results include: The timing, number and size of orders from, and shipments to, our customers, as well as the relative mix of those orders; A significant portion of our sales is made in the last month of each quarter, with sales frequently concentrated in the last week or days of the quarter; The timing and market acceptance of our or our competitors new products, product enhancements or technologies; The timing of the release of government funds for procurement of our products; Changes in our or our competitors pricing policies; The timing and amount of any inventory write downs; Our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of critical components; Foreign currency fluctuations; Costs associated with the acquisition of other businesses, product lines or technologies; 26 Table of Contents Our ability to integrate acquired businesses, product lines or technologies; and General economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. Seasonal fluctuations in our operating results, particularly the increase in sales we generally experience every year in the fourth quarter, result from: The seasonal pattern of contracting by the US and certain foreign governments; The frequent requirement of international customers to take delivery of equipment prior to January due to funding considerations; and The tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize yearly capital budgets prior to expiration. We have had difficulties managing our growth. We have grown rapidly from 313 employees in 1993 to 838 employees as of December 31, 2002. Our annual revenue during that period grew from $40 million to $261 million and our operations became global in nature. In the past, we experienced problems in developing and implementing a financial reporting and controls system commensurate with the substantial growth and increased complexity of our business. We have taken a number of steps to improve our controls and systems, including the implementation of a new set of reporting and control procedures and protocols and the retention of a new executive management team and financial reporting personnel. However, if these and other measures we take are inadequate to address the growth we are continuing to experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are under a Cease and Desist Order from the SEC, a violation of which could harm our business. On June 8, 2000, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) issued a formal order of investigation of the Company and certain officers, directors, employees and other individuals presently and formerly associated with the Company to determine whether any violations of the federal securities laws occurred during 1998 and 1999. The investigation relates to the Companys revenue recognition policies, accounting controls, financial reports and other public disclosures during that time period. Pursuant to an offer of settlement submitted by the Company, on September 30, 2002, the SEC instituted and simultaneously settled a proceeding against the Company under Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). Without admitting or denying the allegations of the SECs order, the Company agreed to the entry of an order requiring that it cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of the antifraud provisions of the Securities Act and the antifraud, periodic reporting, record keeping and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws set forth in Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b 5, 12b 20, 13a 1 and 13a 13 thereunder. The Company incurred no financial fine or penalty under the terms of settlement. The SECs order states that the Company materially overstated its earnings before income taxes for each of the quarters of 1998 and 1999 as well as for fiscal year 1998, and that the Companys revenue recognition practices resulted in material misstatements and omissions in the financial statements contained in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10 K as originally filed for the year ended December 31, 1998 and the Companys Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q as originally filed for each of the first three quarters of both 1998 and 1999. In 2000 and 2001, the Company restated its financial statements for 1998 and 1999. No further restatements of the Companys financial statements are required by the order, and the Company does not expect that the entry of the order will have a material adverse impact on its financial condition or results of operations. Should the Company be found to have violated the terms of Commissions order in the future, it may be subject to further enforcement action, including legal action imposing injunctive relief and assessing fines or penalties, which could have a material impact on our business. 27 Table of Contents A reduction in government purchasing or our inability to act as a US Government contractor could significantly decrease revenue. The government procurement process is complex and highly competitive. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to US and foreign government agencies and our business will continue to be substantially dependent upon such sales. No sales to a single agency of the US Government accounted for more than 10% of our revenue last year, but aggregate sales to US Government agencies accounted for 21.7% of our revenue for 2001 and 24.7% of our revenue for 2002. Accordingly, our results of operations would be adversely impacted by governmental spending cuts and general budgetary constraints. Further, even though most of our government sales are not made for defense applications, a significant reduction in purchases of thermal imaging systems for defense applications could result in certain of our competitors committing more attention and resources to non defense applications, thereby exposing us to greater competitive pressures in our primary markets. In addition, our ability to do business with the US Government is conditioned upon our continuing eligibility to act as a federal contractor. A significant decline in our sales to US or foreign governments or our disqualification from making such sales for any reason would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to reduce our costs quickly enough if our sales decline. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales, and these expenses are largely fixed, particularly in the short term. In addition, to enable us to promptly fill orders, we maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials. As a result, we commit to considerable costs in advance of anticipated sales. Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales. Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write downs and write offs. As a result, we may not carry adequate reserves to offset such write downs or write offs. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to the rapid technological change in the markets in which we compete. The market for thermal imaging equipment is characterized by rapid technological developments and frequent new product introductions, enhancements and modifications. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to develop new technologies that anticipate changing customer requirements. We may need to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to develop and introduce new products and enhancements. If we fail to timely develop and introduce new technologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. From time to time, we or our competitors may announce new products, product enhancements or technological innovations that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycles of our products and that may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products, resulting in inventory obsolescence. We must successfully introduce new or enhanced products to be successful. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to improve our existing products and to develop new products using the latest technology that can satisfy customer requirements. For example, our near term success will depend on the continued acceptance of the Star SAFIRE Imaging product line and the P Series and E Series Thermography product lines, sales of which we expect to generate a substantial amount of our annual revenue. We are also investing a significant amount of our financial resources in the enhancement of some of our other existing products. We cannot be certain that we will successfully complete these enhancements within the necessary time period or that customers will accept our new products, or any future products. Our failure to complete the enhancement of these products or the failure of our current or future products to gain or maintain market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Competition in the market for thermal imaging equipment is intense and our failure to compete effectively would adversely affect our business. Competition in the markets for our products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product features, reliability and price. Additionally, our products compete indirectly with numerous other products, such as image intensifiers and low light cameras, for limited military and governmental funds. Finally, many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development and marketing resources than we do. All of these factors result in greater challenges from our existing competitors as well as increasing competition from new competitors and require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on sole source and limited source suppliers of components of our products exposes us to risks that could result in delays in satisfying customer demand, increased costs and loss of revenue. We rely on a number of sole source and limited source suppliers to provide certain key components for our products. Accordingly, we could experience a shortage in the supply of some of our components. In particular, we have a contract with BAE Systems (BAE) for the supply of uncooled detectors for integration into our P Series, E Series and FireFLIR product lines. BAE is currently one of three large producers of specialized uncooled detectors. Subject to certain exceptions, the contract gives us the exclusive right to purchase uncooled detectors for use in the commercial market and a limited, non exclusive right to purchase uncooled detectors for use in the government market. Under the contract, we have the corresponding obligation to purchase uncooled detectors solely from BAE for certain defined commercial applications. Currently, the P Series, E Series and other ThermaCAM series of hand held products, ThermoVision 2000, ThermoVision Sentry and FireFLIR are our only products that use the BAE detectors. However, we intend to use uncooled detectors supplied by BAE in other products. The contract provides for the monthly delivery of a fixed number of uncooled detectors, which may be increased or decreased by us within certain limits. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in the event that either (i) the number of detectors delivered to us under the contract is insufficient to satisfy our requirements or (ii) we are obligated to purchase detectors in excess of the number we require. The contract covers the purchase of a fixed aggregate number of units. After expiration of the contract, we may not be able to successfully negotiate a new contract with BAE or another company for uncooled detectors. Failure by us to renew the contract or identify another source of uncooled detectors would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Based on past experience, we expect to occasionally receive late deliveries or to experience inadequate supplies of certain components. If the components provided by BAE or any other significant supplier were to become unavailable, our manufacturing operations would be disrupted. Unless we could identify and qualify acceptable replacement components or redesign our products with different components, we might not be able to obtain necessary components on a timely basis or at acceptable prices. Any extended interruption in the supply of sole or limited source components would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key senior management and qualified technical and sales personnel. Our future success depends on the efforts and continued services of our key executives and our ability to attract and retain qualified technical and sales personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key technical and sales personnel or our ability to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified technical and sales personnel as may be required in the future. We also cannot assure that employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents Any acquisition or equity investment we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past, and may in the future, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or enter into joint ventures. We may experience difficulties in assimilating the personnel, operations, products and technology acquired in any future acquisitions or investments we make. Additionally, we could lose the key personnel from any of the companies that we acquire, incur unanticipated costs and assume new liabilities. Any of these difficulties could disrupt our on going business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Furthermore, we might have to incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of any additional equity securities could dilute our existing shareholders ownership. No assurance can be given that we will realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or that such acquisition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks from international sales and currency fluctuations. We market and sell our products worldwide and international sales have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, international sales accounted for 44.0% and 47.0%, respectively, of our total revenue. Our international sales are subject to a number of risks, including: The imposition of governmental controls; Restrictions on the export of critical technology; Trade restrictions; Difficulty in collecting receivables; Inadequate protection of intellectual property; Labor union activities; Changes in tariffs and taxes; Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; Political and economic instability; and General economic conditions. Historically, currency fluctuations have affected our operating results. Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales are denominated or costs incurred have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results. We seek to reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations by denominating the majority of our international sales in US dollars. With respect to international sales denominated in US dollars, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the US dollar could make our products less price competitive. No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in maintaining and obtaining the necessary licenses to conduct operations abroad, and the US Congress may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments. Licenses are required from US government agencies under the Export Administration Act, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 and the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 for export of many of our products. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining these licenses. Failure to obtain or delays in obtaining these licenses would prevent or delay us from selling our products outside the US and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Our products may suffer from defects or errors leading to substantial damage or warranty claims. Our products use complex system designs and components that may contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products or release new versions. While we have not yet had to recall a product, if any of our products are defective, we might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such an event could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, product defects could result in substantial product liability. We maintain product liability insurance but cannot be certain that it is adequate or will remain available on acceptable terms. Our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights and avoid infringing the rights of others could harm our competitive position and our business. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing the rights of others. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Most of our proprietary rights are held in confidence as trade secrets and are not covered by patents, making them more difficult to protect. Although we currently hold US patents covering certain aspects of our technologies and products, we cannot be certain that we will obtain additional patents or trademarks on our technology, products and trade names. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our patents or trademarks will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors. Likewise, we cannot be certain that measures taken to protect our proprietary rights will adequately deter their misappropriation or disclosure. Any failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, because intellectual property does not necessarily represent a barrier to entry into the thermal imaging industry, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our competitive advantage or that competitors will not develop capabilities equal or superior to ours. Litigation over patents and other intellectual property is common in our industry. We cannot be sure that we will not be the subject of patent or other litigation in the future. Defending intellectual property lawsuits and related legal and administrative proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort of our personnel. An adverse determination in a patent suit or in any other proceeding to which we may be a party could subject us to significant liabilities. An adverse determination could require us to seek licenses from third parties. If licenses were not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our business could be harmed. We would be harmed if we were unable to use one of our facilities. We manufacture our products at facilities located in Portland, Boston and Stockholm. Our inability to continue to manufacture our products at one or more of our facilities as a result of, for example, a prolonged power shortage, fire or other natural disaster, would prevent us from supplying products to our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Articles, Bylaws and Shareholder Rights Plan as well as Oregon law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Provisions of our Second Restated Articles of Incorporation, First Restated Bylaws, Oregon law and our Shareholder Rights Plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Companys exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to its credit agreements. The credit agreements are at variable rates. A change in interest rates on the credit agreements impacts the interest incurred and cash flows. At December 31, 2002, no amounts were outstanding on any of the Companys credit agreements; consequently, no sensitivity analysis is presented. The Company has assets, liabilities, and inventory purchase commitments outside the United States that are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Similarly, certain revenues from products sold in foreign countries are sold in foreign currencies. Assets and liabilities located outside the United States are primarily located in Sweden and the United Kingdom. The Companys investment in foreign subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the US dollar are generally considered long term. The Company does not engage in forward currency exchange contracts to reduce its economic exposure to changes in exchange rates. Because the Company markets, sells and licenses our products throughout the world, it could be significantly affected by weak economic conditions in foreign markets that could reduce demand for its products. Our net investment in foreign subsidiaries translated into US dollars using the period end exchange rates at December 31, 2002, was approximately $38.4 million. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates would be approximately $3.8 million at December 31, 2002. The Company has no plans of liquidating any of its foreign subsidiaries, and therefore, foreign exchange rate gains or losses on our foreign investments are reflected as a cumulative translation adjustment and do not reduce our reported net earnings. 
 
