ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview FLIR was founded in 1978, originally providing infrared imaging systems that were installed on vehicles for use in conducting energy audits of neighborhoods by helping to determine whether there was any abnormal leakage of heat coming from the doors, windows, walls and roofs of each house. As demand for that application declined, the Company began to focus on other applications and markets for its technology, in particular, designing and selling stabilized thermal imaging systems for aircraft used by law enforcement. Since then, the Company has continued to develop thermal imaging products for a growing number of applications and has now become one of the world leaders in the design, manufacture and marketing of thermal imaging and stabilized camera systems for a wide variety of applications in the commercial, industrial and government markets, internationally as well as domestically. Our business is now organized around two principal business segments, Thermography and Imaging. The Thermography market primarily consists of the use of hand held thermal imaging systems that can detect and measure minute temperature differences, which is useful for a wide variety of industrial and commercial applications. Uses for our Thermography products include predictive and preventative maintenance, process control, condition monitoring, moisture detection and scientific analysis. In 2002, we introduced a new inexpensive product line, known as the E Series, that has increased the number of markets and applications that Thermography serves. Our Thermography products are produced at our facilities in Sweden and Santa Barbara. A growing distribution network has enabled us to penetrate existing and developing markets and applications worldwide. Our Imaging business offers a wide array of products, all of which allow the user to see in total darkness, and through many types of obscurants, such as smoke, haze and most types of fog. Product offerings include hand held and fixed mounted products for ground, airborne and maritime applications. Applications for our Imaging products include force protection, counter terrorism, search and rescue, perimeter security, navigation safety, law enforcement, narcotics detection, maritime and border patrol, electronic news gathering, anti piracy and firefighting. Our Imaging products are primarily produced at our Portland, Boston, Santa Barbara and Sweden facilities. A substantial portion of our revenue in the Imaging business is derived from sales to government agencies and we are continuing to expand our military program business, both in the United States and internationally. On January 6, 2004, we completed the acquisition of Indigo Systems Corporation (Indigo) which is located in Goleta (Santa Barbara), California. Indigo is a leading producer of infrared detectors, infrared cameras, and camera subsystems. The acquisition of Indigo provides us with the ability to design and produce infrared detectors for both our Imaging and Thermography business. Indigo also allows us to expand our presence in certain markets, including high end scientific cameras, OEMs and certain military program markets. International revenue accounted for approximately 42.0%, 43.2% and 44.0% of our revenue in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of revenue. With the production and distribution of our Thermography products in Sweden contributing a large volume of sales denominated in foreign currencies, we have exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations and changing dynamics of foreign competitiveness based on variations in the value of the US dollar relative to other currencies. During 2004, there were significant fluctuations in the values of the major currencies in which we conduct business, in particular, a weakening of the US dollar. The impact of those fluctuations is reflected throughout our consolidated financial statements, but in aggregate, did not have a material impact on our results of operations. The Company typically experiences longer payment cycles on its international sales, which can have an adverse impact upon the Companys liquidity. In addition, substantial portions of the Companys operations are conducted outside the United States, including manufacturing in Sweden and sales operations worldwide. 21 Table of Contents International sales and operations may be subject to risks such as the imposition of governmental controls, export license requirements, restrictions on the export of critical technology, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, labor union activities, changes in tariffs and taxes, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, and general economic conditions. The Company experiences fluctuations in orders and sales due to seasonal variations and customer sales cycles, such as the seasonal pattern of contracting by the US and certain foreign governments, the frequent requirement by certain customers to take delivery of equipment prior to the end of December due to funding considerations, and the tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize annual capital budgets prior to expiration. Such events have resulted and could continue to result in certain fluctuations in quarterly results in the future. As a result of such quarterly fluctuations in operating results, the Company believes that quarter to quarter comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, investments, goodwill impairment, warranty obligations, contingencies and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. We believe the following critical accounting policies and the related judgments and estimates affect the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition. The majority of our revenue is recognized upon delivery of the product to the customer at a fixed or determinable price and with a reasonable assurance of collection, passage of title to the customer as indicated by the shipping terms and fulfillment of all significant obligations, pursuant to guidance provided by Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Revenue Recognition (SAB 104), issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission in December 2003. We typically design, market and sell our products as commercial, off the shelf products. Many of our Imaging customers, particularly those who use our airborne systems, request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that we offer. In general, our revenue arrangements do not involve acceptance provisions based upon customer specified acceptance criteria. In those limited circumstances when customer specified acceptance criteria exist, revenue is deferred until customer acceptance if we cannot demonstrate the system meets those specifications prior to shipment. For any contracts with multiple elements (i.e., training, installation, additional parts) undelivered at the end of a reporting period, we recognize revenue on the delivered elements only after we have determined that the delivered elements have stand alone value and any undelivered elements have objective and reliable evidence of fair value. Judgments are required in evaluating the credit worthiness of our customers. Credit is not extended to customers and revenue is not recognized until we have determined that the risk of uncollectibility is minimal. We also have a limited number of design and development contracts, principally with governmental customers, that are accounted for in accordance with Statement of Position 81 1, Accounting for Performance of Construction Type and Certain Production Type Contracts (SOP 81 1). Under SOP 81 1, revenues and related costs are recognized using the percentage of completion method. 22 Table of Contents Allowance for doubtful accounts. Our policy is to maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Credit limits are established through a process of reviewing the financial history and stability of each customer. Where appropriate, we obtain credit rating reports and financial statements of the customer when determining or modifying their credit limits. We regularly evaluate the collectibility of our trade receivable balances based on a combination of factors. When a customers account balance becomes past due, we initiate dialogue with the customer to determine the cause. If it is determined that the customer will be unable to meet its financial obligation to us, such as in the case of a bankruptcy filing, deterioration in the customers operating results or financial position or other material events impacting their business, we record a specific allowance to reduce the related receivable to the amount we expect to recover given all information presently available. Actual write offs during the past three years have been insignificant. We also record an allowance for all other customers based on certain other factors including the length of time the receivables are past due and historical collection experience with individual customers. As of December 31, 2004, our accounts receivable balance of $116.3 million is reported net of allowances for doubtful accounts of $1.6 million. We believe our reported allowances at December 31, 2004, are adequate. If the financial conditions of those customers were to deteriorate, however, resulting in their inability to make payments, we may need to record additional allowances that would result in additional selling, general and administrative expenses being recorded for the period in which such determination is made. Inventory write downs. As a designer and manufacturer of high technology infrared systems, we are exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our inventories becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. These factors include, but are not limited to, technological changes in our markets, our ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures in products and prices, and the availability of key components from our suppliers. Our policy is to establish inventory write downs when conditions exist that suggest that our inventories may be in excess of anticipated demand or are obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate the ability to realize the value of our inventories based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Purchasing requirements and alternative usage avenues are explored within these processes to mitigate inventory exposure. When recorded, our write downs are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventories to their net realizable value. As of December 31, 2004, our inventories of $98.3 million are stated net of inventory write downs of $14.3 million. If actual demand for our products deteriorates or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional inventory write downs may be required. Cost basis Investments. FLIR has invested in two third party entities. The investments are accounted for on a cost basis since we do not have controlling interests in these entities nor do we have the ability to exercise significant influence on them. As of December 31, 2004, we have carrying values of these investments of approximately $1.9 million. We periodically review the investments for impairment to determine if events or changes in the business conditions of those entities indicate the carrying value of our investments may not be recoverable. These reviews may be based upon factors that include, but are not limited to, hypothetical liquidations of the investees at book value and current or recent financings received by the investees. If future changes in business results or market conditions indicate that any impairment, other than temporary, exists on these investments, we may need to record reserves against those investments. Goodwill impairment. The Company recorded goodwill in connection with our acquisition of AGEMA Infrared Systems AB in 1997 and our acquisition of Indigo in 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2002, we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). SFAS 142 changed the accounting for goodwill from an amortization method to an impairment only approach. We review goodwill in June of each year, or on an interim basis if required, for impairment to determine if events or changes in business conditions indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Such reviews assess the fair value of the assets based upon our estimates of the future 23 Table of Contents cash flows we expect the assets to generate within the boundary of the overall market capitalization of the Company. Our current review indicates that no adjustments are necessary for the goodwill assets, which have a carrying value of $149.5 million as of December 31, 2004. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources in the future which could result in an impairment of goodwill. Product warranties. Our products are sold with warranty provisions that require us to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of our products over a specified period of time, generally twelve months, at no cost to our customers. Our policy is to establish warranty reserves at levels that represent our estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements at the time that revenue is recognized. We believe that our recorded liability of $5.5 million at December 31, 2004, is adequate to cover our future cost of materials, labor and overhead for the servicing of our products sold through that date. If actual product failures or material or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, our warranty liability would need to be revised accordingly. Contingencies. We are subject to the possibility of loss contingencies arising in the normal course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted. Income taxes. We record our deferred tax assets at an amount that we determine is more likely than not to be realized in the future. Valuation allowances against deferred tax assets are recorded when a determination is made that the deferred tax assets are not likely to be realized in the future. In making that determination, we estimate our future taxable income based upon historical operating results and external market data. Future levels of taxable income are dependent upon, but not limited to, general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other factors beyond our control. As of December 31, 2004, we have determined that no valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets of $22.3 million is required. If we should determine that we may be unable to realize our deferred tax assets to the extent reported, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination is made. Results of Operations The following table sets forth for the indicated periods certain items as a percentage of revenue. Year Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 48.4 46.9 47.5 Gross profit 51.6 53.1 52.5 Operating expenses: Research and development 9.5 9.8 10.3 Selling, general and administrative 19.5 20.9 22.8 Total operating expenses 29.0 30.7 33.1 Earnings from operations 22.6 22.4 19.4 Interest expense 1.7 1.6 0.8 Interest income (0.1 ) (0.8 ) (0.2 ) Other expense, net 0.3 1.2 0.1 Earnings before income taxes 20.7 20.4 18.7 Income tax provision 5.9 6.1 2.8 Net earnings 14.8 % 14.3 % 15.9 % 24 Table of Contents Years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 Revenue. Revenue for 2004 totaled $482.7 million, an increase of 54.7% over the $312.0 million in revenue in 2003. Revenue from the Imaging business segment increased 65.4% from $193.1 million in 2003 to $319.5 million in 2004. Revenue from the Thermography business segment increased 37.3% from $118.8 million in 2003 to $163.1 million in 2004. The increase in Imaging revenue was primarily due to an increase in unit volumes arising from strong demand in virtually all markets, and to the revenue provided through our acquisition of Indigo in January. The increase in Thermography revenue was primarily due to an increase in unit volumes, particularly of E Series, P Series and A Series products, due to new and emerging markets and the increased penetration by our expanding distribution network. Revenue for 2003 totaled $312.0 million, an increase of 19.5% over the $261.1 million in revenue reported in 2002. Revenue from the Imaging business segment increased 15.5% from $167.2 million in 2002 to $193.1 million in 2003. Revenue from the Thermography business segment increased 26.7% from $93.8 million in 2002 to $118.8 million in 2003. The increase in Imaging revenue was primarily due to an increase in unit volumes, particularly in our maritime products, and a shift in the mix of shipments of our ground based, law enforcement and broadcast products to higher priced systems. The Thermography revenue increase was primarily due to an increase in unit volumes, particularly the E Series products and in the predictive maintenance market segments. The unit increases are due to increases in capital spending as worldwide economies have improved and also due to penetration into new markets and the identification of additional applications. Approximately one fifth of the increase in total revenue, as well as the increase in both segments, were due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates during 2003. International revenue in 2004 totaled $201.5 million, representing 41.8% of revenue. This compares to international revenue in 2003 which totaled $134.9 million, representing 43.2% of revenue, and $114.8 million, or 44.0% of revenue in 2002. While the sales mix between domestic and international sales may fluctuate slightly from year to year, we anticipate the mix to be approximately 55% to 60% domestic and 40% to 45% international on a long term basis. Gross profit. Gross profit in 2004 was 51.6% of revenue, compared to 53.1% in 2003. The gross profit for 2004 included $2.8 million of amortization expense attributable to developed technology intangibles acquired as part of the acquisition of Indigo and $1.3 million of expense related to the recognition of the one time stepped up values of the acquired inventories of Indigo. Without these charges, gross profit in 2004 as a percentage of revenue was 52.5%. The remaining decrease in gross profit is due to lower gross profits currently for our Indigo products and a change in the mix of revenue between the Imaging and Thermography businesses, as Thermography revenue represented 33.8% of total revenue in 2004 compared to 38.1% in 2003. We historically experience higher gross margins in our Thermography business than in our Imaging business. Offsetting a portion of these factors were manufacturing improvements and efficiencies implemented within the Imaging operations. As a percentage of revenue, gross profit in 2003 was 53.1%, compared to 52.5% in 2002. The increase in gross profit percentage was primarily due to the increase in the Thermography business over the Imaging business as a percentage of revenue. In 2003, the Thermography revenue was 38.1% of total revenue, compared to 35.9% of total revenue in 2002. The increased use of distributors, whose commissions are reported as a reduction of revenue, in the Thermography business has partially offset the increase in gross profit percentage attributable to the change in the mix between the business segments. Research and development. Research and development expenses were $45.8 million, or 9.5% of revenue, in 2004 compared to $30.7 million, or 9.8% of revenue, in 2003. The significant increase in spending in 2004 is due to the research and development expenses of Indigo and the continued growth in spending related to our existing Imaging and Thermography businesses. We believe that spending levels are sufficient to support the development of new products and the continued growth of the business. We expect research and development expenses to represent 8% to 10% of our revenue on a long term basis. Research and development expenses were $30.7 million during 2003 compared to $26.9 million in 2002. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses decreased slightly from 10.3% in 2002 to 9.8% in 2003. 25 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $94.2 million, or 19.5% of revenue in 2004 compared to $65.0 million, or 20.9% of revenue in 2003. The significant increase in spending in 2004 is due to the Indigo acquisition, including amortization expense of $2.7 million for certain customer and trademark intangible assets acquired, and due to the growth in the Companys business during the past year. The decrease in expenses as a percentage of revenue was a result of the revenue increase during the year and the ability to manage spending growth at a lower level than the revenue growth. We anticipate selling, general and administrative expenses in the future to increase at a slower rate than revenue. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased from $59.6 million, or 22.8% of revenue, in 2002 to $65.0 million, or 20.9% of revenue, in 2003. Interest expense. Interest expense totaled $8.1 million, $4.9 million and $2.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in interest from 2002 to 2004 is primarily due to the interest on the convertible notes that were issued in June 2003. Interest income. Interest income was $0.5 million, $2.4 million and $0.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The decrease in interest income in 2004 was primarily due to a decrease in invested cash as a result of the Indigo acquisition at the beginning of 2004. The increase in interest income in 2003 was due to the invested cash for the second half of the year as a result of the June issuance of the convertible notes. Other expense. The Company reported other expenses of $1.6 million, $3.6 million and $0.1 million for 2004, 2003 and 2002. The increase in other expense in 2004 and 2003 over 2002 was due to currency losses on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Companys European operations as the European currencies strengthened significantly against the US dollar during 2004 and 2003. Income taxes. The Companys income tax provision was $28.4 million, $19.2 million and $7.3 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The effective tax rates for 2004, 2003 and 2002 were 28.4%, 30.0% and 15.0%, respectively. The mix in taxable income between the Companys US and foreign operations impacted the income tax provisions in each of these years. The lower rate in 2002 was a result of the change in the Companys valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets in 2002 related to our assessment of the ability to realize the deferred tax assets generated by prior tax loss benefits. At December 31, 2004, the Company had US tax net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) totaling $63.0 million which expire in the years 2019 through 2024. Additionally, the Company has various US tax credits available aggregating $11.3 million, which expire in the years 2007 through 2024. The Company has generated deductions for US tax purposes related to the exercise of stock options that have served to offset the reductions in its NOLs. The utilization of these stock option exercise deductions is accounted for as a direct increase in additional paid in capital rather than as a reduction in the Companys tax provision. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 Accounting for Income Taxes requires that the tax benefits described above be recorded as assets to the extent that management assesses the utilization of such assets to be more likely than not; otherwise, a valuation allowance is required to be recorded. Based on this guidance, management believes that the deferred tax assets of $22.3 million reflected on the December 31, 2004 consolidated balance sheet, is realizable based on future forecasts of taxable income over a relatively short time horizon and has not recorded a valuation allowance. Future levels of taxable income are dependent upon general economic conditions, including but not limited to continued growth of the Thermography and Imaging markets, competitive pressures on sales and gross margins, successful implementation of tax planning strategies, and other factors beyond the Companys control. Absolute assurance can not be given that sufficient taxable income will be generated for full utilization of the deferred tax assets. Accordingly, the Company may be required to record a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets in future periods if its future forecasts of taxable income are not achieved. 26 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2004, the Company had $120.7 million in cash and cash equivalents compared to $198.0 million at December 31, 2003. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents is primarily from cash used for the acquisition of Indigo and other capital expenditures, partially offset by the cash provided from operations. Cash provided by operating activities in 2004 totaled $75.1 million compared to $27.2 million in 2003. The increase in cash provided from operating activities was primarily due to an increase in net earnings in 2004 and the increase in the income tax benefit related to the exercise of stock options. At December 31, 2004, the Company had accounts receivable in the amount of $116.3 million compared to $79.3 million at December 31, 2003. The increase of $36.9 million in the receivable balance was primarily due to the inclusion of accounts receivable at Indigo of $11.3 million at December 31, 2004 and an increase in revenue in the fourth quarter of 2004 compared to the fourth quarter of 2003. At December 31, 2004, the Company had inventories of $98.3 million compared to $76.0 million at December 31, 2003. The increase in inventories was primarily due to the inclusion of inventory at Indigo of $11.1 million at December 31, 2004 and the continued growth of the business. At December 31, 2004, the Company had prepaid expenses and other current assets of $21.8 million compared to $20.0 million at December 31, 2003. The increase was primarily due to a net increase in the number of demonstration units, offset by a decrease in supplier advances. Deferred tax assets decreased from $30.0 million at December 31, 2003 to $22.3 million at December 31, 2004. The decrease was primarily related to the deferred tax liabilities recorded in relation to the Indigo acquisition. The Companys investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2004 totaled $175.2 million, primarily arising from the acquisition of Indigo for $160.0 million, net of cash acquired, and capital expenditures of $13.9 million. Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 totaled $18.3 million, including the purchase of a new building for the Boston operations for $10.6 million. Accounts payable increased from $26.4 million at December 31, 2003 to $32.3 million at December 31, 2004. The increase relates to the increase in inventories, the general growth of the Companys business and $4.5 million of Indigos accounts payable at December 31, 2004. Accrued payroll and related liabilities increased from $12.8 million at December 31, 2003 to $22.4 million at December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily due to accrued payroll of Indigo of $2.0 million at December 31, 2004, the timing of payroll payments, and increases in commissions and incentives arising from the sales and earnings growth in 2004. Advance payments at December 31, 2004 were $5.0 million, a decrease of $7.1 million from the end of 2003. The decrease was due to revenue recorded on orders for which advance payments had been previously received, primarily in Europe. On April 28, 2004, the Company signed an amended and restated Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement) with Bank of America, N.A., Union Bank of California, N.A., and U.S. Bank National Association. The agreement provides for a $50 million, five year revolving line of credit, with an option for an additional $50 million until April 28, 2008. Under the Credit Agreement, borrowings will bear interest based upon the prime lending rate of the Bank of America or Eurodollar rates with a provision for a spread under/over such rates based upon the Companys leverage ratio. At December 31, 2004, the interest rate ranged from 3.83% to 5.00%. The Credit Agreement contains four financial covenants that require the maintenance of certain leverage ratios, in addition to minimum levels of EBITDA and consolidated net worth and a maximum level of capital expenditures, and is collateralized by substantially all assets of the Company. At December 31, 2004, the Company had no amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement and was in compliance with these four 27 Table of Contents financial covenants. The Company had $2.2 million of letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2004, which reduces the total available credit. The Company, through two of its subsidiaries, has a 40 million Swedish Kroner (approximately $6.0 million) line of credit at 2.7% and a $2 million line of credit at 6.25% at December 31, 2004. At December 31, 2004, the Company had no amounts outstanding on these lines. The 40 million Swedish Kroner line of credit is secured primarily by accounts receivable and inventories of the Companys Sweden subsidiary and is subject to automatic renewal on an annual basis. The $2 million line of credit is secured by substantially all assets of the Companys United Kingdom subsidiary and is subject to renegotiation annually. In June 2003, the Company issued $210 million of 3.0% senior convertible notes due 2023 in a private offering pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The issuance was made through an initial offering of $175 million on June 11, 2003, and the subsequent exercise in full by the underwriters of their option to purchase an additional $35 million on June 17, 2003. The net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $203.9 million. Issuance costs will be amortized over a period of seven years. Interest is payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning on December 1, 2003. The holders of the notes may convert all or some of their notes into shares of the Companys common stock at a conversion rate of 45.0612 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes prior to the maturity date in certain circumstances. The Company may redeem for cash all or part of the notes on or after June 8, 2010. The proceeds were used primarily for general corporate purposes, which included the acquisition of Indigo and other working capital and capital expenditure needs. During the quarter ended September 30, 2004, one of the terms that allow for conversion of the Companys convertible notes, as described in the prospectus, was met. The Companys stock closed at a price higher than $57.70 per share for no fewer than 20 of the last 30 trading days during the quarter ended September 30, 2004. As of December 31, 2004, no note holders have elected to convert their notes into Company stock. The Company does not anticipate any conversions before 2010. On November 5, 2004, the Company entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement to purchase a building and related land in Wilsonville, Oregon. The purchase price is $10.2 million, payable in cash, and the transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2005. We believe that our existing cash combined with the cash we anticipate to generate from operating activities, and our available credit facilities and financing available from other sources will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the foreseeable future. The Company does not have any significant commitments nor are we aware of any significant events or conditions that are likely to have a material impact on the Companys liquidity. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2004, we leased our non owned facilities under operating lease agreements. We also leased certain operating machinery and equipment and office equipment under operating lease agreements. Except for these operating lease agreements, we do not have any off balance sheet arrangements that have or are likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2004, the Companys contractual obligations were as follows (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 Year 1 3Years 3 5 Years More than5 Years Long term debt $ 210,185 $ 105 $ 64 $ 14 $ 210,002 Operating leases 34,425 6,950 12,289 9,992 5,194 Post retirement obligations 9,745 340 1,399 1,806 6,200 $ 254,355 $ 7,395 $ 13,752 $ 11,812 $ 221,396 28 Table of Contents Payments for the Companys post retirement obligations are based upon actuarial assumptions. Actual payments may differ in terms of both timing and amounts. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed in the Forward Looking Statements section provided at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. In addition, you should know that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Unforeseen risks could arise and problems or issues that we now view as minor could become more significant. If we were unable to adequately respond to any risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurances that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will work. Fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our quarterly and annual operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Due to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Factors that may affect our future operating results include: the timing, number and size of orders from, and shipments to, our customers, as well as the relative mix of those orders; variations in the volume of orders for a particular product or product line in a particular quarter, which can be substantial, may result in variations in revenue and gross margins; a significant portion of our sales are made in the last month of each quarter, with sales frequently concentrated in the last week or days of the quarter; the timing and market acceptance of our or our competitors new products, product enhancements or technologies; our ability to obtain sufficient supplies of critical components; the timing of the release of government funds for procurement of our products; changes in our or our competitors pricing policies; our ability to collect on trade receivables; the timing and amount of any inventory write downs; foreign currency fluctuations; the ability to secure export licenses for international sales orders; costs and risks associated with the acquisition and integration of other businesses, product lines or technologies; and general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. Seasonal fluctuations in our operating results, particularly the increase in sales we generally experience every year in the fourth quarter, result from: the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States and certain foreign governments; the frequent requirement of international customers to take delivery of equipment prior to January due to funding considerations; and the tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize annual capital budgets prior to expiration. 29 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully integrate Indigo Systems, or any future acquisition or equity investment, into our operations, thereby disrupting our business and harming our financial condition and results of operations. In January 2004, we completed the acquisition of Indigo Systems Corporation, which is located in Goleta (Santa Barbara), California. We have begun to integrate Indigos cooled and uncooled infrared detectors into our Thermography and Imaging products, thereby lowering our product costs, and have begun selling some of Indigos infrared camera cores and camera systems. This integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies is typically difficult, time consuming and subject to a number of risks. For example, the integration of Indigo infrared detectors into our existing products requires extensive engineering and manufacturing effort that may take longer than anticipated or may not be successful. Further, the integration of products and product lines requires the coordination of research and development, manufacturing, sales, marketing and service efforts between the Company and Indigo or any future acquisitions. Because the Indigo acquisition occurred last year, we have had limited experience managing their operations. Additionally, we could lose key personnel from Indigo or any future companies that we acquire, incur unanticipated costs and assume new liabilities. Any of these difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and decrease our revenue. Furthermore, we might have to incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of any additional equity securities could dilute our then existing shareholders ownership. While there are currently no such acquisitions planned or being negotiated, we frequently evaluate strategic opportunities available to us and may in the near or long term pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses, product lines or technologies. As a result, no assurance can be given that we will realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Indigo, or any future acquisition or equity investment, or that any such acquisition or investment will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are under a Cease and Desist Order from the SEC, a violation of which could harm our business. On June 8, 2000, the SEC issued a formal order of investigation of us and certain officers, directors, employees and other individuals presently and formerly associated with us to determine whether any violations of the federal securities laws occurred during 1998 and 1999. The investigation relates to our revenue recognition policies, accounting controls, financial reports and other public disclosures during that time period. Pursuant to an offer of settlement submitted by us on September 30, 2002, the SEC instituted and simultaneously settled a proceeding against us under Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and Section 21C of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Without admitting or denying the allegations of the SECs order, we agreed to the entry of an order requiring that we cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of the antifraud provisions of the Securities Act and the antifraud, periodic reporting, record keeping and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws set forth in Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b 5, 12b 20, 13a 1 and 13a 13 thereunder. We incurred no financial fine or penalty under the terms of settlement. The SECs order cited material misstatements and omissions in the financial statements originally filed for 1998 and 1999. In 2000 and 2001, we restated our financial statements for 1998 and 1999. No further restatements of our financial statements were required by the order, and the entry of the order did not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Should we be found to have violated the terms of the SECs order in the future, we may be subject to further enforcement action, including legal action imposing injunctive relief and assessing fines or penalties, which could have a material impact on our business. A reduction in government purchasing or our inability to act as a United States Government contractor could significantly decrease revenue. The government procurement process is complex and highly competitive. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to United States and foreign government agencies, and our business will continue 30 Table of Contents to be substantially dependent upon such sales. No sales to a single agency of the United States Government accounted for more than 10% of our revenue, but aggregate sales to United States Government agencies accounted for 40% and 26% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Accordingly, our results of operations would be adversely impacted by governmental spending cuts and general budgetary constraints. In addition, we are seeking to secure additional government contracts for the design and long term supply of commercially developed military qualified thermal imaging devices. If we are not successful in winning such contracts, or do not perform our obligations on any such contracts we do secure, our future operating results may be adversely affected. Our ability to do business with the United States Government is conditioned upon our continuing eligibility to act as a federal contractor. A significant decline in our sales to United States or foreign governments or our disqualification from making such sales for any reason would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to the rapid technological change in the markets in which we compete. The market for thermal imaging equipment is characterized by rapid technological developments and frequent new product introductions, enhancements and modifications. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to develop new technologies that anticipate changing customer requirements. We may need to make substantial capital expenditures and incur significant research and development costs to develop and introduce new products and enhancements. If we fail to develop and introduce new technologies in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. From time to time, we or our competitors may announce new products, product enhancements or technological innovations that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycles of our products and that may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products, resulting in inventory obsolescence. We must successfully introduce new or enhanced products and manage the costs associated with producing numerous product lines to be successful. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to improve our existing products and to develop new products using the latest technology that can satisfy customer requirements. For example, our near term success will depend on the continued acceptance of our major product lines such as the Star SAFIRE Imaging product line and the ThermaCAM&reg; P Series and E Series Thermography product lines, sales of which we expect to generate a substantial amount of our revenue. We are also investing a significant amount of our financial resources in the enhancement of some of our other existing products such as our search and surveillance products. We cannot be certain that we will successfully complete these enhancements within the necessary time period or that customers will accept our new products, or any future products. In addition, the complexity associated with the production of multiple product lines may inhibit our ability to maintain or improve our gross margins. Our failure to complete the enhancement of these products, the failure of our current or future products to gain or maintain market acceptance or our failure to successfully manage our cost of production could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the markets for thermal imaging equipment is intense and our failure to compete effectively would adversely affect our business. Competition in the markets for our products is intense. The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product features, performance, reliability and price. Additionally, our products compete indirectly with numerous other products, such as image intensifiers and low light cameras, for limited governmental and military funds. Finally, many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development and marketing resources than we do. All of these factors result in greater challenges from our existing competitors as well as increasing competition from new competitors and require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, 31 Table of Contents research and development and new product innovation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete effectively in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on sole source and limited source suppliers of components for our products and our transition to manufacturing our own cooled and uncooled infrared detectors exposes us to risks that could result in delays in satisfying customer demand, increased costs and loss of revenue. We currently rely on a number of sole source and limited source suppliers to provide certain key components for our products. We have completed the acquisition of Indigo Systems Corporation, which manufactures cooled and uncooled infrared detectors, and intend to use those detectors in our Thermography and Imaging products. During this transition to the use of Indigos infrared detectors, we could experience a shortage in the supply of some of our components including cooled and uncooled infrared detectors. A prior contract that we had with BAE Systems (BAE) gave us the exclusive right to purchase uncooled detectors for use in the commercial market and a limited, non exclusive right to purchase uncooled detectors for use in the government market. With the conclusion of this contract, BAE is no longer bound by this exclusivity requirement for the commercial market and we may not be able to successfully transition to the use of uncooled detectors from Indigo. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in the event that we are unable to transition to uncooled detectors manufactured by Indigo within the expected time period or in the event the detectors we manufacture at Indigo or receive from another supplier are defective or they do not otherwise meet our performance standards. Failure by us to transition to the use of cooled and uncooled detectors made by Indigo, or identify another source of uncooled detectors in a timely manner, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Based on past experience, we expect to occasionally receive late deliveries or to experience inadequate supplies of certain components. If the components manufactured by Indigo or provided by any other significant supplier become unavailable, our manufacturing operations would be disrupted. Unless we have sufficient lead time and are otherwise able to identify and qualify acceptable replacement components or redesign our products with different components, we might not be able to obtain necessary components on a timely basis or at acceptable prices. Any extended interruption in the supply of sole or limited source components would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct operations abroad, and the United States Congress may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments. Export licenses are required from United States Government agencies under the Export Administration Act, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 and the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 for export of many of our products. We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining these licenses. Recently, heightened government scrutiny of export licenses for products in our market has resulted in lengthened review periods for our license applications. Failure to obtain or delays in obtaining these licenses would prevent or delay us from selling our products outside the United States and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to reduce our costs quickly enough if our sales decline. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales, and these expenses are largely fixed, particularly in the short term. In addition, to enable us to promptly fill orders, we maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials. As a result, we commit to considerable costs in advance of anticipated sales. Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales. Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write downs and write offs. We may not carry adequate reserves to offset such write downs or write offs. 32 Table of Contents Our future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key senior management and qualified technical and sales personnel. Our future success depends in part on the efforts and continued services of our key executives and our ability to attract and retain qualified technical and sales personnel. Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key senior managerial, technical and sales personnel or our ability to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that may be required in the future. We also cannot assure that employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have significantly increased our indebtedness as a result of the sale of the convertible notes. In June 2003, we issued $210 million of 3.0% senior convertible notes due 2023 in a private offering pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933. As a result of this indebtedness, our principal and interest payment obligations have increased substantially. Increased debt could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. We face risks from international sales and currency fluctuations. We market and sell our products worldwide and international sales have accounted for, and are expected to continue to account for, a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, international sales accounted for 42% and 43%, respectively, of our total revenue. Our international sales are subject to a number of risks, including: the imposition of governmental controls; restrictions on the export of critical technology; trade restrictions; difficulty in collecting receivables; inadequate protection of intellectual property; labor union activities; changes in tariffs and taxes; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; political and economic instability; and general economic conditions. Historically, currency fluctuations have affected our operating results. Changes in the value of foreign currencies in which our sales are denominated or costs incurred have in the past caused, and could in the future cause, fluctuations in our operating results. We seek to reduce our exposure to currency fluctuations by denominating, where possible, our international sales in United States dollars. With respect to international sales denominated in United States dollars, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar could make our products less price competitive. No assurance can be given that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products may suffer from defects or errors leading to substantial damage or warranty claims. We include complex system designs and components in our products that may contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products or release new versions. While we have not 33 Table of Contents yet had to recall a product, if any of our products are defective, we might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such an event could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, product defects could result in substantial product liability. We maintain product liability insurance but cannot be certain that it is adequate or will remain available on acceptable terms. Our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights and avoid infringing the rights of others could harm our competitive position and our business. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing the rights of others. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Most of our proprietary rights are held in confidence as trade secrets and are not covered by patents, making them more difficult to protect. Although we currently hold United States patents covering certain aspects of our technologies and products, we cannot be certain that we will obtain additional patents or trademarks on our technology, products and trade names. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our patents or trademarks will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors. Likewise, we cannot be certain that measures taken to protect our proprietary rights will adequately deter their misappropriation or disclosure. Any failure by us to meaningfully protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, because intellectual property does not necessarily represent a barrier to entry into the thermal imaging industry, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our competitive advantage or that competitors will not develop capabilities equal or superior to ours. Litigation over patents and other intellectual property is common in our industry. We cannot be sure that we will not be the subject of patent or other litigation in the future. Defending intellectual property lawsuits and related legal and administrative proceedings could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort of our personnel. An adverse determination in a patent suit or in any other proceeding to which we may be a party could subject us to significant liabilities. An adverse determination could require us to seek licenses from third parties. If licenses were not available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, our business could be harmed. We would be harmed if we were unable to use one of our facilities. We manufacture our products at facilities located in the Portland, Boston, Stockholm and Santa Barbara areas. Our inability to continue to manufacture our products at one or more of our facilities as a result of, for example, an earthquake, a prolonged power shortage, fire or other natural disaster, would prevent us from supplying products to our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Oregon law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would benefit our shareholders. Other companies may seek to acquire or merge with us. An acquisition or merger of our company could result in benefits to our shareholders, including an increase in the value of our common stock. Some provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, including our shareholder rights plan and our ability to issue preferred stock without further action by our shareholders, as well as provisions of Oregon law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 34 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Companys exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to its credit agreements. The credit agreements are at variable rates. A change in interest rates on the credit agreements impacts the interest incurred and cash flows. At December 31, 2004, no amounts were outstanding on any of the Companys credit agreements; consequently, no sensitivity analysis is presented. The Companys convertible notes carry interest at a fixed rate of 3.0%. For fixed rate debt, interest rate changes impact the fair value of the notes but do not impact earnings or cash flows. The fair value of the notes at December 31, 2004, was approximately $343 million compared to a carrying value of $205.3 million. The Company has assets, liabilities, and inventory purchase commitments outside the United States that are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Similarly, certain revenues from products sold in foreign countries are sold in foreign currencies. Assets and liabilities located outside the United States are primarily located in Sweden and the United Kingdom. The Companys investments in foreign subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the US dollar are considered long term. The Company does not engage in forward currency exchange contracts to reduce its economic exposure to changes in exchange rates. Because the Company markets, sells and licenses our products throughout the world, it could be significantly affected by weak economic conditions in foreign markets that could reduce demand for its products. Our net investment in foreign subsidiaries translated into US dollars using the period end exchange rates at December 31, 2004, was approximately $142.4 million. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates would be approximately $14.2 million at December 31, 2004. Our net investment in foreign subsidiaries at December 31, 2003 was $86.6 million and the potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates was $8.7 million. The increase in the potential loss in fair value is primarily due to the increase in the net investment of foreign subsidiaries. The Company has no plans of liquidating any of its foreign subsidiaries, and therefore, foreign exchange rate gains or losses on our foreign investments are reflected as a cumulative translation adjustment and do not reduce our reported net earnings. 
 
