Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" ("MD&A") and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" herein. Such forward looking statements include (1) expectations regarding anticipated growth in the wireless communication industry, carriers investments in their networks, new tenant additions, cancellations of customer contracts and demand for our towers and distributed antenna systems, (2) availability of cash flows and liquidity for, and plans regarding, future discretionary investments including capital expenditures, (3) anticipated growth in future revenues, margins, Adjusted EBITDA and operating cash flows, (4) expectations regarding the credit markets, our availability and cost of capital, and our ability to service our debt and comply with debt covenants, and (5) the acquisition ("WCP acquisition")of certain subsidiaries of Wireless Capital Partners, LLC ("WCP") and the anticipated closing of the NextG Networks, Inc. ("NextG") acquisition ("NextG acquisition").Such forward looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including prevailing market conditions, the risk factors described under "Item 1A. Risk Factors" herein and other factors. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected.Unless this Form 10 K indicates otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms, "we," "our," "our company," "the company" or "us" as used in this Form 10 K refer to Crown Castle International Corp. ("CCIC"), a Delaware corporation organized on April 20, 1995, and its subsidiaries. Unless this Form 10 K indicates otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms "CCUSA" and "in the U.S." refer to our CCUSA segment while the terms "CCAL" and in Australia refer to our CCAL segment.PART I Item 1. BusinessOverviewWe own, operate and lease shared wireless infrastructure, including: (1) towers and other structures, such as rooftops (collectively, "towers"), (2) distributed antenna systems ("DAS")(each such system is a network of antennas for the benefit of wireless carriers and is connected by fiber to communication hubs designed to facilitate wireless communications), and (3) interests in land under third party towers in various forms ("third party land interests") (unless the context otherwise suggests or requires, references herein to "wireless infrastructure" include towers, DAS and third party land interests). Our core business is renting space or physical capacity (collectively, "space") on our towers, DAS and, to a lesser extent, third party land interests (collectively, "site rental business") via long term contracts in various forms, including license, sublease and lease agreements (collectively, "contracts"). Our wireless infrastructure can accommodate multiple customers ("co location") for antennas and other equipment necessary for the transmission of signals for wireless communication devices. We seek to increase our site rental revenues by adding more tenants on our wireless infrastructure, which we expect to result in significant incremental cash flows due to our relatively fixed operating costs.Information concerning our site rental business as of December 31, 2011 is as follows:We owned, leased or managed approximately 23,800 towers, approximately 800 DAS antenna locations ("nodes"), primarily located outdoors, and approximately 150 third party land interests.We have approximately 22,200 towers in the United States, including Puerto Rico ("U.S."), and approximately 1,600 towers in Australia.Approximately 54% and 71% of our towers in the U.S. are located in the 50 and 100 largest U.S. basic trading areas ("BTAs"), respectively. Our towers have a significant presence in 92 of the top 100 BTAs in the U.S. In Australia, 58% of our towers are located in seven major metropolitan areas.We owned in fee or had perpetual or long term easements in the land and other property interests (collectively, "land") on which approximately 34% of our site rental gross margin is derived, and we leased, subleased or licensed (collectively, "leased") the land interests on which approximately 65% of our site rental gross margin is derived. In addition, we managed approximately 600 towers owned by third parties. The leases for the land interests under our towers had an average remaining life of approximately 31 years, weighted based on site rental gross margin.Information concerning our customers and site rental contracts as of December 31, 2011 is as follows:Our customers include many of the worlds major wireless communications companies. In the U.S., our four largest customers (Verizon Wireless, AT&T, Sprint Nextel ("Sprint") and T Mobile) accounted for an aggregate 80% and 74% of our 2011 CCUSA and consolidated revenues, respectively. In Australia, our customers include Telstra, Optus and a joint venture between Vodafone and Hutchison ("VHA").Revenues derived from our site rental business represented 91% of our 2011 consolidated revenues. Our site rental revenues are of a recurring nature, and typically in excess of 90% have been contracted for in a prior year. Our site rental revenues typically result from long term contracts with (1) initial terms of five to 15 years, (2) multiple renewal periods at the option of the tenant of five to ten years each, (3) limited termination rights for our customers, and (4) contractual escalations of the rental price. Our customer contracts have a weighted average remaining life of approximately nine years, exclusive of renewals at the customers option, and represent $17 billion of expected future cash inflows.To a lesser extent, we also provide certain network services relating to our wireless infrastructure, primarily consisting of antenna installations and subsequent augmentations, as well as additional site development services relating to existing and new antenna installations on our wireless infrastructure. 1StrategyOur strategy is to increase long term stockholder value by translating anticipated future growth in our core site rental business into growth of our results of operations on a per share basis. We believe our strategy is consistent with our mission to deliver the highest level of service to our customers at all times striving to be their critical partner as we assist them in growing efficient, ubiquitous wireless networks. The key elements of our strategy are to:Organically grow the revenues and cash flows from our wireless infrastructure. We seek to maximize the site rental revenues derived from our wireless infrastructure by co locating additional tenants on our wireless infrastructure through long term contracts as our customers deploy and improve their wireless networks. We seek to maximize new tenant additions or modifications of existing installations (collectively, "new tenant additions") through our focus on customer service and deployment speed. Due to the relatively fixed nature of the costs to operate our wireless infrastructure (which tend to increase at approximately the rate of inflation), we expect the increased revenues from rent received from new tenant additions and the related subsequent impact from contracted escalations to result in incremental site rental gross margin and growth in our operating cash flows. We believe there is considerable additional future demand for our existing wireless infrastructure assets based on their location and the anticipated growth in the wireless communications industry.Allocate capital efficiently. We seek to allocate our available capital, including the net cash provided by our operating activities, in a manner that will enhance per share operating results. Our discretionary investments have historically included those shown below (in no particular order):purchase shares of our common stock ("common stock") from time to time;acquire or construct wireless infrastructure;acquire land interests under our towers;make improvements and structural enhancements to our existing wireless infrastructure; andpurchase or redeem our debt.Our long term strategy is based on our belief that additional demand for our wireless infrastructure will be created by the expected continued growth in the wireless communications industry, which is predominately driven by the demand for wireless voice and data services by consumers. We believe that additional demand for wireless infrastructure will create future growth opportunities for us. We believe that such demand for our wireless infrastructure will continue, will result in organic growth of our revenues due to new tenant additions on our existing wireless infrastructure and will create other growth opportunities for us, such as demand for new wireless infrastructure. During 2011, consumer demand for wireless data services continued to grow. As consumer demand for wireless devices such as smartphones, tablets and laptops, increased, the growth rate of voice services slowed. This growth in wireless data services is driven by increased mobile video, internet usage and machine to machine applications. The following is a discussion of certain recent events and actual and expected growth trends in the U.S. wireless communications industry:We expect that consumers growing demands for network speed and quality will likely result in wireless carriers continuing their focus on improving network quality and expanding capacity by adding additional antennas and other equipment for the transmission of their services to wireless infrastructure or to their existing wireless networks in an effort to improve customer retention and satisfaction.Our customers have introduced, and we believe they plan to continue to deploy, next generation wireless technologies, including 3G and 4G, in response to consumer demand for high speed networks. We expect these next generation technologies and others, including LTE, HSPA+ and WiMAX, to translate into additional demand for wireless infrastructure, although the timing and rate of this growth is difficult to predict.We have seen, and anticipate there could be other, new entrants into the wireless communications industry that should deploy regional or national wireless networks for voice and data services.Spectrum licensed by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") in 2006 and 2008 has enabled continued network development, and we expect these and future auctions should enable continued network development in the U.S. Most recently, Verizon entered into a proposed $3.6 billion agreement in December 2011 to purchase, subject to regulatory approval, spectrum originally auctioned in 2006 to SpectrumCo, a joint venture of cable companies.Consumers are increasing their use of wireless data services according to recent U.S. wireless industry reports. Wireless data services grew in 2011 as consumers increased their wireless use of e mail, internet, social networking, music and video sharing. Wireless data service revenues for 2011 are expected to reach $67 billion, which represents a 22% increase over 2010.(a) The number of wireless subscriber connections in the U.S. now exceeds the total amount of the U.S. population. (b) 2Wireless devices are trending toward more bandwidth intensive devices such as smartphones, laptops, netbooks, tablets and other emerging and embedded devices. In particular smartphones are expected to represent over 60% of the devices sold in the U.S. for 2011.(b) The number of smartphone subscribers using the mobile internet has grown by 45% since 2010. (c) (a)Source: Chetan Sharma Consulting(b)Source: RBC Capital Markets(c)Source: Neilsen2011 Highlights and Recent DevelopmentsSee "Item 7. MD&A" and our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of developments and activities occurring in 2011. In addition, see "Item 7. MD&A" and note 20 of our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of subsequent events occurring in 2012 through the date of this filing, including the definitive agreement to acquire NextG, the WCP acquisition, the refinancing of our credit facility in January 2012 ("January 2012 refinancing") and the exercise of our mandatory conversion right on our 6.25% redeemable convertible preferred stock ("preferred stock conversion").The CompanyVirtually all of our operations are located in the U.S. and Australia. We conduct our operations principally through subsidiaries of Crown Castle Operating Company ("CCOC"), including (1) certain subsidiaries which operate our wireless infrastructure portfolios in the U.S. and (2) a 77.6% owned subsidiary that operates our Australia tower portfolio. For more information about our operating segments, as well as financial information about the geographic areas in which we operate, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements and "Item 7. MD&A."CCUSASite Rental. The core business of CCUSA is the renting of space on our wireless infrastructure. We predominately rent space to wireless carriers under long term contracts for their antennas which transmit a variety of signals related to wireless voice and data. As a result, we believe our wireless infrastructure is integral to our customers network and their ability to serve their customers.Most of our towers were acquired from the four largest wireless carriers (or their predecessors) through transactions consummated since 1999, including (1) approximately 10,700 towers from Global Signal Inc. ("Global Signal") in 2007, of which approximately 6,600 were originally acquired from Sprint, (2) approximately 4,800 towers during 1999 to 2000 from companies now part of Verizon Wireless, (3) approximately 2,700 towers during 1999 to 2000 from companies now part of AT&T, as well as (4) other smaller acquisitions from companies now part of T Mobile and other independent tower operators.We generally receive monthly rental payments from tenants, payable under long term contracts. We have existing master lease agreements with most wireless carriers, including Verizon Wireless, AT&T, Sprint and T Mobile; such agreements provide certain terms (including economic terms) that govern contracts on our towers entered into by such carriers during the term of their master lease agreements. Over the last several years, we have negotiated up to 15 year terms for both initial and renewal periods for certain of our customers, which often included fixed escalations. We continue to endeavor to negotiate with our existing customer base for longer contractual terms, which often may contain fixed escalation rates. Our customer contracts have a high renewal rate because of (1) the integral nature of our wireless infrastructure within our customers networks, (2) customers cost associated with relocation of their antennas and other equipment to another wireless infrastructure, and (3) zoning and other barriers, including the cost of capital, associated with the construction of new wireless infrastructure. With limited exceptions, the customer contracts may not be terminated prior to the end of their current term. In general, each customer contract which is renewable will automatically renew at the end of its term unless the customer provides prior notice of its intent not to renew. See note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for a tabular presentation of the minimum rental cash payments due to us by tenants pursuant to contract agreements without consideration of tenant renewal options.The average monthly rental payment of a new tenant added to wireless infrastructure varies based on (1) the different regions in the U.S., (2) aggregate customer volume, and (3) the type of signal transmitted by the tenant, primarily as a result of the physical size of the antenna installation and related equipment. In addition, with respect to DAS, the amount of the rental payment can also be influenced by the cost of installation, including the related fiber. We also routinely receive rental payment increases in connection with contract amendments, pursuant to which our customers add additional antennas or other equipment to wireless infrastructure on which they already have equipment pursuant to pre existing contract agreements.Approximately two thirds of our direct site operating expenses consist of ground lease expenses and the remainder includes property taxes, repairs and maintenance, employee compensation and related benefit costs, and utilities. Our cash operating 3expenses tend to escalate at approximately the rate of inflation, partially offset by reductions in cash ground lease expenses from our purchases of land interests. As a result of the relatively fixed nature of these expenditures, the co location of additional tenants is achieved at a low incremental operating cost, resulting in high incremental operating cash flows. Our wireless infrastructure portfolio requires minimal sustaining capital expenditures, including maintenance and other non discretionary capital expenditures, and are typically less than 2% of site rental revenues or an annual average over the last three years of approximately $25 million. See note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for a tabular presentation of the rental cash payments owed by us to landlords pursuant to our contractual agreements.Network Services. To a lesser extent, we also offer wireless communication companies and their agents certain network services relating to our wireless infrastructure. For 2011, 69% of network services and other revenues related to antenna installations and subsequent augmentation (collectively, "installation services"), and the remainder related to the following additional site development services relating to existing and new antenna installations on our wireless infrastructure: site acquisition, architectural and engineering, zoning and permitting, fiber installations, other construction and other services related to network development. We do not always provide the installation services on our wireless infrastructure as the customer may obtain a third party to complete these services. (see also "Competition" below). We have grown our network services business over the last several years as a result of our focus on customer service, increasing our market share for installation services on our wireless infrastructure, promoting site development services and expanding the scope of services. We have the capability and expertise to install, with the assistance of our network of subcontractors, equipment and antenna systems for our customers. These activities are typically non recurring and highly competitive, with a number of local competitors in most markets. Nearly all of our antenna installation services are billed on a cost plus profit basis. Customers. We work extensively with large national wireless carriers, and in general, our customers are primarily comprised of providers of wireless voice and data services who operate national or regional networks. The following table summarizes the net revenues from our four largest customers expressed as a percentage of our consolidated revenues for 2011. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors."Customer% of 2011CCUSANet Revenues % of 2011ConsolidatedNet RevenuesAT&T25% 23%Sprint22% 21%Verizon Wireless21% 19%T Mobile12% 11%Total80% 74%Sales and Marketing. Our sales organization markets our wireless infrastructure within the wireless communications industry with the objectives of renting space on existing wireless infrastructure and on new wireless infrastructure prior to construction as well as obtaining network services related to our wireless infrastructure. We seek to become the critical partner and preferred independent wireless infrastructure provider for our customers and increase customer satisfaction relative to our peers by leveraging our (1) technological tools, (2) process centric approach, and (3) customer relationships.We use public and proprietary databases to develop targeted marketing programs focused on carrier network expansions, including DAS, and related network services. We attempt to match specific wireless infrastructure in our portfolio with potential new site demand by obtaining and analyzing information, including our customers existing antenna locations, tenant contracts, marketing strategies, capital spend plans, deployment status, and actual wireless carrier signal strength measurements taken in the field. We have developed a web based tool that stores key wireless infrastructure information above and beyond normal property management information, including data on actual customer signal strength, demographics, site readiness and competitive structures. In addition, the web based tool assists us in estimating potential demand for our wireless infrastructure with greater speed and accuracy. We believe these and other tools we have developed assist our customers in their site selection and deployment of their wireless networks and provide us with an opportunity to have proactive discussions with them regarding their wireless infrastructure deployment plans and the timing and location of their demand for our wireless infrastructure. A key aspect to our sales and marketing strategy is a continued emphasis on our process centric approach to reduce cycle time related to new leasing and amendments, which helps provide our customers with faster deployment of their networks.A team of national account directors maintains our relationships with our largest customers. These directors work to develop wireless infrastructure leasing and network service opportunities, as well as to ensure that customers wireless infrastructure needs are efficiently translated into new leases on our wireless infrastructure. Sales personnel in our area offices develop and maintain local relationships with our customers that are expanding their networks, entering new markets, bringing new technologies to market or requiring maintenance or add on business. In addition to our full time sales and marketing staff, a number of senior managers and officers spend a significant portion of their time on sales and marketing activities and call on existing and prospective 4customers.Competition. We compete with (1) other independent tower owners which also provide site rental and network services, (2) wireless carriers which build, own and operate their own tower networks and lease space to other wireless communication companies, and (3) owners of alternative facilities, including rooftops, water towers, broadcast towers, DAS, and utility poles. Some of the larger independent tower companies with which we compete in the U.S. include American Tower Corporation and SBA Communications Corporation. Wireless carriers that own and operate their own tower networks generally some of which are larger and have greater financial resources than we have. We believe that tower location and capacity, deployment speed, quality of service and price have been and will continue to be the most significant competitive factors affecting the leasing of wireless infrastructure.Competitors in the network services business include site acquisition consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right of way consulting firms, construction companies, tower owners and managers, radio frequency engineering consultants, telecommunications equipment vendors who can provide turnkey site development services through multiple subcontractors, and our customers internal staffs. We believe that our customers base their decisions on the outsourcing of network services on criteria such as a companys experience, track record, local reputation, price and time for completion of a project.CCALOur primary business in Australia is the renting of antenna space on towers to our customers. CCAL is owned 77.6% by us and 22.4% by Permanent Nominees (Aust) Ltd, acting on behalf of a group of professional and private investors led by Todd Capital Limited. CCAL is the largest independent tower operator in Australia. As of December 31, 2011, CCAL had approximately 1,600 towers with 58% of such towers located in seven major metropolitan areas. The majority of CCALs towers were acquired from Optus (in 2000) and Vodafone (in 2001). CCAL also provides a range of services including site maintenance and property management services for towers owned by third parties.For 2011, CCAL comprised 6% of our consolidated net revenues. CCALs principal customers are Telstra, Optus and VHA, which collectively accounted for approximately 94% of CCALs 2011 revenues. During 2011, the Australian government entered into agreements with carriers to develop and roll out the National Broadband Network ("NBN"). NBN is a national high speed open access data network under development targeting nearly all Australian premises. We believe that the development of NBN may result in additional future demand for new tenant additions on CCALs existing towers and construction of new towers.In Australia, CCAL competes with wireless carriers, which own and operate their own tower networks; service companies that provide site maintenance and property management services; and other site owners, such as broadcasters and building owners. The other significant tower owners in Australia are Broadcast Australia, an independent operator of broadcast towers, and Telstra and Optus, wireless carriers. We believe that tower location, capacity, quality of service, deployment speed and price within a geographic market are the most significant competitive factors affecting the leasing of wireless infrastructure in Australia.EmployeesAt January 31, 2012, we employed approximately 1,300 people worldwide, including approximately 1,200 in the U.S. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages, and management believes that our employee relations are satisfactory.Regulatory and Environmental MattersTo date, we have not incurred any material fines or penalties or experienced any material adverse effects to our business as a result of any domestic or international regulations. The summary below is based on regulations currently in effect, and such regulations are subject to review and modification by the applicable governmental authority from time to time. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be fined or even lose our rights to conduct some of our business.United States We are required to comply with a variety of federal, state and local regulations and laws in the U.S., including FCC and Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") regulations and those discussed under "Environmental" below.Federal Regulations. Both the FCC and the FAA regulate towers used for wireless communications, radio and television broadcasting. Such regulations control the siting, lighting and marking of towers and may, depending on the characteristics of particular towers, require the registration of tower facilities with the FCC and the issuance of determinations confirming no hazard to air traffic. Wireless communications devices operating on towers are separately regulated and independently licensed based upon the particular frequency used. In addition, the FCC and the FAA have developed standards to consider proposals for new or modified tower and antenna structures based upon the height and location, including proximity to airports. Proposals to construct 5or to modify existing tower and antenna structures above certain heights are reviewed by the FAA to ensure the structure will not present a hazard to aviation, which determination may be conditioned upon compliance with lighting and marking requirements. The FCC requires its licensees to operate communications devices only on towers that comply with FAA rules and are registered with the FCC, if required by its regulations. Where tower lighting is required by FAA regulation, tower owners bear the responsibility of notifying the FAA of any tower lighting outage and ensuring the timely restoration of such outages. Failure to comply with the applicable requirements may lead to civil penalties.Local Regulations. The U.S. Telecommunications Act of 1996 amended the Communications Act of 1934 to preserve state and local zoning authorities jurisdiction over the siting of communications towers and DAS. The law, however, limits local zoning authority by prohibiting actions by local authorities that discriminate between different service providers of wireless services or ban altogether the provision of wireless services. Additionally, the law prohibits state and local restrictions based on the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent the facilities comply with FCC regulations.Local regulations include city and other local ordinances (including subdivision and zoning ordinances), approvals for construction, modification and removal of towers and DAS, and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers. These regulations vary greatly, but typically require us to obtain approval from local officials prior to tower construction. Local zoning authorities may render decisions that prevent the construction or modification of towers or place conditions on such construction or modifications that are responsive to community residents concerns regarding the height, visibility and other characteristics of the towers. To expedite the deployment of wireless networks, the FCC issued a declaratory ruling in 2009 establishing timeframes for the review of applications by local and state governments of 90 days for co locations and 150 days for new tower construction. If a jurisdiction fails to act within these timeframes, the applicant may file a claim for relief in court. Notwithstanding this declaratory ruling, decisions of local zoning authorities may also adversely affect the timing and cost of tower construction and modification.Environmental. We are required to comply with a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations protecting environmental quality, including air and water quality and wildlife protection. To date, we have not incurred any material fines or penalties or experienced any material adverse effects to our business as a result of any domestic or international environmental regulations or matters. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors."The construction of new towers and, in some cases, the modification of existing towers in the U.S. may be subject to environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended ("NEPA"), which requires federal agencies to evaluate the environmental impact of major federal actions. The FCC has promulgated regulations implementing NEPA which require applicants to investigate the potential environmental impact of the proposed tower construction. Should the proposed tower construction present a significant environmental impact, the FCC must prepare an environmental impact statement, subject to public comment. If the proposed construction or modification of a tower may have a significant impact on the environment, the FCCs approval of the construction or modification could be significantly delayed.Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the management, use, storage, disposal, emission, and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non hazardous substances, materials and wastes. As an owner, lessee or operator of real property, we are subject to certain environmental laws that impose strict, joint and several liability for the cleanup of on site or off site contamination relating to existing or historical operations; and we could also be subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to such contamination. In general, our customer contracts prohibit our customers from using or storing any hazardous substances on our tower sites in violation of applicable environmental laws and require our customers to provide notice of certain environmental conditions caused by them.As licensees and wireless infrastructure owners, we are also subject to regulations and guidelines that impose a variety of operational requirements relating to radio frequency emissions. As employers, we are subject to Occupational Safety and Health Administration (and similar occupational health and safety legislation in Australia) and similar guidelines regarding employee protection from radio frequency exposure. The potential connection between radio frequency emissions and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years.We have compliance programs and monitoring projects to help assure that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on us.Other Regulations. We hold, through certain of our subsidiaries, licenses for common carrier microwave service, which are subject to additional regulation by the FCC. Our FCC license relating to our 1670 1675 MHz U.S. nationwide spectrum license ("Spectrum") contains certain conditions related to the services that may be provided thereunder, the technical equipment used in connection therewith and the circumstances under which it may be renewed. In 2007, after receiving FCC approval, we entered into a long term lease of the Spectrum with an initial term through 2013.6AustraliaFederal Regulations. Carrier licenses and nominated carrier declarations issued under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997 authorize the use of network units for the supply of telecommunications services to the public. The definition of network units includes line links and base stations used for wireless voice services but does not include tower infrastructure. Accordingly, CCAL as a tower owner and operator does not require a carrier license under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997. Similarly, because CCAL does not own any transmitters or spectrum, it does not currently require any apparatus or spectrum licenses issued under the Australian Radiocommunications Act 1992.Carriers have a statutory obligation to provide other carriers with access to towers, and if there is a dispute (including a pricing dispute), the matter may be referred to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission for resolution. As a non carrier, CCAL is not subject to this requirement, and our customers negotiate site access on a commercial basis.While the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997 grants certain exemptions from planning laws for the installation of "low impact facilities," newly constructed towers are expressly excluded from the definition of "low impact facilities." Accordingly, in connection with the construction of towers, CCAL is subject to state and local planning laws that vary on a site by site basis, typically requiring us to obtain approval from local government agencies prior to tower construction, subject to certain exceptions. Structural enhancements may be undertaken on behalf of a carrier without state and local planning approval under the general "maintenance power" under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997, although these enhancements may be subject to state and local planning laws if CCAL is unable to obtain carrier cooperation to use such power. For a limited number of towers, CCAL is also required to install aircraft warning lighting in compliance with federal aviation regulations. In Australia, a carrier may arguably be able to utilize the "maintenance power" under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997 to remain as a tenant on a tower after the expiration of a site license or sublease; however, CCALs customer access agreements generally limit the ability of customers to do this, and, even if a carrier did utilize this power, the carrier would be required to pay for CCALs financial loss, which would roughly equal the site rental revenues that would have otherwise been payable.Local Regulations. In Australia there are various local, state and territory laws and regulations which relate to, among other things, town planning and zoning restrictions, standards and approvals for the design, construction or alteration of a structure or facility, and environmental regulations. As in the U.S., these laws vary greatly, but typically require tower owners to obtain approval from governmental bodies prior to tower construction and to comply with environmental laws on an ongoing basis.Item 1A. Risk FactorsYou should carefully consider all of the risks described below, as well as the other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investment in our securities.Our business depends on the demand for wireless communications and wireless infrastructure, and we may be adversely affected by any slowdown in such demand. Additionally, a reduction in carrier network investment may materially and adversely affect our business (including reducing demand for new tenant additions and network services).Demand for our wireless infrastructure depends on the demand for antenna space from our customers, which, in turn, depends on the demand for wireless voice and data services by their customers. The willingness of our customers to utilize our wireless infrastructure, or renew or extend existing contracts on our wireless infrastructure, is affected by numerous factors, including:consumer demand for wireless services;availability and capacity of our wireless infrastructure and associated land interests;location of our wireless infrastructure;financial condition of our customers, including their availability and cost of capital;willingness of our customers to maintain or increase their capital expenditures;increased use of network sharing, roaming, joint development, or resale agreements by our customers;mergers or consolidations among our customers;changes in, or success of, our customers business models;governmental regulations, including local and state restrictions on the proliferation of wireless infrastructure;cost of constructing wireless infrastructure;technological changes, including those affecting (1) the number or type of wireless infrastructure or other communications sites needed to provide wireless communications services to a given geographic area and (2) the obsolescence of certain existing wireless networks; andour ability to efficiently satisfy our customers service requirements.A slowdown in demand for wireless communications or our wireless infrastructure may negatively impact our growth or 7otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. Over the last several years, new entrants in the marketplace, such as those providing wireless data technologies, have accounted for a significant portion of our new tenant additions. Our expectations for future demand for our wireless infrastructure are based in part on new entrants into the wireless communications industry with unproven business models. The success of new entrants can be influenced by numerous factors, including the items described above, particularly the availability and cost of capital and the success of their business models. If our customers or potential customers are unable to raise adequate capital to fund their business plans, as a result of disruptions in the financial and credit markets or otherwise, they may reduce their spending, which could adversely affect our anticipated growth and the demand for our wireless infrastructure and network services. Historically, the amount of our customers network investment is cyclical and has varied based upon the various matters described in these risk factors. Changes in carrier network investment typically impact the demand for our wireless infrastructure. As a result, changes in carrier plans such as delays in the implementation of new systems, new technologies or plans to expand coverage or capacity may reduce demand for our wireless infrastructure. Furthermore, the wireless communication industry could experience a slowdown or slowing growth rates as a result of numerous factors, including a reduction in consumer demand for wireless services and general economic conditions. There can be no assurances that the weakness and uncertainty in the current economic environment will not adversely impact the wireless communications industry, which may materially and adversely affect our business, including by reducing demand for our wireless infrastructure and network services. In addition, such a slowdown may increase competition for site rental customers and network services. A wireless communications industry slowdown or a reduction in carrier network investment may materially and adversely affect our business.A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from a small number of customers, and the loss, consolidation or financial instability of any of our limited number of customers may materially decrease revenues and reduce demand for our wireless infrastructure and network services.For 2011, approximately 74% of our consolidated revenues were derived from AT&T, Sprint, Verizon Wireless and T Mobile, which represented 23%, 21%, 19% and 11%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues. The loss of any one of our large customers as a result of bankruptcy, insolvency, consolidation, network sharing, roaming, joint development, resale agreements by our customers, merger with other customers of ours or otherwise may result in (1) a material decrease in our revenues, (2) uncollectible account receivables, (3) an impairment of our deferred site rental receivables, wireless infrastructure assets, site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets, and (4) other adverse effects to our business. We cannot guarantee that contracts with our major customers will not be terminated or that these customers will renew their contracts with us. In addition to our four largest customers in the U.S., we also derive a portion of our revenues and anticipated future growth from customers offering or contemplating offering emerging wireless services; such customers are smaller and have less financial resources than our four largest customers, have business models which may not be successful, and may require additional capital. See also "Item 1. BusinessThe Company."Consolidation among our customers will likely result in duplicate or overlapping parts of networks, which may result in a reduction of wireless infrastructure and impact revenues from our wireless infrastructure. In addition, consolidation may result in a reduction in such customers future capital expenditures in the aggregate because their expansion plans may be similar. Wireless carrier consolidation could decrease the demand for our wireless infrastructure, which in turn may result in a reduction in our revenues and cash flows.Recent examples of consolidation include Verizon Wireless acquiring Alltel in 2009. Also, Sprint merged with Nextel in August 2005, resulting in their use of two separate wireless technologies. During 2010, Sprint announced Network Vision, a multi year network enhancement to improve network speed, quality and efficiency and consolidate their multiple network technologies, including the elimination of their narrow band push to talk network, referred to as iDEN. Sprint expects the Network Vision deployment to reach 250 million people by the end of 2013. Sprints plan will likely result in Sprint not renewing certain contracts with us. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to react to changes in our business, and the terms of our debt instruments limit our ability to take a number of actions that our management might otherwise believe to be in our best interests. In addition, if we fail to comply with our covenants, our debt could be accelerated.As a result of our substantial indebtedness:we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions;we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund discretionary investments and other general corporate requirements or to refinance our existing indebtedness;we are or will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the available cash flows to fund other projects, including the discretionary investments discussed in "Item 1. Business;"8we may have limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the industry;we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry with less debt;we may be required to issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity or sell some of our assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet payment obligations; andwe may be limited in our ability to take advantage of strategic business opportunities, including wireless infrastructure development and mergers and acquisitions.Currently we have debt instruments in place that limit in certain circumstances our ability to incur indebtedness, pay dividends, create liens, sell assets and engage in certain mergers and acquisitions. Our subsidiaries, under their debt instruments, are also required to maintain specific financial ratios. Our ability to comply with the financial ratio covenants under these instruments and to satisfy our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with the debt restrictions, we will be in default under those instruments, which would cause the maturity of a substantial portion of our long term indebtedness to be accelerated. If our operating subsidiaries were to default on the debt, the trustee could seek to foreclose the collateral securing the debt, in which case we could lose the wireless infrastructure and the revenues associated with the wireless infrastructure. We are currently in compliance with our debt service coverage and leverage ratios. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesDebt Covenants" for a further discussion of our debt covenants.CCIC and CCOC are holding companies that conduct all of their operations through their subsidiaries. Accordingly, CCICs and CCOCs respective sources of cash to pay interest and principal on their outstanding indebtedness are distributions relating to their respective ownership interests in their subsidiaries from the net earnings and cash flows generated by such subsidiaries or from proceeds of debt or equity offerings. Earnings and cash flows generated by their subsidiaries are first applied by such subsidiaries to conduct their operations, including servicing their respective debt obligations, after which any excess cash flows generally may be paid to such holding company, in the absence of any special conditions such as a continuing event of default. However, their subsidiaries are legally distinct from the holding companies and, unless they guarantee such debt, have no obligation to pay amounts due on their debt or to make funds available to us for such payment.We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. In the event we do not repay or refinance such indebtedness, we could face substantial liquidity issues and might be required to issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, or sell some of our assets to meet our debt payment obligations.We have a substantial amount of indebtedness (approximately $8.0 billion as of December 31, 2011), after giving effect to the WCP acquisition and our January 2012 refinancing which we will need to refinance or repay. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources" for a tabular presentation of our contractual debt maturities. There can be no assurances we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or terms, including with respect to interest rates, as favorable as our current debt, or at all.Economic conditions and the credit markets continue to experience a period of volatility, uncertainty and weakness due to, among other things, the impact of uncertainty around European sovereign debt. Any renewed financial turmoil, worsening credit environment, European sovereign debt crisis, weakening of the general economy and further uncertainty could impact the availability and cost of debt financing, including with respect to any refinancing of the obligations described above and on our ability to draw the full amount of our $500.0 million delayed draw term loan and our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility.If we are unable to refinance or renegotiate our debt, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate enough cash flows from operations or that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt or fund our planned capital expenditures. In such an event, we could face substantial liquidity issues and might be required to issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, or sell some of our assets to meet our debt payment obligations. Failure to refinance indebtedness when required could result in a default under such indebtedness. Assuming we meet certain financial ratios, we have the ability under our debt instruments to incur additional indebtedness, and any additional indebtedness we incur could exacerbate the risks described above.Sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Future sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity related securities may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of February 6, 2012, we had 284.5 million shares of common stock outstanding, and we reserved 8.1 million shares of common stock for future issuance under our various stock compensation plans. We also expect to issue 8.3 million shares of our common stock in connection with preferred stock conversion in February 2012.In addition, a small number of stockholders own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. If any one of these stockholders, or any group of our stockholders, sells a large quantity of shares of our common stock, or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell a large quantity of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common 9stock may significantly decline.As a result of competition in our industry, including from some competitors with significantly more resources or less debt than we have, we may find it more difficult to achieve favorable rental rates on our new or renewing customer contracts.Our growth is dependent on entering into new customer contracts as well as renewing or renegotiating customer contracts when existing customer contracts terminate. We face competition for site rental customers from various sources, including:other independent wireless infrastructure owners or operators, including towers, rooftops, water towers, DAS, broadcast towers and utility poles;wireless carriers that own and operate their own wireless infrastructure and lease antenna space to other wireless communication companies; andnew alternative deployment methods in the wireless communication industry.Wireless carriers that own and operate their own wireless infrastructure portfolios are generally substantially larger and have greater financial resources than we have. Competition in our industry may make it more difficult for us to attract new customers, maintain or increase our gross margins or maintain or increase our market share.New technologies may significantly reduce demand for our wireless infrastructure and negatively impact our revenues.Improvements in the efficiency of wireless networks could reduce the demand for our wireless infrastructure. For example, signal combining technologies that permit one antenna to service multiple frequencies and, thereby, multiple customers may reduce the need for our wireless infrastructure. In addition, other technologies, such as femtocells and satellite transmission systems (such as low earth orbiting) may, in the future, serve as substitutes for or alternatives to leasing that might otherwise be anticipated or expected on wireless infrastructure had such technologies not existed. Any significant reduction in wireless infrastructure leasing demand resulting from the previously mentioned technologies or other technologies may negatively impact our revenues or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.New wireless technologies may not deploy or be adopted by customers as rapidly or in the manner projected.There can be no assurances that new wireless services and technologies will be introduced or deployed as rapidly or in the manner projected by the wireless or broadcast industries. In addition, demand and customer adoption rates for such new technologies may be lower or slower than anticipated for numerous reasons. As a result, growth opportunities and demand for our wireless infrastructure as a result of such technologies may not be realized at the times or to the extent anticipated.If we fail to retain rights to our wireless infrastructure, including the land interests under our towers, our business may be adversely affected.Our property interests relating to the land interests on which our towers reside consist primarily of leasehold and sub leasehold interests, fee interests, easements, licenses and rights of way. A loss of these interests may interfere with our ability to conduct our business and generate revenues. For various reasons, we may not always have the ability to access, analyze and verify all information regarding titles and other issues prior to purchasing wireless infrastructure. Further, we may not be able to renew ground leases on commercially viable terms. Our ability to retain rights to the land interests on which our towers reside depends on our ability to purchase such land or to renegotiate and extend the terms of the leases relating to such land. Approximately 11% of our site rental gross margins for the year ended December 31, 2011 are derived from towers where the leases for the land interests under such towers have final expiration dates of less than ten years. If we are unable to retain rights to the land interests on which our towers reside, our business may be adversely affected. Approximately 6,500 of our towers are leased or operated for an initial period of 32 years (through May 2037) under master leases and subleases with Sprint ("Sprint Towers"). We have the option to purchase in 2037 all (but not less than all) of the Sprint Towers from Sprint for approximately $2.3 billion. We may not have the required available capital to exercise our right to purchase these towers at the end of the applicable period. Even if we do have available capital, we may choose not to exercise our right to purchase the Sprint Towers for business or other reasons. In the event that we do not exercise these purchase rights, or are otherwise unable to acquire an interest that would allow us to continue to operate these towers after the applicable period, we will lose the cash flows derived from such towers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event that we decide to exercise these purchase rights, the benefits of the acquisition of the Sprint Towers may not exceed the costs, which could adversely affect our business.Our network services business has historically experienced significant volatility in demand, which reduces the predictability of our results.The operating results of our network services business for any particular period may vary significantly and should not 10necessarily be considered indicative of longer term results for this activity. Our network services business may be adversely impacted by various factors including competition, economic weakness and uncertainty, our market share, and changes in the type and volume of work performed.If we fail to comply with laws or regulations which regulate our business and which may change at any time, we may be fined or even lose our right to conduct some of our business.A variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations apply to our business, including those discussed in "Item 1. Business." Failure to comply with applicable requirements may lead to civil penalties or require us to assume indemnification obligations or breach contractual provisions. We cannot guarantee that existing or future laws or regulations, including state and local tax laws, will not adversely affect our business, increase delays or result in additional costs. These factors may have a material adverse effect on us.If radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets or equipment on our wireless infrastructure are demonstrated to cause negative health effects, potential future claims could adversely affect our operations, costs and revenues.The potential connection between radio frequency emissions and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years. We cannot guarantee that claims relating to radio frequency emissions will not arise in the future or that the results of such studies will not be adverse to us.Public perception of possible health risks associated with cellular and other wireless communications may slow or diminish the growth of wireless companies, which may in turn slow or diminish our growth. In particular, negative public perception of, and regulations regarding, these perceived health risks may slow or diminish the market acceptance of wireless communications services. If a connection between radio emissions and possible negative health effects were established, our operations, costs and revenues may be materially and adversely affected. We currently do not maintain any significant insurance with respect to these matters.Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by laws and operative agreements and domestic and international competition laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or for us to acquire control of a third party, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders.We have a number of anti takeover devices in place that will hinder takeover attempts and may reduce the market value of our common stock. Our anti takeover provisions include:a staggered board of directors;the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock without approval of the holders of our common stock; and;advance notice requirements for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings.Our by laws permit special meetings of the stockholders to be called only upon the request of our Chief Executive Officer or a majority of the board of directors, and deny stockholders the ability to call such meetings. Such provisions, as well as the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.In addition, domestic and international competition laws may prevent or discourage us from acquiring wireless infrastructure in certain geographical areas or impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.We may be adversely effected by exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our operations in Australia.Our Australian operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For 2011, approximately 6% of our consolidated net revenues were denominated in Australian dollars. Over the past five years, the Australian dollar has strengthened by 29% against the U.S. dollar. We have not historically engaged in significant hedging activities relating to our Australian operations, and we may suffer future losses as a result of changes in currency exchange rates.Available Information and CertificationsWe maintain an internet website at www.crowncastle.com. Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, and current reports on Form 8 K (and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are made available, free of charge, through the investor relations section of our internet website at http://investor.crowncastle.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or 11furnish it to, the SEC.In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, business practices and ethics policy and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee are available through the investor relations section of our internet website at http://www.crowncastle.com/investor/corpgovernance.asp, and such information is also available in print to any stockholder who requests it.We submitted the Chief Executive Officer certification required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") Listed Company Manual, relating to compliance with the NYSEs corporate governance listing standards, to the NYSE on June 17, 2011 with no qualifications. We have included the certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10 K.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.Item 2. PropertiesOfficesOur principal corporate headquarters is owned and located in Houston, Texas. In the U.S., we own or lease area offices located in (1) Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, (2) Charlotte, North Carolina, (3) Alpharetta, Georgia, and (4) Phoenix, Arizona. The principal responsibilities of these area offices are to manage the renting of wireless infrastructure space on a local basis, maintain the wireless infrastructure already located in the area and service our customers in the area. In addition, general and administrative functions are also performed at the Canonsburg, Pennsylvania location. In addition, we lease additional, smaller offices in locations with high wireless infrastructure concentrations. In Australia, we lease an office in Sydney.Wireless Infrastructure Towers are vertical metal structures generally ranging in height from 50 to 500 feet. In addition, wireless communications equipment may also be placed on building rooftops and other structures. Our towers are located on tracts of land with an average size of approximately 20,000 square feet. These tracts of land support the towers, equipment shelters and, where applicable, guyed wires to stabilize the structure. DAS are typically located in areas in which zoning restrictions or other barriers may prevent or delay the deployment of a tower and often are attached to public right of way infrastructure such as utility poles and street lights. See "Item 1. BusinessOverview" for information regarding our wireless infrastructure portfolio including with respect to our land interests and for a discussion of the location of our towers in the U.S. and Australia, including the percentage of our U.S. towers in the top 50 and 100 BTAs. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesContractual Cash Obligations" for a tabular presentation of the remaining terms to final expiration of the leases for the land interests which we do not own and on which our towers are located as of December 31, 2011.Approximately 15,700 towers (66% of our total) and their related cash flows effectively secure $4.6 billion of our debt. Governing documents relating to another approximately 4,900 towers prevent liens from being granted on those towers without approval of a subsidiary of Verizon; however, distributions paid from the entities that own those towers also service our tower revenue notes. See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements.Approximately 6,500 of our towers are leased or operated for an initial period of 32 years (through May 2037) under master leases and subleases with Sprint. We have the option to purchase in 2037 all (but not less than all) of these Sprint Towers from Sprint for approximately $2.3 billion. Substantially all of our wireless infrastructure can accommodate another tenant either as currently constructed or with appropriate modifications to the structure. Additionally, if so inclined as a result of a customer request for a new co location or amendment of an existing installation, we could generally replace an existing tower with another tower in its place providing additional capacity, subject to certain restrictions. As of December 31, 2011, the average number of tenants (defined as a unique license and any related amendments thereto for count purposes) per tower is approximately 3 on our towers. The following is a summary of the number of existing tenants per tower as of December 31, 2011 (see "Item 7. MD&AAccounting and Reporting MattersCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for a discussion of our impairment evaluation and our towers with no tenants).12 Number of Tenants Percent of TowersGreater than five 8%Five 7%Four 12%Three 19%Two 25%Less than two 29%Total 100%Item 3. Legal ProceedingsWe are periodically involved in legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Most of these proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business involve disputes with landlords, vendors, collection matters involving bankrupt customers, zoning and variance matters, condemnation or wrongful termination claims. While the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, management does not expect any pending matters to have a material adverse effect on us.Item 4. Mine Safety DisclosuresN/A13PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesPrice Range of Common StockOur common stock is listed and traded on the NYSE under the symbol "CCI". The following table sets forth for the calendar periods indicated the high and low sales prices per share of our common stock as reported by the NYSE. High Low2011: First Quarter$46.27 $36.38Second Quarter44.49 39.74Third Quarter44.80 37.53Fourth Quarter44.92 38.702010: First Quarter$40.49 $34.12Second Quarter40.00 34.25Third Quarter44.46 36.01Fourth Quarter44.45 41.10As of February 6, 2012, there were approximately 810 holders of record of our common stock.Dividend PolicyWe have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. It is our current policy to utilize our net cash provided by operating activities to engage in discretionary investments such as those discussed in "Item 1. Business." Periodically, our board of directors assesses the advisability of declaring and paying cash dividends at some point in the future, based on the then current and anticipated future conditions, including our earnings, net cash provided by operating activities, capital requirements, financial condition, our relative market capitalization, taxable income, taxpayer status, and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by the terms of our debt instruments under certain circumstances.In 2011 and 2010, dividends on our 6.25% redeemable convertible preferred stock were paid utilizing approximately $19.5 million and $19.9 million in cash, respectively. In January 2012, we exercised our right to convert all of the outstanding 6.25% redeemable convertible preferred stock. The conversion of such preferred stock into 8.3 million shares of common stock is expected to occur in February 2012. See note 20 to our consolidated financial statements.Equity Compensation PlansCertain information with respect to our equity compensation plans is set forth in Item 12 herein.14Performance GraphThe following performance graph is a comparison of the five year cumulative stockholder return on our common stock against the cumulative total return of the NYSE Market Index and the Dow Jones Telecommunication Equipment Index for the period commencing December 31, 2006 and ending December 31, 2011. The performance graph assumes an initial investment of $100.0 in our common stock and in each of the indices. The performance graph and related text are based on historical data and are not necessarily indicative of future performance. Years Ended December 31,Company/Index/Market 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011Crown Castle International Corp. $100.00 $128.79 $54.44 $120.88 $135.72 $138.72NYSE Market Index 100.00 108.87 66.13 84.83 96.19 92.63DJ Telecommunication Equipment Index 100.00 103.28 61.39 92.59 95.65 88.09The performance graph above and related text are being furnished solely to accompany this annual report on Form 10 K pursuant to Item 201(e) of Regulation S K, and are not being filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of ours, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.15Item 6. Selected Financial DataOur selected historical consolidated financial and other data set forth below for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 2011, and as of December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 have been derived from our consolidated financial statements. The information set forth below should be read in conjunction with "Item 1. Business," "Item 7. MD&A" and our consolidated financial statements. Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In thousands of dollars, except per share amounts)Statement of Operations Data: Net revenues: Site rental$1,853,550 $1,700,761 $1,543,192 $1,402,559 $1,286,468Network services and other179,179 177,897 142,215 123,945 99,018Net revenues2,032,729 1,878,658 1,685,407 1,526,504 1,385,486Operating expenses: Costs of operations(a): Site rental481,398 467,136 456,560 456,123 443,342Network services and other106,987 114,241 92,808 82,452 65,742Total costs of operations588,385 581,377 549,368 538,575 509,084General and administrative173,493 165,356 153,072 149,586 142,846Restructuring charges (credits) 3,191Asset write down charges(b)22,285 13,687 19,237 16,888 65,515Acquisition and integration costs3,310 2,102 2,504 25,418Depreciation, amortization and accretion552,951 540,771 529,739 526,442 539,904Operating income (loss)692,305 575,365 433,991 292,509 99,528Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs(c)(507,587) (490,269) (445,882) (354,114) (350,259)Impairment of available for sale securities(d)(4,216) (55,869) (75,623)Gains (losses) on retirement of long term obligations(c) (138,367) (91,079) 42 Net gain (loss) on interest rate swaps(e) (286,435) (92,966) (37,888) Interest income666 2,204 2,967 8,336 14,172Other income (expense)(1,361) (603) 2,446 (6,235) (4,821)Income (loss) before income taxes179,807 (338,105) (190,523) (153,219) (317,003)Benefit (provision) for income taxes(f)(8,347) 26,846 76,400 104,361 94,039Net income (loss)(g)171,460 (311,259) (114,123) (48,858) (222,964)Less: Net income (loss) attributable to the noncontrolling interest383 (319) 209 (151)Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders171,077 (310,940) (114,332) (48,858) (222,813)Dividends on preferred stock and losses on purchases of preferred stock(22,940) (20,806) (20,806) (20,806) (20,805)Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders after deduction of dividends on preferred stock and losses on purchases of preferred stock$148,137 $(331,746) $(135,138) $(69,664) $(243,618)Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC common stockholders, after deduction of dividends on preferred stock and losses of purchases of preferred stock, per common share basic and diluted$0.52 $(1.16) $(0.47) $(0.25) $(0.87)Weighted average common shares outstanding (in thousands): Basic283,821 286,764 286,622 282,007 279,937Diluted285,947 286,764 286,622 282,007 279,93716 Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In thousands of dollars, except per share amounts)Other Data: Summary cash flow information: Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities$643,454 $603,430 $571,256 $513,001 $350,355Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities(399,865) (390,949) (172,145) (476,613) (791,448)Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities(275,712) (866,624) 214,396 47,717 (77,782)Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(h)1.3 Balance Sheet Data (at period end): Cash and cash equivalents$80,120 $112,531 $766,146 $155,219 $75,245Property and equipment, net4,861,227 4,893,651 4,895,983 5,060,126 5,051,055Total assets10,545,096 10,469,529 10,956,606 10,361,722 10,488,133Total debt and other long term obligations(c)6,885,699 6,778,894 6,579,150 6,102,189 6,072,103Total CCIC stockholders equity2,386,245 2,445,373 2,936,241 2,715,865 3,166,911 (a)Exclusive of depreciation, amortization and accretion shown separately.(b)2007 is inclusive of $57.6 million related to the write off of substantially all of the assets other than the Spectrum from our former mobile television business. For 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the asset write down charges relate predominately to the abandonment or disposal of wireless infrastructure and the write off of site acquisition and permitting costs for wireless infrastructure that was not completed. See note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. (c)Over the last five years, we have used debt to refinance other debt and fund discretionary investments such as acquisitions and purchases of common stock. We maintain debt leverage at levels that we believe optimize our weighted average cost of capital. The following is a discussion of our debt activity for each of the last five years. See also "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesContractual Cash Obligations" and notes 6 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt, including the January 2012 refinancing. During 2010 and 2009, we issued $3.5 billion and $2.9 billion face value of debt, respectively, and purchased and repaid $3.4 billion and $2.4 billion face value of debt, respectfully. These refinancings extended the maturities of our debt portfolio and increased our weighted average cost of debt. We incurred losses on the purchase and repayment of this debt.During 2007, $1.8 billion of mortgage loans remained outstanding as a result of the merger of Global Signal with and into a subsidiary of ours ("Global Signal Merger"). We borrowed an aggregate of $725.0 million of term and revolving loans and predominately used the proceeds to purchase common stock.(d)In 2011, 2008 and 2007, we recorded impairment charges related to an other than temporary decline in the value of our investment in FiberTower Corporation. (e)The 2010 and 2009 amounts are predominately losses on various interest rate swaps that no longer qualified for hedge accounting and included swaps that were no longer economic hedges. The 2008 amount predominately represents losses on our former interest rate swaps with a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. that no longer qualified for hedge accounting. As of December 31, 2011, we had no interest rate swaps outstanding.(f)As a result of a deferred tax liability recorded in connection with the Global Signal Merger, we recorded partial tax benefits for our losses in 2010 and full tax benefits for all of 2009, 2008 and 2007. 2008 includes tax benefits of $74.9 million resulting from the completion of the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") examination of our federal tax return for 2004. See note 9 to our consolidated financial statements regarding our tax position as of and for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 and our ability to recognize tax benefits in the future. (g)No cash dividends on our common stock were declared or paid in 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 or 2007.(h)For purposes of computing the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, earnings represent income (loss) before income taxes and fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest expense, the interest component of operating leases, amortization of deferred financing costs and dividends on preferred stock classified as liabilities. For 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges by $338.1 million, $190.5 million, $153.2 million and $318.4 million, respectively.17Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsGeneral OverviewOverviewWe own, lease or manage approximately 23,800 towers, approximately 800 nodes, primarily located outdoors and approximately 150 third party land interests. Revenues generated from our core site rental business represented 91% of our 2011 consolidated net revenues. CCUSA, our largest operating segment, accounted for 94% of our 2011 site rental revenues. See "Item 1. Business" for a further discussion of our business, including our long term strategy, certain key terms of our lease agreements and growth trends in the wireless communications industry.The following are certain highlights of our business fundamentals as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011:Potential growth resulting from wireless network expansion and new entrantsWe expect wireless carriers will continue their focus on improving network quality and expanding capacity by adding additional antennas and other equipment on our wireless infrastructure.We expect existing and potential new wireless carrier demand for our wireless infrastructure will result from (1) next generation technologies, (2) continued development of mobile internet applications, (3) adoption of other emerging and embedded wireless devices, (4) increasing smartphone penetration, and (5) wireless carrier focus on expanding coverage.Substantially all of our wireless infrastructure can accommodate another tenant, either as currently constructed or with appropriate modifications to the structure.U.S. wireless carriers continue to invest in their networks.We expect our site rental revenues will grow approximately 5% from the full year 2011 to 2012. We expect our new tenant additions, inclusive of the estimated impact from Sprint as it deploys network enhancements (referred to as Network Vision), will result in an approximately 5% year over year growth in site rental revenues from 2011 to 2012, exclusive of the impact of the WCP acquisition and the anticipated closing of the NextG acquisition. Our 2012 site rental revenue growth expectations do not assume any net contribution to growth from the existing base of business (which have historically averaged approximately 4% per annum) as the increase attributable to lease escalations and straight line impact of renewals is expected to be offset by the timing of expected cancellations of customer contracts due to prior wireless carrier consolidation.Site rental revenues under long term customer contracts with contractual escalationsInitial terms of five to 15 years with multiple renewal periods at the option of the tenant of five to ten years each.Weighted average remaining term of approximately nine years, exclusive of renewals at the customers option, representing approximately $17 billion of expected future cash inflows.Revenues predominately from large wireless carriersVerizon Wireless, AT&T, Sprint and T Mobile accounted for 74% of consolidated revenues.Majority of land interests under our towers under long term controlApproximately 89% and 73% of our site rental gross margin is derived from towers that we own or control for greater than ten and 20 years, respectively. The aforementioned percentages include towers that reside on land interests that are owned in fee or where we have perpetual or long term easements, which represent approximately 34% of our site rental gross margin.Relatively fixed wireless infrastructure operating costs with high incremental margins and cash flows on organic revenue growthOur wireless infrastructure operating costs tend to increase at approximately the rate of inflation and are not typically influenced by new tenant additions.Our incremental margin on additional site rental revenues represents 91% of the related increase in site rental revenues.Minimal sustaining capital expenditure requirementsSustaining capital expenditures were $23.4 million, which represented less than 2% of net revenues.Debt portfolio with long dated maturities extended over multiple years with the vast majority of such debt having a fixed rate (see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a further discussion of our debt) 80% of our debt has fixed rate coupons, after giving effect to the WCP acquisition and the January 2012 refinancing.Our debt service coverage and leverage ratios were comfortably within our respective covenant requirements. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources" for a further discussion of our debt covenants. 18Significant cash flows from operationsNet cash provided by operating activities was $643.5 million.We believe our site rental business can be characterized as a stable cash flow stream, which we expect to grow as a result of future demand for our wireless infrastructure.Capital allocated to drive long term stockholder value (per share) (see also "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources" )Historical discretionary investments include (in no particular order): purchasing our common stock, acquiring or constructing wireless infrastructure, acquiring land interests under our towers, improving and structurally enhancing our existing wireless infrastructure, and purchasing or redeeming our debt.Discretionary investments during 2011 included: (1) the purchase of 7.4 million shares of common stock for $303.4 million; and (2) $324.6 million in capital expenditures, including $196.4 million for land interests.In December 2011, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire NextG for approximately $1.0 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments. NextG has over 7,000 nodes on air and approximately 1,500 nodes under construction. Our acquisition of NextG is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012. In January 2012, we acquired certain subsidiaries of WCP for a gross purchase price of approximately $500 million, exclusive of purchase price adjustments . Upon closing in January 2012, WCP held various contracts with wireless site owners, including approximately 2,300 ground lease related assets, of which 150 related to our wireless infrastructure. In January 2012, we refinanced and repaid our credit facility and term loans with the proceeds of a $3.1 billion senior secured credit facility, which funded the January 2012 WCP acquisition and is expected to be used to fund the NextG acquisition.Results of OperationsThe following discussion of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with "Item 1. Business," "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources" and our consolidated financial statements. The following discussion of our results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. which require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts (see "Item 7. MD&AAccounting and Reporting MattersCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and note 2 to our consolidated financial statements).19Comparison of Consolidated ResultsThe following is a comparison of our 2011, 2010 and 2009 consolidated results of operations: Years Ended December 31, Percent Change(b) 2011 2010 2009 2011vs.2010 2010vs.2009 (In thousands of dollars) Net revenues: Site rental$1,853,550 $1,700,761 $1,543,192 9 % 10%Network services and other179,179 177,897 142,215 1 25Net revenues2,032,729 1,878,658 1,685,407 8 11Operating expenses: Costs of operations(a): Site rental481,398 467,136 456,560 3 2Network services and other106,987 114,241 92,808 (6) 23Total costs of operations588,385 581,377 549,368 1 6General and administrative173,493 165,356 153,072 5 8Asset write down charges22,285 13,687 19,237 * *Acquisition and integration costs3,310 2,102 * *Depreciation, amortization and accretion552,951 540,771 529,739 2 2Total operating expenses1,340,424 1,303,293 1,251,416 3 4Operating income (loss)692,305 575,365 433,991 20 33Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs(507,587) (490,269) (445,882) * *Gains (losses) on retirement of long term obligations (138,367) (91,079) * *Net gain (loss) on interest rate swaps (286,435) (92,966) * *Interest income666 2,204 2,967 * *Other income (expense)(5,577) (603) 2,446 * *Income (loss) before income taxes179,807 (338,105) (190,523) * *Benefit (provision) for income taxes(8,347) 26,846 76,400 * *Net income (loss)171,460 (311,259) (114,123) * *Less: Net income (loss) attributable to the noncontrolling interest383 (319) 209 * *Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders$171,077 $(310,940) $(114,332) * * *Percentage is not meaningful(a)Exclusive of depreciation, amortization and accretion shown separately.(b)Inclusive of the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations. See "Item 7. MD&AResults of OperationsComparison of Operating SegmentsCCAL."2011 and 2010. Our consolidated results of operations for 2011 and 2010, respectively, predominately consist of our CCUSA segment, which accounted for (1) 94% and 95% of consolidated net revenues, (2) 94% and 95% of consolidated gross margins, and (3) 98% and 100% of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders. Virtually all of the increase in site rental revenues resulted from wireless infrastructure we owned as of January 1, 2010. Our operating segment results for 2011 and 2010, including CCUSA, are discussed below (see "Item 7. MD&AResults of OperationsComparison of Operating Segments").202010 and 2009. Our consolidated results of operations for 2010 and 2009, respectively, predominately consist of our CCUSA segment, which accounted for (1) 95% and 95% of consolidated net revenues, (2) 95% and 95% of consolidated gross margins, and (3) 100% and 101% of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders. Virtually all of the increase in site rental revenues resulted from wireless infrastructure we owned as of January 1, 2009. Our operating segment results for 2010 and 2009, including CCUSA, are discussed below (see "Item 7. MD&AResults of OperationsComparison of Operating Segments").Comparison of Operating SegmentsOur reportable operating segments for 2011 are (1) CCUSA, primarily consisting of our U.S. operations, and (2) CCAL, our Australian operations. Our financial results are reported to management and the board of directors in this manner.See note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for segment results and a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA (defined below).Our measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate our operating performance and operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and accretion, as adjusted ("Adjusted EBITDA"). Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP").We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus restructuring charges (credits), asset write down charges, acquisition and integration costs, depreciation, amortization and accretion, interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, gains (losses) on retirement of long term obligations, net gain (loss) on interest rate swaps, impairment of available for sale securities, interest income, other income (expense), benefit (provision) for income taxes, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, income (loss) from discontinued operations and stock based compensation expense (see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements). The reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to our net income (loss) is set forth in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations as determined in accordance with GAAP, and Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is discussed further under "Item 7. MD&AAccounting and Reporting MattersNon GAAP Financial Measures."CCUSA2011 and 2010. Net revenues for 2011 increased by $130.3 million, or 7%, from 2010. This increase in net revenues resulted from an increase in site rental revenues of $136.9 million, or 9%, for the same periods. This increase in site rental revenues was impacted by the following items, inclusive of straight line accounting, in no particular order: new tenant additions across our entire portfolio, renewals or extensions of customer contracts, escalations and cancellations of customer contracts. See "Item 7. MD&AAccounting and Reporting MattersCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for a further discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Tenant additions were influenced by the previously mentioned growth in the wireless communications industry. See also "Item 1. BusinessThe CompanyCCUSA."Site rental gross margins for 2011 increased by $127.8 million, or 11%, from 2010. The increase in the site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 9% increase in site rental revenues. Site rental gross margins for 2011 increased primarily as a result of the high incremental margins associated with tenant additions given the relatively fixed costs to operate wireless infrastructure. The $127.8 million incremental margin represents 93% of the related increase in site rental revenues. Network services and other revenues for 2011 decreased by $6.6 million, or 4%, from 2010, and the related gross margin increased by $5.0 million, or 8%, from 2010. The increase in our gross margin from our network services and other revenues is a reflection of the general volatility in the volume and mix of such work. Our network services business is of a variable nature as these revenues are not under long term contracts. General and administrative expenses for 2011 increased by $3.4 million, or 2%, from 2010. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock based compensation charges, as discussed further in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. General and administrative expenses increased primarily as a result of DAS operations, driven by our acquisition of NewPath in 2010. General and administrative expenses were 8% of net revenues for both 2011 and 2010. Typically, our general and administrative expenses do not significantly increase as a result of new tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure.Adjusted EBITDA for 2011 increased by $125.5 million, or 11%, from 2010. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the growth in our site rental business, including the high incremental site rental margin on the tenant additions.Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2011 increased by $9.2 million, or 2%, from 2010. This increase is consistent with the insignificant movement in our fixed assets and intangible assets, which did not materially change between 2010 and 2011.21During 2010, we repaid or purchased $3.4 billion of face value of debt using cash from our issuances of debt in order to extend the maturities of our debt portfolio. As a result of purchasing and early retiring certain of our debt, we incurred a net loss of $138.4 million for 2010, inclusive of make whole payments. During 2010, we realized losses on interest rate swaps of $286.4 million, which predominately resulted from an increase in the liability for those swaps not subject to hedge accounting due to changes in the LIBOR yield curve. All of our forward starting swaps were settled during 2010, so no further cash outflows associated with these swaps will occur. The increase in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs of $18.4 million, or 4%, in 2011 resulted predominately from a $17.5 million increase in the amortization of interest rate swaps primarily related to the loss realized in 2010 on the swaps hedging the refinancing of the 2006 tower revenue notes. For a further discussion of the debt refinancings and the interest rate swaps see notes 6 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements, "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."Benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2011 was a provision of $6.1 million compared to a benefit of $28.8 million for 2010. For 2010 and 2011, the effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate predominately due to our federal deferred valuation allowances. In addition, 2010 included $19.8 million of federal tax benefits recorded predominately as a result of discrete events, including acquisitions. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2011 was income of $168.1 million. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2010 was a loss of $310.2 million inclusive of (1) net losses from interest rate swaps of $286.4 million and (2) net losses from repayments and purchases and early retirement of debt of $138.4 million. The change from net loss to net income was predominately due to (1) the previously mentioned charges and (2) growth in our site rental and service businesses. CCAL2011 and 2010. The increases and decreases between 2011 and 2010 were inclusive of exchange rate fluctuations. The average exchange rate of Australian dollars expressed in U.S dollars for 2011 was approximately 1.03, an increase of 12% from approximately 0.92 for the same period in the prior year. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."Total net revenues for 2011 increased by $23.8 million, or 23%, from 2010. Site rental revenues for 2011 increased by $15.9 million, or 17%, from 2010. The increase in the exchange rate positively impacted net revenues and site rental revenues by approximately $13.9 million and $11.9 million, respectively, and accounted for an increase of 14% and 13%, respectively, for 2011 from 2010. Site rental revenues were also impacted by various other factors, inclusive of straight line accounting, including, in no particular order: tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure, renewals of customer contracts, escalations and cancellations of customer contracts. Net revenues were also impacted by a $7.9 million increase in network services and other revenues.Site rental gross margins increased by $10.7 million, or 17%, for 2011 from $63.3 million and Adjusted EBITDA for 2011 increased by $9.4 million, or 18%, from $53.0 million. The increase in the site rental gross margin and Adjusted EBITDA were primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2011 was a net income of $3.0 million, compared to net loss of $0.7 million for 2010. The change from net loss to net income was primarily related to the previously mentioned increase in net revenues.CCUSA2010 and 2009. Net revenues for 2010 increased by $175.1 million, or 11%, from 2009. This increase in net revenues resulted from an increase in site rental revenues of $141.6 million, or 10%, for the same periods. This increase in site rental revenues was impacted by the following items, inclusive of straight line accounting, in no particular order: new tenant additions across our entire portfolio, renewals or extensions of customer contracts, escalations and cancellations of customer contracts. See "Item 7. MD&AAccounting and Reporting MattersCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for a further discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Tenant additions were influenced by the previously mentioned growth in the wireless communications industry. We amended a site rental contract with one of our four largest customers during 2010 to provide the customer with the ability to add equipment to its existing antennas on our wireless infrastructure without the need to pay additional rent on individual amendments at each tower, with limited exceptions, in exchange for an increase in rent on the customers existing contracts. During 2010, we continued to derive a large portion of our site rental revenues from the four largest wireless carriers in the U.S., although a significant portion of our new tenant additions were from customers offering emerging wireless services, such as those offering wireless data only technologies, including Clearwire, a provider of wireless mobile internet services. See also "Item 1. BusinessThe CompanyCCUSA."Site rental gross margins for 2010 increased by $137.3 million, or 13%, from 2009. The increase in site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 10% increase in site rental revenues. Site rental gross margins for 2010 increased primarily as a result of the high incremental margins associated with tenant additions given the relatively fixed costs to operate wireless infrastructure. The $137.3 million incremental margin represents 97% of the related increase in site rental revenues.Network services and other revenues for 2010 increased by $33.6 million, or 25%, from 2009, and the related gross margin increased by $14.3 million, or 31%, from 2009. Our network services business is of a variable nature as these revenues are not 22under long term contracts. The increase in our network services and other revenues reflect our increased market share, as well as the general volatility in the volume and mix of such work. We were able to achieve this growth in revenues while modestly expanding our related gross margin. General and administrative expenses for 2010 increased by $7.2 million, or 5%, from 2009 but decreased to 8% of net revenues from 9%. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock based compensation charges, which increased by $6.8 million from 2009 to 2010, as discussed further in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. The increase in stock based compensation was driven by the furthered emphasis on the long term incentive compensation component of total compensation for senior management, which we believe further aligns compensation with stockholder value. Typically, our general and administrative expenses do not significantly increase as a result of new tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure.Adjusted EBITDA for 2010 increased by $151.6 million, or 16%, from 2009. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the growth in our site rental and services businesses, including the high incremental site rental margin on the new tenant additions.Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2010 increased by $11.4 million, or 2%, from 2009. The small increase is consistent with the movement in our fixed assets and intangible assets, which did not materially change between 2009 and 2010.During 2009 and 2010, we refinanced the vast majority of our debt in order to extend and ladder the maturities of our debt portfolio. This refinancing activity included purchasing and early retiring certain of our debt, resulting in a net loss of $138.4 million for 2010, inclusive of make whole payments. The increase in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs of $44.9 million, or 10%, in 2010 resulted predominately from (1) a $35.4 million increase in the amortization of interest rate swaps primarily related to the loss on the swaps hedging the refinancing of the 2005 tower revenue notes and the 2006 tower revenue notes and (2) the net impact of our various refinancings. During 2010, we realized losses on interest rate swaps of $286.4 million, which predominately resulted from an increase in the liability due to changes in the LIBOR yield curve for those swaps not subject to hedge accounting. As of December 31, 2010, all of our forward starting interest rate swaps are settled. For a further discussion of the debt refinancings and the interest rate swaps see notes 6 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements, "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."Benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2010 was a benefit of $28.8 million compared to a benefit of $77.7 million for 2009. As further discussed in note 9 to our consolidated financial statements, we were limited in our ability to recognize federal tax benefits on our losses during 2010, except for $19.8 million of federal tax benefits recorded predominately as a result of discrete events, including acquisitions. As of December 31, 2010, we are unable to recognize additional federal tax benefits in future periods unless discrete events allow us to record additional deferred tax liabilities. Tax benefits for 2010 predominately reflect our recognition of federal tax benefits on our losses and a reversal of $20.6 million of state tax valuation allowance. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2010 was a loss of $310.2 million, inclusive of (1) net losses from interest rate swaps of $286.4 million and (2) net losses from repayments and purchases and early retirement of debt of $138.4 million. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2009 was a loss of $115.4 million, inclusive of (1) net losses from repayments and purchases and early retirement of debt of $91.1 million and (2) net losses from interest rate swaps of $93.0 million. The increase in net loss was predominately due to (1) the previously mentioned charges and benefits and (2) the previously mentioned increase in interest expense of $44.9 million, partially offset by (3) growth in our site rental and service businesses. CCAL2010 and 2009. The increases and decreases between 2010 and 2009 are inclusive of exchange rate fluctuations. The average exchange rate of Australian dollars to U.S dollars for 2010 was approximately 0.92, an increase of 16% from approximately 0.79 for the same period in the prior year. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."Total net revenues for 2010 increased by $18.1 million, or 21%, from 2009. Site rental revenues for 2010 increased by $16.0 million, or 21%, from 2009. The increase in the exchange rate positively impacted net revenues and site rental revenues by approximately $14.3 million and $12.9 million, respectively, and accounted for an increase of 17% in both net revenues and site rental revenues for 2010 from 2009. Site rental revenues were also impacted by various other factors inclusive of straight line accounting, including, in no particular order: new tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure, renewals of customer contracts, escalations and cancellations of customer contracts. Site rental gross margins increased by $9.7 million, or 18%, for 2010 from $53.6 million, and Adjusted EBITDA for 2010 increased by $7.0 million, or 15%, from 2010. The increase in the site rental gross margin and Adjusted EBITDA were predominately due to exchange rate fluctuations. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2010 was a net loss of $0.7 million, compared to a net income of $1.1 million for 2009. The change from net income to net loss was predominately due to the following, exclusive of the impact 23from exchange rate fluctuations: (1) an increase in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, the majority of which was due to an increase in the variable interest rate of our intercompany debt, (2) an increase in general and administrative expenses due to an increase in stock based compensation, and (3) lower depreciation expense for 2011, as a result of recording depreciation expense for towers that were acquired in 2008 with short useful lives for accounting purposes driven by the short term of the underlying ground lease.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesOverviewGeneral. We believe our site rental business can be characterized as a stable cash flow stream, generated by revenues under long term contracts (see "Item 7. MD&AGeneral OverviewOverview"). Since we became a public company in 1998, our cumulative net cash provided by operating activities (net of cash interest payments) has exceeded our capital expenditures and provided us with cash available for discretionary investments. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to generate net cash provided by operating activities that exceeds our capital expenditures and will be available for discretionary investments. In addition to investing net cash provided by operating activities, in certain circumstances, we may also use debt financings and issuances of equity or equity related securities to fund discretionary investments. We seek to allocate the net cash provided by our operating activities in a manner that will enhance per share operating results. Our historical discretionary investments include (in no particular order): purchasing our common stock, acquiring or constructing wireless infrastructure, acquiring land interests under our towers, improving and structurally enhancing our existing wireless infrastructure, and purchasing or redeeming our debt. We seek to maintain a capital structure that we believe drives long term stockholder value and optimizes our weighted average cost of capital. We target a leverage ratio of approximately four to six times Adjusted EBITDA and interest coverage of approximately three times Adjusted EBITDA, subject to various factors such as the availability and cost of capital and the potential long term return on our discretionary investments. We may choose to increase or decrease our leverage and coverage from these targets for various periods of time. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. Currently we endeavor to utilize our net cash provided by operating activities to engage in discretionary investments. We seek to maintain flexibility in our discretionary investments with both net cash provided by operating activities and cash available from financing capacity. Periodically, our board of directors assesses the advisability of declaring and paying cash dividends at some point in the future, based on the then current and anticipated future conditions, including our earnings, net cash provided by operating activities, capital requirements, financial condition, our relative market capitalization, taxable income, taxpayer status, and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors. We pay minimal cash income taxes as a result of our net operating loss carryforwards. We may generate taxable income in the future, and if so, we may utilize all or a portion of our $2.5 billion of federal net operating losses to offset such income. If we were to approach the exhaustion of our net operating loss carryforwards or if there were relevant tax law changes, we would evaluate our options with respect to appropriately managing our tax position . These options may include a conversion to a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), which would require the payment of dividends on our common stock. If we were to convert to a REIT, we expect that certain subsidiaries would not qualify as a REIT and would continue to be subject to corporate income taxes. Liquidity Position. The following is a summary of our capitalization and liquidity position after giving effect to the WCP acquisition, the January 2012 refinancing and the preferred stock conversion expected to occur in February 2012. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and notes 6 and 8 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt. December 31, 2011 (In thousands of dollars)Cash and cash equivalents(a)(c)$563,951Undrawn revolving credit facility availability(b)1,000,000Debt and other long term obligations(c)7,935,673Stockholders equity2,688,557 (a)Exclusive of restricted cash.(b)Availability at any point in time is subject to reaffirmation of the representations and warranties in, and there being no default under, our credit agreement. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesFinancing Activities" and "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesDebt Covenants."(c)Exclusive of the $500.0 million delayed draw term loan.24During January 2012, we refinanced our credit facility through (1) a $500.0 million undrawn delayed draw term loan due in 2017, (2) a $1.6 billion term loan due in 2019, and (3) a $1.0 billion undrawn revolving credit facility due in 2017. This refinancing effectively extended the maturity of our credit facility and provided funding for the WCP acquisition and the anticipated acquisition of the NextG (for approximately $1.0 billion of cash, subject to adjustment), which is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012. See notes 6 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements.Over the next 12 months: we expect that our cash on hand, undrawn revolving credit facility availability, the proceeds of our $500.0 million delayed draw credit facility and net cash provided by operating activities (net of cash interest payments) should be sufficient to cover our expected (1) debt service obligations of $32.5 million (principal payments), (2) capital expenditures of roughly $350 million (sustaining and discretionary) and (3) NextG acquisition. As CCIC and CCOC are holding companies, this cash flow from operations is generated by our operating subsidiaries.we have no debt maturities other than principal payments on amortizing debt. We do not anticipate the need to access the capital markets to refinance our existing debt until at least 2015. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a tabular presentation of our debt maturities as of December 31, 2011.Summary Cash Flows Information Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (In thousands of dollars)Net cash provided by (used for): Operating activities$643,454 $603,430 $571,256Investing activities(399,865) (390,949) (172,145)Financing activities(275,712) (866,624) 214,396Effect of exchange rate changes on cash(288) 528 (2,580)Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(32,411) $(653,615) $610,927Operating ActivitiesThe increase in net cash provided by operating activities for 2011 from 2010 and 2009 was due primarily to growth in our core site rental business, partially offset by changes in working capital. The year over year decrease in working capital from 2010 to 2011 of $86.3 million resulted primarily from changes in deferred site rental receivables and deferred revenues. Changes in working capital, and particularly changes in deferred site rental receivables, deferred rental revenues, prepaid ground leases, restricted cash and accrued interest, can have a significant impact on net cash provided by operating activities, largely due to the timing of prepayments and receipts. We expect net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 will be sufficient to cover the next 12 months of our expected debt service obligations and capital expenditures. We expect to grow our net cash provided by operating activities in the future (exclusive of movements in working capital) if we realize expected growth in our site rental business.Investing ActivitiesCapital Expenditures. We categorize our capital expenditures as sustaining or discretionary. Sustaining capital expenditures include capitalized costs related to (1) maintenance activities on our wireless infrastructure, which are generally related to replacements and upgrades that extend the life of the asset, (2) vehicles, (3) information technology equipment, and (4) office equipment. Discretionary capital expenditures, which we also commonly refer to as "revenue generating capital expenditures," include (1) purchases of land interests under towers, (2) wireless infrastructure improvements in order to support additional site rentals, and (3) the construction of wireless infrastructure. A summary of our capital expenditures for the last three years is as follows: 25 For Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (In thousands of dollars)Discretionary: Purchases of land interests$196,380 $109,097 $25,495Wireless infrastructure improvements and other82,780 73,917 101,298Construction of wireless infrastructure45,391 20,718 18,683Sustaining23,391 24,326 28,059Total$347,942 $228,058 $173,535Other than sustaining capital expenditures, which we expect to be approximately $22 million to $27 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, our capital expenditures are discretionary and are made with respect to activities which we believe exhibit sufficient potential to improve our long term results of operations on a per share basis. We expect to use roughly $350 million of our cash flows on capital expenditures (sustaining and discretionary) for full year 2012, with less than one fourth of our total capital expenditures targeted for our existing wireless infrastructure assets related to customer installations and related capacity improvement. Our decisions regarding capital expenditures are influenced by the availability and cost of capital and expected returns on alternative investments. The following is a discussion of certain aspects of our capital expenditures.We increased our purchases of land interests from 2010 to 2011 as a result of our focus on maintaining long term control of our assets. We expect to retain long term control of our towers by continuing to supplement land interest purchases with extensions of the terms of ground leases for land under our towers. Purchases of land interests for 2011 included $87.7 million for perpetual easements and other interests purchased in a single transaction. Total consideration for this single transaction was $89.3 million. Wireless infrastructure improvement capital expenditures typically vary based on (1) the type of work performed on the wireless infrastructure, with the installation of a new antenna typically requiring greater capital expenditures than a modification to an existing installation, (2) the existing capacity of the wireless structure prior to installation and (3) changes in structural engineering regulations and our internal structural standards. Acquisitions. See note 20 for a discussion of the definitive agreement to acquire NextG and the WCP acquisition. See note 3 for a discussion of the acquisition of NewPath in 2010.Financing ActivitiesWe seek to allocate cash generated by our operations in a manner that will enhance per share operating results, which may include various financing activities, such as (in no particular order) purchasing our common stock and purchasing or redeeming our debt. During 2010 and 2009, we extended the maturities of our debt by issuing an aggregate $6.3 billion face value of debt and purchased and repaid $5.8 billion face value of debt. Since the beginning of 2009, we have purchased an aggregate of 11.6 million shares of common stock for $465.9 million, which we believe is consistent with our objective to drive per share operating results. In the beginning of 2012, our financing activities predominately related to refinancing our credit facility, which effectively extended the maturity of our credit facility as well as provided funding for the WCP acquisition and the expected closing of the NextG acquisition. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesOverview" and note 20 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the January 2012 refinancing.Incurrence of Debt. See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our issuances of debt during 2009 and 2010, which extended the maturities of our debt portfolio. As of December 31, 2011, 71% of our CCUSA towers and the cash flows from these towers effectively secure $4.6 billion of our debt. In addition, distributions paid from our entities that hold approximately 4,900 towers will also service this secured debt. In addition, nearly all of the third party land interests and other assets acquired in the WCP acquisition and the cash flows derived therefrom are effectively pledged as security on the debt assumed in connection with the WCP acquisition. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesOverviewLiquidity Position" and note 20 to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion on the refinancing of our credit facility in January 2012.Debt Purchases and Repayments. See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our purchases and repayments of debt during 2009 and 2010, including the gains (losses) on retirement of long term obligations. See note 20 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the refinancing of our credit facility in January 2012.Interest Rate Swaps. During 2010, we settled all of our forward starting interest rate swaps. See note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of interest rate swaps.26Common Stock and Preferred Stock Activity. As of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we had 284.4 million, 290.8 million and 292.7 million common shares outstanding, respectively. During 2011, we purchased 7.4 million shares of common stock at an average price of $41.12 per share utilizing $303.4 million in cash. We may continue to purchase our common stock in the future as we seek to allocate capital to discretionary investments in a manner that we believe will enhance per share results. During 2011, we paid $15.0 million to purchase a portion of our 6.25% redeemable convertible preferred stock, thereby reducing the number of common shares issuable upon conversion of such preferred stock by 0.3 million. In January 2012, we exercised our right to convert all of the outstanding 6.25% redeemable convertible preferred stock into 8.3 million shares of common stock. See "Item 1. BusinessStrategy" and note 20 to our consolidated financial statements.Revolving Credit Facility. The proceeds of our revolving credit facility may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include the financing of capital expenditures, acquisitions and purchases of our common stock. Typically, we use our revolving credit facility to fund discretionary investments and not for operating activities, such as working capital, which are typically funded by net cash provided by operating activities. As of February 6, 2012, there were no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesOverview" and note 20 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our January 2012 refinancing.Restricted Cash. Pursuant to the indentures governing our operating companies debt securities, all rental cash receipts of the issuers of these debt instruments and their subsidiaries are restricted and held by an indenture trustee. The restricted cash in excess of required reserve balances is subsequently released to us in accordance with the terms of the indentures. See also notes 2 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements.Contractual Cash ObligationsThe following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2011 after giving effect to the WCP acquisition, the January 2012 refinancing and the preferred stock conversion. These contractual cash obligations relate primarily to our outstanding borrowings and lease obligations for land interests under our towers. The debt maturities reflect contractual maturity dates and do not consider the impact of the principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates on the tower revenue notes (see footnote (c)). Years Ending December 31,Contractual Obligations (a)2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Totals (In thousands of dollars)Debt and other long term obligations(b)(c)(d)$49,864 $60,313 $60,806 $927,537 $59,712 $6,850,047 $8,008,279Interest payments on debt and other long term obligations(c)(d)(e)461,796 465,976 463,091 446,096 419,272 8,262,405 10,518,636Lease obligations(f)301,264 305,278 307,267 308,801 311,242 3,907,901 5,441,753Definitive acquisition agreements(g)1,009,865 1,009,865Other6,555 1,489 1,981 1,147 871 12,043Total contractual obligations$1,829,344 $833,056 $833,145 $1,683,581 $791,097 $19,020,353 $24,990,576 (a)The following items are in addition to the obligations disclosed in the above table:We have a legal obligation to perform certain asset retirement activities, including requirements upon lease and easement terminations to remove wireless infrastructure or remediate the land upon which our wireless infrastructure resides. The cash obligations disclosed in the above table, as of December 31, 2011, are exclusive of estimated undiscounted future cash outlays for asset retirement obligations of approximately $1.4 billion. As of December 31, 2011, the net present value of these asset retirement obligations was approximately $68.5 million.We are contractually obligated under letters of credit to various landlords, insurers and other parties in connection with certain contingent retirement obligations under various wireless infrastructure land interest leases and certain other contractual obligations. The letters of credit were issued through one of CCUSAs lenders in amounts aggregating $10.8 million and expire on various dates through December 2012.We are contractually obligated to pay or reimburse others for property taxes related to our wireless infrastructure. See note 14 to our consolidated financial statements.(b)Inclusive of $47.8 million related in installment purchases of land interests.(c)The impact of principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates of our tower revenue notes are not considered. The anticipated repayment dates for the tower revenue notes are in 2015, 2017 and 2020. If the tower revenue notes are not repaid in full by the applicable anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by approximately 5% per annum and monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The tower revenue notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates ranging from 2035 to 2040 and include the impact of an assumed 5% increase in interest rate that would occur following the anticipated repayment dates but exclude the impact of monthly principal payments that would commence using Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The full year 2011 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes was approximately $456 million. The anticipated repayment date is 2015 for each class of the debt assumed in connection with the WCP acquisition ("WCP securitized notes"). (d)If the WCP securitized notes are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by an additional approximately 5% per annum. If the WCP securitized notes are not repaid in full by their rapid amortization date of 2017, monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes. The WCP securitized notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates in 272040. The full year 2011 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes was approximately $17 million. In connection with the WCP acquisition, we acquired restricted cash of $29.5 million that if not spent on towers or third party land interests by November 2012 will be required to be used to repay principal amounts outstanding on the WCP securitized notes. (e)Interest payments on the floating rate debt are based on estimated rates currently in effect.(f)Amounts relate primarily to lease obligations for the land interests on which our wireless infrastructure resides, and are based on the assumption that payments will be made through the end of the period for which we hold renewal rights. See table below summarizing remaining terms to expiration.(g)In December 2011, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire NextG for approximately $1.0 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments. The following table summarizes our rights to the land interests under our towers, including renewal terms at our option, as of December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the leases for land interests under our towers had an average remaining life of approximately 31 years, weighted based on site rental gross margin. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors." Remaining Term, In Years(c) Percent of Total Towers Percent of Total Site RentalGross Margins(a)(b)Owned in fee or perpetual or long term easements 27% 34%20+ years 40% 39%10 years to less than 20 years 20% 16%5 years to less than 10 years 9% 8%1 year to less than 5 years 3% 2%0 to less than 1 year 1% 1%Total 100% 100% (a)For the year ended December 31, 2011.(b)Without consideration of the term of the customer contract agreement.(c)Inclusive of renewal terms at our option.Debt CovenantsOur debt obligations contain certain financial covenants with which CCIC or our subsidiaries must maintain compliance in order to avoid the imposition of certain restrictions. Various of our debt obligations also place other restrictions on CCIC or our subsidiaries, which may include the ability to incur debt and liens, purchase our securities, make capital expenditures, dispose of assets, undertake transactions with affiliates, make other investments and pay dividends. We are permitted to issue additional indebtedness at CCIC and at our operating subsidiaries subject to compliance with the covenants governing our debt (including the below mentioned restrictive covenants) and meeting certain other requirements, which may include obtaining rating agency confirmations. See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt covenants.Factors that are likely to determine our subsidiaries ability to comply with their current and future debt covenants include their (1) financial performance, (2) levels of indebtedness, and (3) debt service requirements. Given the current level of indebtedness and debt services requirements of our subsidiaries, the primary risk of a debt covenant violation would be from a deterioration of a subsidiarys financial performance. Should a covenant violation occur in the future as a result of a shortfall in financial performance (or for any other reason), we might be required to make principal payments earlier than currently scheduled and may not have access to additional borrowings under these debt instruments as long as the covenant violation continues. If we fail to comply with the debt restrictions, we will be in default under those instruments, which could cause the maturity of a substantial portion of our long term indebtedness to be accelerated. If our operating subsidiaries were to default on the debt, the trustee could seek to pursue the collateral securing the debt, in which case we could lose the wireless infrastructure and the future revenues associated with such wireless infrastructure. We currently have no financial covenant violations; and based upon our current expectations, we believe our operating results will be sufficient to comply with our debt covenants over the near and long term. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors."The following are the ratios applicable to the financial maintenance, restrictive and cash trap reserve covenants under our debt agreements, after giving effect to the WCP acquisition and the January 2012 refinancing. 28 Type Debt CurrentCovenantRequirement As ofDecember 31,2011 Latest Issuance DateCCIC: Leverage ratioRestrictive(f)9% Senior Notes 7.00 5.9 6.7Leverage ratioRestrictive(f)7.125% Senior Notes 7.00 5.9 6.3CCOC: Net leverage ratio(a)Maintenance(g)Credit Agreement 6.0 4.8 4.8Interest coverage ratio(b)Maintenance(g)Credit Agreement 2.5 3.9 3.9Tower and third party land interest companies: Debt service coverage ratio(c)(d)Cash Trap(h)2010 Tower Revenue Notes &gt;1.75 3.6 3.1Debt service coverage ratio(c)(d)Cash Trap(h)2009 Securitized Notes &gt;1.30 3.0 2.4Fixed charge coverage ratio(c)(d)Cash Trap(h)7.75% Secured Notes &gt;1.35 3.1 2.5Debt service coverage ratio(e)Cash Trap(h)WCP Securitized Notes 1.30 2.0 N/A (a)The Total Net Leverage Ratio for CCOC is calculated as the ratio of Total Indebtedness (excluding debt held by CCIC) less Unrestricted Cash (as defined in the credit agreement and calculated in accordance with GAAP) to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) for the most recently completed quarter multiplied by four. In March 2014, the covenant requirement decreases to a maximum Total Net Leverage Ratio of 5.50 to 1.00. Consolidated EBITDA is calculated in substantially the same manner as Adjusted EBITDA used in our segment reporting, which is discussed further in "Item 7. MD&AAccounting and Reporting MattersNon GAAP Financial Measures" and note 16 to our consolidated financial statements.(b)The Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio for CCOC is calculated as the ratio of Consolidated EBITDA for the most recently completed quarter multiplied by four to Consolidated Pro forma Debt Service (as defined in the credit agreement). Consolidated Pro forma Debt Service is calculated as interest to be paid over the succeeding 12 months on the principal balance of debt (excluding debt held by CCIC, CCOC or any restricted subsidiary) then outstanding based on the then current interest rate for such debt.(c)The 2009 securitized notes and 2010 tower revenue notes also have amortization coverage thresholds of 1.15 and 1.45, respectively, which could result in applying current and future cash in the reserve account to prepay the debt with applicable prepayment consideration. For the 7.75% secured notes, if the Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is equal to or less than 1.20 and the aggregate amount of cash deposited in the Cash Trap Reserve Sub account (as defined in the indenture) exceeds $100.0 million, the issuing subsidiaries will be required to commence an offer to purchase the 7.75% secured notes using the cash in such account. See note (d) below for a discussion of the calculation of the Debt Service Coverage Ratio and Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio.(d)The Debt Service Coverage Ratio and Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio are both calculated as site rental revenue (in accordance with GAAP), less: (1) cost of operations (in accordance with GAAP), (2) straight line rental revenues, (3) straight line ground lease expenses, (4) management fees, and (5) sustaining capital expenditures, using the results for the previous 12 months then ended to the amount of interest to be paid over the succeeding 12 months per the terms of the respective agreement. (e)In connection with the WCP acquisition, we assumed WCPs debt of approximately $320 million . The Debt Service Coverage Ratio on the WCP securitized debt is calculated as Net Cash Flow (as defined in the indenture) less: (1) the Series 2010 1 Class A Targeted Amortization Amounts (as defined in the indenture) for the immediately succeeding 12 payment dates and (2) the Unpaid Series 2010 1 Class A Monthly Amortization Amount (as defined in the indenture) to the payments of interest that the issuers of such debt will be required to pay on the succeeding 12 payment dates on the principal balance of the WCP securitized notes. The WCP securitized debt also has an amortization threshold of 1.15, which could result in applying all Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the indenture) to prepay principal amounts with applicable prepayment consideration. In addition, if the Non Performing Wireless Site Contract Ratio (as defined in the indenture) on the WCP securitized notes is greater than 10%, it could result in applying all Excess Cash Flow to prepay principal amounts with applicable prepayment consideration. (f)The 9% senior notes and 7.125% senior notes contain restrictive covenants with which CCIC and our restricted subsidiaries must comply, subject to a number of exceptions and qualifications, including restrictions on our ability to incur incremental debt, issue preferred stock, guarantee debt, pay dividends, repurchase our capital stock, use assets as security in other transactions, sell assets or merge with or into other companies, and make certain investments. Certain of these covenants are not applicable if there is no event of default and if the ratio of our Consolidated Debt (as defined in the senior notes indenture) to our Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flows (as defined in the senior notes indenture) is less than 7.0 to 1. (g)Failure to comply with the ratios applicable to the financial maintenance could result in default under our credit agreement.(h)Failure to comply with the cash trap reserve covenants would require the cash flows generated by the issuers and their subsidiaries to be deposited in a reserve account and not released to us.Off balance Sheet ArrangementsWe have no off balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S K.Accounting and Reporting MattersCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe following is a discussion of the accounting policies and estimates that we believe (1) are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and (2) require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The critical accounting policies and estimates for 2011 are not intended to be a comprehensive list of our accounting policies and estimates. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our significant accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular 29transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP, with no need for managements judgment. In other cases, management is required to exercise judgment in the application of accounting principles with respect to particular transactions.Revenue Recognition. Over 91% of our total revenue for 2011 consists of site rental revenues, which are recognized on a monthly basis over the fixed, non cancelable term of the relevant contract (generally ranging from five to 15 years), regardless of whether the payments from the customer are received in equal monthly amounts. If the payment terms call for fixed escalations (as in fixed dollar or fixed percentage increases) or rent free periods, the effect is recognized on a straight line basis over the fixed, non cancelable term of the contract. When calculating our straight line rental revenues, we consider all fixed elements of tenant contractual escalation provisions, even if such escalation provisions contain a variable element (such as an escalator tied to an inflation based index) in addition to a minimum. Any up front billings to customers for their negotiated share of the cost of wireless infrastructure modifications required to accommodate the installation of customer equipment are initially deferred and recognized over the term of the applicable site rental contract. Since we recognize revenue on a straight line basis, a portion of the site rental revenue in a given period represents cash collected or contractually collectible in other periods. We record a deferred site rental receivable for the difference between the straight lined amount and the rent billed. We record an allowance for uncollectible deferred site rental revenues for which increases or reversals of this allowance impact our site rental revenues. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.We provide network services relating to our wireless infrastructure, which represent less than 9% of our total revenues for 2011. Network services and other revenue relate to installation services, as well as the following additional site development services relating to existing and new antenna installations on our wireless infrastructure: site acquisition, architectural and engineering, zoning and permitting, fiber installations, other construction and other services related to network development. Network services revenues are recognized after completion of the applicable service. We account for network services separately from the customers subsequent site rental. See "Item 1. BusinessCCUSA" for a further discussion of our site rental and network services business. Accounting for Long Lived Assets Valuation. As of December 31, 2011, our largest asset was our telecommunications towers (representing approximately $3.6 billion, or 73%, of our $4.9 billion in net book value of property and equipment), followed by intangible assets and goodwill (approximately $2.2 billion and $2.0 billion in net book value, respectively, resulting predominately from the Global Signal Merger in 2007 and other acquisitions of large tower portfolios). Nearly all (approximately $2.1 billion net book value at December 31, 2011) of our identifiable intangibles relate to the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the nature and composition of the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets.For our business combinations, we allocate the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. Any purchase price in excess of the net fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. The fair value of the vast majority of our assets and liabilities is determined by using either:(1)estimates of replacement costs (for tangible fixed assets such as towers) or(2)discounted cash flow valuation methods (for estimating identifiable intangibles such as site rental contracts and customer relationships and above market and below market leases).The purchase price allocation requires subjective estimates that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements, including the amount of depreciation, amortization and accretion expense. The most important estimates for measurement of tangible fixed assets are (1) the cost to replace the asset with a new asset and (2) the economic useful life after giving effect to age, quality and condition. The most important estimates for measurement of intangible assets are (1) discount rates and (2) timing and amount of cash flows including estimates regarding customer renewals and cancellations. The determination of the final purchase price allocation could extend over several quarters resulting in the use of preliminary estimates that are subject to adjustment until finalized.We record the fair value of obligations to perform certain asset retirement activities, including requirements, pursuant to our ground leases and easements, to remove wireless infrastructure or remediate the land upon which our wireless infrastructure resides. In determining the fair value of these asset retirement obligations we must make several subjective and highly judgmental estimates such as those related to: (1) timing of cash flows, (2) future costs, (3) discount rates and (4) the probability of enforcement to remove the wireless infrastructure or remediate the land. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.Accounting for Long Lived Assets Useful Lives. We are required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of our tangible and intangible assets for purposes of determining depreciation, amortization and accretion expense that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Depreciation expense for our property and equipment is computed using the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of our various classes of tangible assets. The substantial portion of our property and equipment represents the cost of our wireless infrastructure which is depreciated with an estimated 30useful life equal to the shorter of (1) 20 years or (2) the term of the lease (including optional renewals) for the land interests under the wireless infrastructure.The useful life of our intangible assets are estimated based on the period over which the intangible asset is expected to benefit us and gives consideration to the expected useful life of other assets to which the useful life may relate. Amortization expense for intangible assets is computed using the straight line method over the estimated useful life of each of the intangible assets. The useful life of the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets is limited by the maximum depreciable life of the wireless infrastructure (20 years), as a result of the interdependency of the wireless infrastructure and site rental contracts and customer relationships. In contrast, the site rental contracts and customer relationships are estimated to provide economic benefits for several decades because of the low rate of customer cancellations and high rate of renewals experienced to date. Thus, while site rental contracts and customer relationships are valued based upon the fair value of the site rental contracts and customer relationships which includes assumptions regarding both (1) customers exercise of optional renewals contained in the acquired contracts and (2) renewals of the acquired contracts past the contractual term including exercisable options, the site rental contracts are amortized over a period not to exceed 20 years as a result of the useful life being limited by the depreciable life of the wireless infrastructure.Accounting for Long Lived Assets Impairment Evaluation Intangibles. We review the carrying values of property and equipment, intangible assets and other long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We utilize the following dual grouping policy for purposes of determining the unit of account for testing impairment of the site rental contracts and customer relationships:(1)we pool site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment into portfolio groups and(2)we separately pool site rental contracts and customer relationships by significant customer or by customer grouping for individually insignificant customers, as appropriate.We first pool site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment into portfolio groups for purposes of determining the unit of account for impairment testing, because we view wireless infrastructure as portfolios and wireless infrastructure in a given portfolio and its related customer contracts are not largely independent of the other wireless infrastructure in the portfolio. We re evaluate the appropriateness of the pooled groups at least annually. This use of grouping is based in part on (1) our limitations regarding disposal of wireless infrastructure, (2) the interdependencies of wireless infrastructure portfolios and (3) the manner in which wireless infrastructure is traded in the marketplace. The vast majority of our site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment are pooled into the U.S. owned wireless infrastructure group. Secondly, and separately, we pool site rental contracts and customer relationships by significant customer or by customer grouping for individually insignificant customers, as appropriate, for purposes of determining the unit of account for impairment testing because we associate the value ascribed to site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets to the underlying contracts and related customer relationships acquired.Our determination that an adverse event or change in circumstance has occurred that indicates that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable will generally involve (1) a deterioration in an assets financial performance compared to historical results, (2) a shortfall in an assets financial performance compared to forecasted results, or (3) changes affecting the utility and estimated future demands for the asset. When considering the utility of our assets, we consider events that would meaningfully impact (1) our wireless infrastructure or (2) our customer relationships. For example, consideration would be given to events that impact (1) the structural integrity and longevity of our wireless infrastructure or (2) our ability to derive benefit from our existing customer relationships, including events such as bankruptcy or insolvency or loss of a significant customer. During 2011, there were no events or circumstances that caused us to review the carrying value of our intangible assets and property and equipment due in part to our assets performing consistently with or better than our expectations.If the sum of the estimated future cash flows (undiscounted) from an asset, or portfolio group, significant customer or customer group (for individually insignificant customers), as applicable, is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss may be recognized. If the carrying value were to exceed the undiscounted cash flows, measurement of an impairment loss would be based on the fair value of the asset, which is based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows. The most important estimates for such calculations of undiscounted cash flows are (1) the expected additions of new tenants and equipment on our wireless infrastructure and (2) estimates regarding customer cancellations and renewals of contracts. We could record impairments in the future if changes in long term market conditions, expected future operating results or the utility of the assets results in changes for our impairment test calculations which negatively impact the fair value of our property and equipment and intangible assets, or if we changed our unit of account in the future.When grouping assets into pools for purposes of impairment evaluation, we also consider individual towers, nodes and third party land interests within a grouping for which we currently have no tenants. Approximately 3% of our total towers currently 31have no tenants. We continue to pay operating expenses on these towers in anticipation of obtaining tenants on these towers in the future, primarily because of the individual tower site demographics. In fact, we have current visibility to potential tenants on approximately half of these towers. To the extent we do not believe there are long term prospects of obtaining tenants on an individual tower, node or third party land interest and all other possible avenues for recovering the carrying value has been exhausted, including sale of the asset, we appropriately reduce the carrying value of such assets.Accounting for Long Lived Assets Impairment Evaluation Goodwill. Nearly all of our goodwill is recorded at CCUSA. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, regardless of whether adverse events or changes in circumstances have occurred. The annual test begins with goodwill and all intangible assets being allocated to applicable reporting units. We then perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If it is concluded that it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it is necessary to perform the two step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise the two step goodwill impairment test is not required. Our reporting units are the operating segments since segment management operates their respective wireless infrastructure portfolios as a single network. We performed our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2011 utilizing the qualitative assessment. We determined that the "more likely than not" threshold was achieved and no further testing of goodwill was required. This assessment was based in part on the fair value of our net assets as measured by our market capitalization exceeding by over five times the aggregate carrying amount of the reporting units as of December 31, 2011. Deferred Income Taxes. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet related to events that impact our financial statements and tax returns in different periods. In order to compute these deferred tax balances, we first analyze the differences between the book basis and tax basis of our assets and liabilities (referred to as "temporary differences"). These temporary differences are then multiplied by current tax rates to arrive at the balances for the deferred income tax assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is provided on deferred tax assets that do not meet the "more likely than not" realization threshold. We recognize a tax position if it is more likely than not it will be sustained upon examination. The tax position is measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. If our expectations about the future tax consequences of past events should prove to be inaccurate, the balances of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities could require significant adjustments in future periods. Such adjustments could cause a material effect on our results of operations for the period of the adjustment. Before giving effect to any valuation allowances, we are in an overall net deferred tax asset position in the U.S. and Australia. During 2011, in our judgment, the deferred tax assets did not meet the "more likely than not" realization threshold under GAAP principally due to our recent history of substantial losses, and as a result, we continued to record a valuation allowance fully offsetting our net deferred tax assets. Our U.S. federal and Australia valuation allowances comprise the majority of the total allowance and amounted to $130.2 million and $64.1 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. Although we reported pre tax earnings in 2011, because of the fully reserved deferred position, the impact of taxes on our net income for 2011 is immaterial. See note 9 to our consolidated financial statements.We intend to review our conclusion about the appropriate amount of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance in light of circumstances existing in future periods. Should we continue to generate earnings at the level generated in 2011, this positive evidence would likely change our conclusion as to the realizability of the deferred tax assets which would result in a reversal of some or all of the valuation allowance. Given the importance of future annual earnings to this assessment, managements consideration would likely extend to late 2012 unless events or changes in circumstances lead to a change in our conclusion before then. One potential transaction that could result in adjustment of our valuation allowance is the consummation of our recently announced agreement to acquire NextG (see note 20 to the our consolidated financial statements). If the NextG acquisition is consummated, because of the expected significant deferred tax liabilities that would be recorded in purchase accounting related to the target company, we would likely be required to reverse a substantial portion of our existing U.S. federal valuation allowance to earnings as the acquired deferred tax liabilities would serve to offset our deferred tax assets eliminating the need for some or all of the related valuation allowance. Any future reversal of the valuation allowance would have a favorable impact on our net income but would have no effect on our cash flows. While a reversal, if any, of the valuation allowance would have a positive effect on the Companys net income in the period of reversal, our net income in periods after such reversal would be reduced as a result of an increase in the provision for income taxes to approximately the statutory rate.Impact of Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Adopted and Those Adopted in 2011 In October 2009, Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued guidance that addressed how to recognize revenue for transactions with multiple deliverables. This guidance revises the criteria for separating, measuring and allocating arrangement consideration to each consideration deliverable, which must be estimated if there is not a history of selling the deliverable on a 32stand alone basis or third party evidence of selling price. The provisions of this guidance were effective for us as of January 1, 2011 and were applied prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and did not result in a change to the pattern and timing of our revenue recognition.In September 2011, the FASB issued an amendment to the guidance on goodwill impairment testing. The amended guidance permits an entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If it is concluded that it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it is then necessary to perform the two step goodwill impairment test, which is discussed further in note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. Otherwise, the two step goodwill impairment test is not required. We have adopted this amended guidance effective during 2011. See "Item 7. MD&AAccounting and Reporting MattersCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesAccounting for Long Lived AssetsImpairment EvaluationGoodwill."Non GAAP Financial MeasuresOur measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate the operating performance of our operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and accretion, as adjusted, or Adjusted EBITDA. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA is set forth in "Item 7. MD&AResults of OperationsComparison of Operating Segments." Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating income or loss, net income or loss, net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities or other income statement or cash flow statement data prepared in accordance with GAAP.We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to an investor in evaluating our operating performance because:it is the primary measure used by our management to evaluate the economic productivity of our operations, including the efficiency of our employees and the profitability associated with their performance, the realization of contract revenue under our long term contracts, our ability to obtain and maintain our customers and our ability to operate our site rental business effectively;it is the primary measure of profit and loss used by management for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;it is similar to the measure of current financial performance generally used in our debt covenant calculations;although specific definitions may vary, it is widely used in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure to measure operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation, amortization and accretion, which can vary depending upon accounting methods and the book value of assets; andwe believe it helps investors meaningfully evaluate and compare the results of our operations from (1) period to period and (2) to our competitors by removing the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization and accretion) from our operating results.Our management uses Adjusted EBITDA:with respect to compliance with our debt covenants, which require us to maintain certain financial ratios including, or similar to, Adjusted EBITDA;as the primary measure of profit and loss for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;as a performance goal in employee annual incentive compensation;as a measurement of operating performance because it assists us in comparing our operating performance on a consistent basis as it removes the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization and accretion) from our operating results;in presentations to our board of directors to enable it to have the same measurement of operating performance used by management;for planning purposes, including preparation of our annual operating budget;as a valuation measure in strategic analyses in connection with the purchase and sale of assets; andin determining self imposed limits on our debt levels, including the evaluation of our leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio.There are material limitations to using a measure such as Adjusted EBITDA, including the difficulty associated with comparing results among more than one company, including our competitors, and the inability to analyze certain significant items, including depreciation and interest expense, that directly affect our net income or loss. Management compensates for these limitations by considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with their analysis of net income (loss).33Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskOur primary exposures to market risks are related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We seek to manage exposure to changes in interest rates where economically prudent to do so by utilizing fixed rate debt. We do not currently hedge against foreign currency exchange risks.Interest Rate RiskOur interest rate risk relates primarily to the impact of interest rate movements on the following, after giving effect to the WCP acquisition and the January 2012 refinancing:the potential refinancing of our existing debt ($8.0 billion and $6.9 billion of debt outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively);our $1.6 billion of floating rate debt representing approximately 20% of total debt compared to 11% in the prior year; andpotential future borrowings of incremental debt.Potential Refinancing of Existing DebtOver the next 12 months we have no debt maturities other than principal payments on amortizing debt. We do not anticipate the need to access the capital markets to refinance our existing debt until at least 2015, which reflects the impact of refinancings that extended our debt maturities. As of December 31, 2011, we have no interest rate swaps hedging any refinancings. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesOverview." Floating Rate DebtWe manage our exposure to market interest rates on our existing debt by controlling the mix of fixed and floating rate debt. As of December 31, 2011, after giving effect to the January 2012 refinancing and the WCP acquisition, we had $1.6 billion of floating rate debt. As a result, a hypothetical unfavorable fluctuation in market interest rates on our existing debt of two percentage points over a 12 month period would increase our interest expense by approximately $32 million.Potential Future Borrowings of Incremental DebtWe typically do not hedge our exposure to interest rates on potential future borrowings of incremental debt for a substantial period prior to issuance. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources" regarding our short term liquidity strategy and note 20 to our consolidated financial statements regarding our January 2012 refinancing, including our undrawn revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan.34The following table provides information about our market risk related to changes in interest rates. The future principal payments and weighted average interest rates are presented as of December 31, 2011 and are after giving effect to the January 2012 refinancing and the WCP acquisition. These debt maturities reflect contractual maturity dates, and do not consider the impact of the principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates of certain notes (see footnote (c)). See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt. Future Principal Payments and Interest Rates by the Debt Instruments Contractual Year of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total Fair Value(a) (Dollars in thousands)Fixed rate debt (c)$33,864 $44,313 $44,806 $911,537 $43,712 $5,330,047(c)$6,408,279(c)$6,820,344Average interest rate (b)(c)5.0% 4.9% 5.0% 8.8% 5.1% 9.2%(c)9.0%(c) Variable rate debt$16,000 $16,000 $16,000 $16,000 $16,000 $1,520,000 $1,600,000 $1,600,000Average interest rate4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% (a)The fair value of our debt is based on indicative quotes (that is, non binding quotes) from brokers that require judgment to interpret market information, including implied credit spreads for similar borrowings on recent trades or bid/ask offers. These fair values are not necessarily indicative of the amount, which could be realized in a current market exchange.(b)The average interest rate represents the weighted average stated coupon rate (see footnote (c)).(c)The impact of principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates are not considered. The anticipated repayment dates are 2015, 2017 and 2020, as applicable for the 2010 tower revenue notes. As previously discussed, if the tower revenue notes are not repaid in full by the applicable anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by approximately 5% per annum and monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The tower revenue notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates ranging from 2035 to 2040 and include the impact of an assumed 5% increase in interest rate that would occur following the anticipated repayment dates but exclude the impact of monthly principal payments that would commence using Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The full year 2011 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes was approximately $456 million. The anticipated repayment date is 2015 for each class of the WCP securitized notes. If the WCP securitized notes are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by an additional approximately 5% per annum. If the WCP securitized notes are not repaid in full by their rapid amortization date of 2017, monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes, The WCP securitized notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates in 2040. The full year 2011 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes was approximately $17 million. We acquired restricted cash of $29.5 million that if not spent on third party land interests by November 2012 will be required to be used to repay principal amounts outstanding on the WCP securitized debt. 35Foreign Currency RiskThe vast majority of our foreign currency risk is related to the Australian dollar which is the functional currency of CCAL. CCAL represented 6% of our consolidated revenues and 4% of our consolidated operating income for 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the Australian dollar exchange rate had strengthened compared to the U.S. dollar by approximately 12% from the average rate for 2010. See "Item 7. MD&AResults of OperationsComparison of Operating Segments."Foreign exchange markets have recently been volatile, and we expect foreign exchange markets to continue to be volatile over the near term. We believe the risk related to our financial instruments (exclusive of inter company financing deemed a long term investment) denominated in Australian dollars is not significant to our financial condition. A hypothetical increase or decrease of 25% in Australian dollar exchange rate would increase or decrease the fair value of our financial instruments by approximately $8 million.
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsGeneral OverviewOverviewWe own, lease or manage approximately 23,800 towers, approximately 800 nodes, primarily located outdoors and approximately 150 third party land interests. Revenues generated from our core site rental business represented 91% of our 2011 consolidated net revenues. CCUSA, our largest operating segment, accounted for 94% of our 2011 site rental revenues. See "Item 1. Business" for a further discussion of our business, including our long term strategy, certain key terms of our lease agreements and growth trends in the wireless communications industry.The following are certain highlights of our business fundamentals as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011:Potential growth resulting from wireless network expansion and new entrantsWe expect wireless carriers will continue their focus on improving network quality and expanding capacity by adding additional antennas and other equipment on our wireless infrastructure.We expect existing and potential new wireless carrier demand for our wireless infrastructure will result from (1) next generation technologies, (2) continued development of mobile internet applications, (3) adoption of other emerging and embedded wireless devices, (4) increasing smartphone penetration, and (5) wireless carrier focus on expanding coverage.Substantially all of our wireless infrastructure can accommodate another tenant, either as currently constructed or with appropriate modifications to the structure.U.S. wireless carriers continue to invest in their networks.We expect our site rental revenues will grow approximately 5% from the full year 2011 to 2012. We expect our new tenant additions, inclusive of the estimated impact from Sprint as it deploys network enhancements (referred to as Network Vision), will result in an approximately 5% year over year growth in site rental revenues from 2011 to 2012, exclusive of the impact of the WCP acquisition and the anticipated closing of the NextG acquisition. Our 2012 site rental revenue growth expectations do not assume any net contribution to growth from the existing base of business (which have historically averaged approximately 4% per annum) as the increase attributable to lease escalations and straight line impact of renewals is expected to be offset by the timing of expected cancellations of customer contracts due to prior wireless carrier consolidation.Site rental revenues under long term customer contracts with contractual escalationsInitial terms of five to 15 years with multiple renewal periods at the option of the tenant of five to ten years each.Weighted average remaining term of approximately nine years, exclusive of renewals at the customers option, representing approximately $17 billion of expected future cash inflows.Revenues predominately from large wireless carriersVerizon Wireless, AT&T, Sprint and T Mobile accounted for 74% of consolidated revenues.Majority of land interests under our towers under long term controlApproximately 89% and 73% of our site rental gross margin is derived from towers that we own or control for greater than ten and 20 years, respectively. The aforementioned percentages include towers that reside on land interests that are owned in fee or where we have perpetual or long term easements, which represent approximately 34% of our site rental gross margin.Relatively fixed wireless infrastructure operating costs with high incremental margins and cash flows on organic revenue growthOur wireless infrastructure operating costs tend to increase at approximately the rate of inflation and are not typically influenced by new tenant additions.Our incremental margin on additional site rental revenues represents 91% of the related increase in site rental revenues.Minimal sustaining capital expenditure requirementsSustaining capital expenditures were $23.4 million, which represented less than 2% of net revenues.Debt portfolio with long dated maturities extended over multiple years with the vast majority of such debt having a fixed rate (see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a further discussion of our debt) 80% of our debt has fixed rate coupons, after giving effect to the WCP acquisition and the January 2012 refinancing.Our debt service coverage and leverage ratios were comfortably within our respective covenant requirements. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources" for a further discussion of our debt covenants. 18Significant cash flows from operationsNet cash provided by operating activities was $643.5 million.We believe our site rental business can be characterized as a stable cash flow stream, which we expect to grow as a result of future demand for our wireless infrastructure.Capital allocated to drive long term stockholder value (per share) (see also "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources" )Historical discretionary investments include (in no particular order): purchasing our common stock, acquiring or constructing wireless infrastructure, acquiring land interests under our towers, improving and structurally enhancing our existing wireless infrastructure, and purchasing or redeeming our debt.Discretionary investments during 2011 included: (1) the purchase of 7.4 million shares of common stock for $303.4 million; and (2) $324.6 million in capital expenditures, including $196.4 million for land interests.In December 2011, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire NextG for approximately $1.0 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments. NextG has over 7,000 nodes on air and approximately 1,500 nodes under construction. Our acquisition of NextG is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012. In January 2012, we acquired certain subsidiaries of WCP for a gross purchase price of approximately $500 million, exclusive of purchase price adjustments . Upon closing in January 2012, WCP held various contracts with wireless site owners, including approximately 2,300 ground lease related assets, of which 150 related to our wireless infrastructure. In January 2012, we refinanced and repaid our credit facility and term loans with the proceeds of a $3.1 billion senior secured credit facility, which funded the January 2012 WCP acquisition and is expected to be used to fund the NextG acquisition.Results of OperationsThe following discussion of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with "Item 1. Business," "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources" and our consolidated financial statements. The following discussion of our results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. which require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts (see "Item 7. MD&AAccounting and Reporting MattersCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and note 2 to our consolidated financial statements).19Comparison of Consolidated ResultsThe following is a comparison of our 2011, 2010 and 2009 consolidated results of operations: Years Ended December 31, Percent Change(b) 2011 2010 2009 2011vs.2010 2010vs.2009 (In thousands of dollars) Net revenues: Site rental$1,853,550 $1,700,761 $1,543,192 9 % 10%Network services and other179,179 177,897 142,215 1 25Net revenues2,032,729 1,878,658 1,685,407 8 11Operating expenses: Costs of operations(a): Site rental481,398 467,136 456,560 3 2Network services and other106,987 114,241 92,808 (6) 23Total costs of operations588,385 581,377 549,368 1 6General and administrative173,493 165,356 153,072 5 8Asset write down charges22,285 13,687 19,237 * *Acquisition and integration costs3,310 2,102 * *Depreciation, amortization and accretion552,951 540,771 529,739 2 2Total operating expenses1,340,424 1,303,293 1,251,416 3 4Operating income (loss)692,305 575,365 433,991 20 33Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs(507,587) (490,269) (445,882) * *Gains (losses) on retirement of long term obligations (138,367) (91,079) * *Net gain (loss) on interest rate swaps (286,435) (92,966) * *Interest income666 2,204 2,967 * *Other income (expense)(5,577) (603) 2,446 * *Income (loss) before income taxes179,807 (338,105) (190,523) * *Benefit (provision) for income taxes(8,347) 26,846 76,400 * *Net income (loss)171,460 (311,259) (114,123) * *Less: Net income (loss) attributable to the noncontrolling interest383 (319) 209 * *Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders$171,077 $(310,940) $(114,332) * * *Percentage is not meaningful(a)Exclusive of depreciation, amortization and accretion shown separately.(b)Inclusive of the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations. See "Item 7. MD&AResults of OperationsComparison of Operating SegmentsCCAL."2011 and 2010. Our consolidated results of operations for 2011 and 2010, respectively, predominately consist of our CCUSA segment, which accounted for (1) 94% and 95% of consolidated net revenues, (2) 94% and 95% of consolidated gross margins, and (3) 98% and 100% of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders. Virtually all of the increase in site rental revenues resulted from wireless infrastructure we owned as of January 1, 2010. Our operating segment results for 2011 and 2010, including CCUSA, are discussed below (see "Item 7. MD&AResults of OperationsComparison of Operating Segments").202010 and 2009. Our consolidated results of operations for 2010 and 2009, respectively, predominately consist of our CCUSA segment, which accounted for (1) 95% and 95% of consolidated net revenues, (2) 95% and 95% of consolidated gross margins, and (3) 100% and 101% of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders. Virtually all of the increase in site rental revenues resulted from wireless infrastructure we owned as of January 1, 2009. Our operating segment results for 2010 and 2009, including CCUSA, are discussed below (see "Item 7. MD&AResults of OperationsComparison of Operating Segments").Comparison of Operating SegmentsOur reportable operating segments for 2011 are (1) CCUSA, primarily consisting of our U.S. operations, and (2) CCAL, our Australian operations. Our financial results are reported to management and the board of directors in this manner.See note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for segment results and a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA (defined below).Our measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate our operating performance and operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and accretion, as adjusted ("Adjusted EBITDA"). Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP").We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus restructuring charges (credits), asset write down charges, acquisition and integration costs, depreciation, amortization and accretion, interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, gains (losses) on retirement of long term obligations, net gain (loss) on interest rate swaps, impairment of available for sale securities, interest income, other income (expense), benefit (provision) for income taxes, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, income (loss) from discontinued operations and stock based compensation expense (see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements). The reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to our net income (loss) is set forth in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations as determined in accordance with GAAP, and Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is discussed further under "Item 7. MD&AAccounting and Reporting MattersNon GAAP Financial Measures."CCUSA2011 and 2010. Net revenues for 2011 increased by $130.3 million, or 7%, from 2010. This increase in net revenues resulted from an increase in site rental revenues of $136.9 million, or 9%, for the same periods. This increase in site rental revenues was impacted by the following items, inclusive of straight line accounting, in no particular order: new tenant additions across our entire portfolio, renewals or extensions of customer contracts, escalations and cancellations of customer contracts. See "Item 7. MD&AAccounting and Reporting MattersCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for a further discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Tenant additions were influenced by the previously mentioned growth in the wireless communications industry. See also "Item 1. BusinessThe CompanyCCUSA."Site rental gross margins for 2011 increased by $127.8 million, or 11%, from 2010. The increase in the site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 9% increase in site rental revenues. Site rental gross margins for 2011 increased primarily as a result of the high incremental margins associated with tenant additions given the relatively fixed costs to operate wireless infrastructure. The $127.8 million incremental margin represents 93% of the related increase in site rental revenues. Network services and other revenues for 2011 decreased by $6.6 million, or 4%, from 2010, and the related gross margin increased by $5.0 million, or 8%, from 2010. The increase in our gross margin from our network services and other revenues is a reflection of the general volatility in the volume and mix of such work. Our network services business is of a variable nature as these revenues are not under long term contracts. General and administrative expenses for 2011 increased by $3.4 million, or 2%, from 2010. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock based compensation charges, as discussed further in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. General and administrative expenses increased primarily as a result of DAS operations, driven by our acquisition of NewPath in 2010. General and administrative expenses were 8% of net revenues for both 2011 and 2010. Typically, our general and administrative expenses do not significantly increase as a result of new tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure.Adjusted EBITDA for 2011 increased by $125.5 million, or 11%, from 2010. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the growth in our site rental business, including the high incremental site rental margin on the tenant additions.Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2011 increased by $9.2 million, or 2%, from 2010. This increase is consistent with the insignificant movement in our fixed assets and intangible assets, which did not materially change between 2010 and 2011.21During 2010, we repaid or purchased $3.4 billion of face value of debt using cash from our issuances of debt in order to extend the maturities of our debt portfolio. As a result of purchasing and early retiring certain of our debt, we incurred a net loss of $138.4 million for 2010, inclusive of make whole payments. During 2010, we realized losses on interest rate swaps of $286.4 million, which predominately resulted from an increase in the liability for those swaps not subject to hedge accounting due to changes in the LIBOR yield curve. All of our forward starting swaps were settled during 2010, so no further cash outflows associated with these swaps will occur. The increase in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs of $18.4 million, or 4%, in 2011 resulted predominately from a $17.5 million increase in the amortization of interest rate swaps primarily related to the loss realized in 2010 on the swaps hedging the refinancing of the 2006 tower revenue notes. For a further discussion of the debt refinancings and the interest rate swaps see notes 6 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements, "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."Benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2011 was a provision of $6.1 million compared to a benefit of $28.8 million for 2010. For 2010 and 2011, the effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate predominately due to our federal deferred valuation allowances. In addition, 2010 included $19.8 million of federal tax benefits recorded predominately as a result of discrete events, including acquisitions. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2011 was income of $168.1 million. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2010 was a loss of $310.2 million inclusive of (1) net losses from interest rate swaps of $286.4 million and (2) net losses from repayments and purchases and early retirement of debt of $138.4 million. The change from net loss to net income was predominately due to (1) the previously mentioned charges and (2) growth in our site rental and service businesses. CCAL2011 and 2010. The increases and decreases between 2011 and 2010 were inclusive of exchange rate fluctuations. The average exchange rate of Australian dollars expressed in U.S dollars for 2011 was approximately 1.03, an increase of 12% from approximately 0.92 for the same period in the prior year. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."Total net revenues for 2011 increased by $23.8 million, or 23%, from 2010. Site rental revenues for 2011 increased by $15.9 million, or 17%, from 2010. The increase in the exchange rate positively impacted net revenues and site rental revenues by approximately $13.9 million and $11.9 million, respectively, and accounted for an increase of 14% and 13%, respectively, for 2011 from 2010. Site rental revenues were also impacted by various other factors, inclusive of straight line accounting, including, in no particular order: tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure, renewals of customer contracts, escalations and cancellations of customer contracts. Net revenues were also impacted by a $7.9 million increase in network services and other revenues.Site rental gross margins increased by $10.7 million, or 17%, for 2011 from $63.3 million and Adjusted EBITDA for 2011 increased by $9.4 million, or 18%, from $53.0 million. The increase in the site rental gross margin and Adjusted EBITDA were primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2011 was a net income of $3.0 million, compared to net loss of $0.7 million for 2010. The change from net loss to net income was primarily related to the previously mentioned increase in net revenues.CCUSA2010 and 2009. Net revenues for 2010 increased by $175.1 million, or 11%, from 2009. This increase in net revenues resulted from an increase in site rental revenues of $141.6 million, or 10%, for the same periods. This increase in site rental revenues was impacted by the following items, inclusive of straight line accounting, in no particular order: new tenant additions across our entire portfolio, renewals or extensions of customer contracts, escalations and cancellations of customer contracts. See "Item 7. MD&AAccounting and Reporting MattersCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for a further discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Tenant additions were influenced by the previously mentioned growth in the wireless communications industry. We amended a site rental contract with one of our four largest customers during 2010 to provide the customer with the ability to add equipment to its existing antennas on our wireless infrastructure without the need to pay additional rent on individual amendments at each tower, with limited exceptions, in exchange for an increase in rent on the customers existing contracts. During 2010, we continued to derive a large portion of our site rental revenues from the four largest wireless carriers in the U.S., although a significant portion of our new tenant additions were from customers offering emerging wireless services, such as those offering wireless data only technologies, including Clearwire, a provider of wireless mobile internet services. See also "Item 1. BusinessThe CompanyCCUSA."Site rental gross margins for 2010 increased by $137.3 million, or 13%, from 2009. The increase in site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 10% increase in site rental revenues. Site rental gross margins for 2010 increased primarily as a result of the high incremental margins associated with tenant additions given the relatively fixed costs to operate wireless infrastructure. The $137.3 million incremental margin represents 97% of the related increase in site rental revenues.Network services and other revenues for 2010 increased by $33.6 million, or 25%, from 2009, and the related gross margin increased by $14.3 million, or 31%, from 2009. Our network services business is of a variable nature as these revenues are not 22under long term contracts. The increase in our network services and other revenues reflect our increased market share, as well as the general volatility in the volume and mix of such work. We were able to achieve this growth in revenues while modestly expanding our related gross margin. General and administrative expenses for 2010 increased by $7.2 million, or 5%, from 2009 but decreased to 8% of net revenues from 9%. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock based compensation charges, which increased by $6.8 million from 2009 to 2010, as discussed further in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. The increase in stock based compensation was driven by the furthered emphasis on the long term incentive compensation component of total compensation for senior management, which we believe further aligns compensation with stockholder value. Typically, our general and administrative expenses do not significantly increase as a result of new tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure.Adjusted EBITDA for 2010 increased by $151.6 million, or 16%, from 2009. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the growth in our site rental and services businesses, including the high incremental site rental margin on the new tenant additions.Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2010 increased by $11.4 million, or 2%, from 2009. The small increase is consistent with the movement in our fixed assets and intangible assets, which did not materially change between 2009 and 2010.During 2009 and 2010, we refinanced the vast majority of our debt in order to extend and ladder the maturities of our debt portfolio. This refinancing activity included purchasing and early retiring certain of our debt, resulting in a net loss of $138.4 million for 2010, inclusive of make whole payments. The increase in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs of $44.9 million, or 10%, in 2010 resulted predominately from (1) a $35.4 million increase in the amortization of interest rate swaps primarily related to the loss on the swaps hedging the refinancing of the 2005 tower revenue notes and the 2006 tower revenue notes and (2) the net impact of our various refinancings. During 2010, we realized losses on interest rate swaps of $286.4 million, which predominately resulted from an increase in the liability due to changes in the LIBOR yield curve for those swaps not subject to hedge accounting. As of December 31, 2010, all of our forward starting interest rate swaps are settled. For a further discussion of the debt refinancings and the interest rate swaps see notes 6 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements, "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."Benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2010 was a benefit of $28.8 million compared to a benefit of $77.7 million for 2009. As further discussed in note 9 to our consolidated financial statements, we were limited in our ability to recognize federal tax benefits on our losses during 2010, except for $19.8 million of federal tax benefits recorded predominately as a result of discrete events, including acquisitions. As of December 31, 2010, we are unable to recognize additional federal tax benefits in future periods unless discrete events allow us to record additional deferred tax liabilities. Tax benefits for 2010 predominately reflect our recognition of federal tax benefits on our losses and a reversal of $20.6 million of state tax valuation allowance. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2010 was a loss of $310.2 million, inclusive of (1) net losses from interest rate swaps of $286.4 million and (2) net losses from repayments and purchases and early retirement of debt of $138.4 million. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2009 was a loss of $115.4 million, inclusive of (1) net losses from repayments and purchases and early retirement of debt of $91.1 million and (2) net losses from interest rate swaps of $93.0 million. The increase in net loss was predominately due to (1) the previously mentioned charges and benefits and (2) the previously mentioned increase in interest expense of $44.9 million, partially offset by (3) growth in our site rental and service businesses. CCAL2010 and 2009. The increases and decreases between 2010 and 2009 are inclusive of exchange rate fluctuations. The average exchange rate of Australian dollars to U.S dollars for 2010 was approximately 0.92, an increase of 16% from approximately 0.79 for the same period in the prior year. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."Total net revenues for 2010 increased by $18.1 million, or 21%, from 2009. Site rental revenues for 2010 increased by $16.0 million, or 21%, from 2009. The increase in the exchange rate positively impacted net revenues and site rental revenues by approximately $14.3 million and $12.9 million, respectively, and accounted for an increase of 17% in both net revenues and site rental revenues for 2010 from 2009. Site rental revenues were also impacted by various other factors inclusive of straight line accounting, including, in no particular order: new tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure, renewals of customer contracts, escalations and cancellations of customer contracts. Site rental gross margins increased by $9.7 million, or 18%, for 2010 from $53.6 million, and Adjusted EBITDA for 2010 increased by $7.0 million, or 15%, from 2010. The increase in the site rental gross margin and Adjusted EBITDA were predominately due to exchange rate fluctuations. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2010 was a net loss of $0.7 million, compared to a net income of $1.1 million for 2009. The change from net income to net loss was predominately due to the following, exclusive of the impact 23from exchange rate fluctuations: (1) an increase in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, the majority of which was due to an increase in the variable interest rate of our intercompany debt, (2) an increase in general and administrative expenses due to an increase in stock based compensation, and (3) lower depreciation expense for 2011, as a result of recording depreciation expense for towers that were acquired in 2008 with short useful lives for accounting purposes driven by the short term of the underlying ground lease.Liquidity and Capital ResourcesOverviewGeneral. We believe our site rental business can be characterized as a stable cash flow stream, generated by revenues under long term contracts (see "Item 7. MD&AGeneral OverviewOverview"). Since we became a public company in 1998, our cumulative net cash provided by operating activities (net of cash interest payments) has exceeded our capital expenditures and provided us with cash available for discretionary investments. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to generate net cash provided by operating activities that exceeds our capital expenditures and will be available for discretionary investments. In addition to investing net cash provided by operating activities, in certain circumstances, we may also use debt financings and issuances of equity or equity related securities to fund discretionary investments. We seek to allocate the net cash provided by our operating activities in a manner that will enhance per share operating results. Our historical discretionary investments include (in no particular order): purchasing our common stock, acquiring or constructing wireless infrastructure, acquiring land interests under our towers, improving and structurally enhancing our existing wireless infrastructure, and purchasing or redeeming our debt. We seek to maintain a capital structure that we believe drives long term stockholder value and optimizes our weighted average cost of capital. We target a leverage ratio of approximately four to six times Adjusted EBITDA and interest coverage of approximately three times Adjusted EBITDA, subject to various factors such as the availability and cost of capital and the potential long term return on our discretionary investments. We may choose to increase or decrease our leverage and coverage from these targets for various periods of time. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. Currently we endeavor to utilize our net cash provided by operating activities to engage in discretionary investments. We seek to maintain flexibility in our discretionary investments with both net cash provided by operating activities and cash available from financing capacity. Periodically, our board of directors assesses the advisability of declaring and paying cash dividends at some point in the future, based on the then current and anticipated future conditions, including our earnings, net cash provided by operating activities, capital requirements, financial condition, our relative market capitalization, taxable income, taxpayer status, and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors. We pay minimal cash income taxes as a result of our net operating loss carryforwards. We may generate taxable income in the future, and if so, we may utilize all or a portion of our $2.5 billion of federal net operating losses to offset such income. If we were to approach the exhaustion of our net operating loss carryforwards or if there were relevant tax law changes, we would evaluate our options with respect to appropriately managing our tax position . These options may include a conversion to a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), which would require the payment of dividends on our common stock. If we were to convert to a REIT, we expect that certain subsidiaries would not qualify as a REIT and would continue to be subject to corporate income taxes. Liquidity Position. The following is a summary of our capitalization and liquidity position after giving effect to the WCP acquisition, the January 2012 refinancing and the preferred stock conversion expected to occur in February 2012. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and notes 6 and 8 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt. December 31, 2011 (In thousands of dollars)Cash and cash equivalents(a)(c)$563,951Undrawn revolving credit facility availability(b)1,000,000Debt and other long term obligations(c)7,935,673Stockholders equity2,688,557 (a)Exclusive of restricted cash.(b)Availability at any point in time is subject to reaffirmation of the representations and warranties in, and there being no default under, our credit agreement. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesFinancing Activities" and "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesDebt Covenants."(c)Exclusive of the $500.0 million delayed draw term loan.24During January 2012, we refinanced our credit facility through (1) a $500.0 million undrawn delayed draw term loan due in 2017, (2) a $1.6 billion term loan due in 2019, and (3) a $1.0 billion undrawn revolving credit facility due in 2017. This refinancing effectively extended the maturity of our credit facility and provided funding for the WCP acquisition and the anticipated acquisition of the NextG (for approximately $1.0 billion of cash, subject to adjustment), which is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012. See notes 6 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements.Over the next 12 months: we expect that our cash on hand, undrawn revolving credit facility availability, the proceeds of our $500.0 million delayed draw credit facility and net cash provided by operating activities (net of cash interest payments) should be sufficient to cover our expected (1) debt service obligations of $32.5 million (principal payments), (2) capital expenditures of roughly $350 million (sustaining and discretionary) and (3) NextG acquisition. As CCIC and CCOC are holding companies, this cash flow from operations is generated by our operating subsidiaries.we have no debt maturities other than principal payments on amortizing debt. We do not anticipate the need to access the capital markets to refinance our existing debt until at least 2015. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a tabular presentation of our debt maturities as of December 31, 2011.Summary Cash Flows Information Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (In thousands of dollars)Net cash provided by (used for): Operating activities$643,454 $603,430 $571,256Investing activities(399,865) (390,949) (172,145)Financing activities(275,712) (866,624) 214,396Effect of exchange rate changes on cash(288) 528 (2,580)Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents$(32,411) $(653,615) $610,927Operating ActivitiesThe increase in net cash provided by operating activities for 2011 from 2010 and 2009 was due primarily to growth in our core site rental business, partially offset by changes in working capital. The year over year decrease in working capital from 2010 to 2011 of $86.3 million resulted primarily from changes in deferred site rental receivables and deferred revenues. Changes in working capital, and particularly changes in deferred site rental receivables, deferred rental revenues, prepaid ground leases, restricted cash and accrued interest, can have a significant impact on net cash provided by operating activities, largely due to the timing of prepayments and receipts. We expect net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 will be sufficient to cover the next 12 months of our expected debt service obligations and capital expenditures. We expect to grow our net cash provided by operating activities in the future (exclusive of movements in working capital) if we realize expected growth in our site rental business.Investing ActivitiesCapital Expenditures. We categorize our capital expenditures as sustaining or discretionary. Sustaining capital expenditures include capitalized costs related to (1) maintenance activities on our wireless infrastructure, which are generally related to replacements and upgrades that extend the life of the asset, (2) vehicles, (3) information technology equipment, and (4) office equipment. Discretionary capital expenditures, which we also commonly refer to as "revenue generating capital expenditures," include (1) purchases of land interests under towers, (2) wireless infrastructure improvements in order to support additional site rentals, and (3) the construction of wireless infrastructure. A summary of our capital expenditures for the last three years is as follows: 25 For Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (In thousands of dollars)Discretionary: Purchases of land interests$196,380 $109,097 $25,495Wireless infrastructure improvements and other82,780 73,917 101,298Construction of wireless infrastructure45,391 20,718 18,683Sustaining23,391 24,326 28,059Total$347,942 $228,058 $173,535Other than sustaining capital expenditures, which we expect to be approximately $22 million to $27 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, our capital expenditures are discretionary and are made with respect to activities which we believe exhibit sufficient potential to improve our long term results of operations on a per share basis. We expect to use roughly $350 million of our cash flows on capital expenditures (sustaining and discretionary) for full year 2012, with less than one fourth of our total capital expenditures targeted for our existing wireless infrastructure assets related to customer installations and related capacity improvement. Our decisions regarding capital expenditures are influenced by the availability and cost of capital and expected returns on alternative investments. The following is a discussion of certain aspects of our capital expenditures.We increased our purchases of land interests from 2010 to 2011 as a result of our focus on maintaining long term control of our assets. We expect to retain long term control of our towers by continuing to supplement land interest purchases with extensions of the terms of ground leases for land under our towers. Purchases of land interests for 2011 included $87.7 million for perpetual easements and other interests purchased in a single transaction. Total consideration for this single transaction was $89.3 million. Wireless infrastructure improvement capital expenditures typically vary based on (1) the type of work performed on the wireless infrastructure, with the installation of a new antenna typically requiring greater capital expenditures than a modification to an existing installation, (2) the existing capacity of the wireless structure prior to installation and (3) changes in structural engineering regulations and our internal structural standards. Acquisitions. See note 20 for a discussion of the definitive agreement to acquire NextG and the WCP acquisition. See note 3 for a discussion of the acquisition of NewPath in 2010.Financing ActivitiesWe seek to allocate cash generated by our operations in a manner that will enhance per share operating results, which may include various financing activities, such as (in no particular order) purchasing our common stock and purchasing or redeeming our debt. During 2010 and 2009, we extended the maturities of our debt by issuing an aggregate $6.3 billion face value of debt and purchased and repaid $5.8 billion face value of debt. Since the beginning of 2009, we have purchased an aggregate of 11.6 million shares of common stock for $465.9 million, which we believe is consistent with our objective to drive per share operating results. In the beginning of 2012, our financing activities predominately related to refinancing our credit facility, which effectively extended the maturity of our credit facility as well as provided funding for the WCP acquisition and the expected closing of the NextG acquisition. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesOverview" and note 20 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the January 2012 refinancing.Incurrence of Debt. See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our issuances of debt during 2009 and 2010, which extended the maturities of our debt portfolio. As of December 31, 2011, 71% of our CCUSA towers and the cash flows from these towers effectively secure $4.6 billion of our debt. In addition, distributions paid from our entities that hold approximately 4,900 towers will also service this secured debt. In addition, nearly all of the third party land interests and other assets acquired in the WCP acquisition and the cash flows derived therefrom are effectively pledged as security on the debt assumed in connection with the WCP acquisition. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesOverviewLiquidity Position" and note 20 to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion on the refinancing of our credit facility in January 2012.Debt Purchases and Repayments. See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our purchases and repayments of debt during 2009 and 2010, including the gains (losses) on retirement of long term obligations. See note 20 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the refinancing of our credit facility in January 2012.Interest Rate Swaps. During 2010, we settled all of our forward starting interest rate swaps. See note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of interest rate swaps.26Common Stock and Preferred Stock Activity. As of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we had 284.4 million, 290.8 million and 292.7 million common shares outstanding, respectively. During 2011, we purchased 7.4 million shares of common stock at an average price of $41.12 per share utilizing $303.4 million in cash. We may continue to purchase our common stock in the future as we seek to allocate capital to discretionary investments in a manner that we believe will enhance per share results. During 2011, we paid $15.0 million to purchase a portion of our 6.25% redeemable convertible preferred stock, thereby reducing the number of common shares issuable upon conversion of such preferred stock by 0.3 million. In January 2012, we exercised our right to convert all of the outstanding 6.25% redeemable convertible preferred stock into 8.3 million shares of common stock. See "Item 1. BusinessStrategy" and note 20 to our consolidated financial statements.Revolving Credit Facility. The proceeds of our revolving credit facility may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include the financing of capital expenditures, acquisitions and purchases of our common stock. Typically, we use our revolving credit facility to fund discretionary investments and not for operating activities, such as working capital, which are typically funded by net cash provided by operating activities. As of February 6, 2012, there were no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesOverview" and note 20 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our January 2012 refinancing.Restricted Cash. Pursuant to the indentures governing our operating companies debt securities, all rental cash receipts of the issuers of these debt instruments and their subsidiaries are restricted and held by an indenture trustee. The restricted cash in excess of required reserve balances is subsequently released to us in accordance with the terms of the indentures. See also notes 2 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements.Contractual Cash ObligationsThe following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2011 after giving effect to the WCP acquisition, the January 2012 refinancing and the preferred stock conversion. These contractual cash obligations relate primarily to our outstanding borrowings and lease obligations for land interests under our towers. The debt maturities reflect contractual maturity dates and do not consider the impact of the principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates on the tower revenue notes (see footnote (c)). Years Ending December 31,Contractual Obligations (a)2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Totals (In thousands of dollars)Debt and other long term obligations(b)(c)(d)$49,864 $60,313 $60,806 $927,537 $59,712 $6,850,047 $8,008,279Interest payments on debt and other long term obligations(c)(d)(e)461,796 465,976 463,091 446,096 419,272 8,262,405 10,518,636Lease obligations(f)301,264 305,278 307,267 308,801 311,242 3,907,901 5,441,753Definitive acquisition agreements(g)1,009,865 1,009,865Other6,555 1,489 1,981 1,147 871 12,043Total contractual obligations$1,829,344 $833,056 $833,145 $1,683,581 $791,097 $19,020,353 $24,990,576 (a)The following items are in addition to the obligations disclosed in the above table:We have a legal obligation to perform certain asset retirement activities, including requirements upon lease and easement terminations to remove wireless infrastructure or remediate the land upon which our wireless infrastructure resides. The cash obligations disclosed in the above table, as of December 31, 2011, are exclusive of estimated undiscounted future cash outlays for asset retirement obligations of approximately $1.4 billion. As of December 31, 2011, the net present value of these asset retirement obligations was approximately $68.5 million.We are contractually obligated under letters of credit to various landlords, insurers and other parties in connection with certain contingent retirement obligations under various wireless infrastructure land interest leases and certain other contractual obligations. The letters of credit were issued through one of CCUSAs lenders in amounts aggregating $10.8 million and expire on various dates through December 2012.We are contractually obligated to pay or reimburse others for property taxes related to our wireless infrastructure. See note 14 to our consolidated financial statements.(b)Inclusive of $47.8 million related in installment purchases of land interests.(c)The impact of principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates of our tower revenue notes are not considered. The anticipated repayment dates for the tower revenue notes are in 2015, 2017 and 2020. If the tower revenue notes are not repaid in full by the applicable anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by approximately 5% per annum and monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The tower revenue notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates ranging from 2035 to 2040 and include the impact of an assumed 5% increase in interest rate that would occur following the anticipated repayment dates but exclude the impact of monthly principal payments that would commence using Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The full year 2011 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes was approximately $456 million. The anticipated repayment date is 2015 for each class of the debt assumed in connection with the WCP acquisition ("WCP securitized notes"). (d)If the WCP securitized notes are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by an additional approximately 5% per annum. If the WCP securitized notes are not repaid in full by their rapid amortization date of 2017, monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes. The WCP securitized notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates in 272040. The full year 2011 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes was approximately $17 million. In connection with the WCP acquisition, we acquired restricted cash of $29.5 million that if not spent on towers or third party land interests by November 2012 will be required to be used to repay principal amounts outstanding on the WCP securitized notes. (e)Interest payments on the floating rate debt are based on estimated rates currently in effect.(f)Amounts relate primarily to lease obligations for the land interests on which our wireless infrastructure resides, and are based on the assumption that payments will be made through the end of the period for which we hold renewal rights. See table below summarizing remaining terms to expiration.(g)In December 2011, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire NextG for approximately $1.0 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments. The following table summarizes our rights to the land interests under our towers, including renewal terms at our option, as of December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the leases for land interests under our towers had an average remaining life of approximately 31 years, weighted based on site rental gross margin. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors." Remaining Term, In Years(c) Percent of Total Towers Percent of Total Site RentalGross Margins(a)(b)Owned in fee or perpetual or long term easements 27% 34%20+ years 40% 39%10 years to less than 20 years 20% 16%5 years to less than 10 years 9% 8%1 year to less than 5 years 3% 2%0 to less than 1 year 1% 1%Total 100% 100% (a)For the year ended December 31, 2011.(b)Without consideration of the term of the customer contract agreement.(c)Inclusive of renewal terms at our option.Debt CovenantsOur debt obligations contain certain financial covenants with which CCIC or our subsidiaries must maintain compliance in order to avoid the imposition of certain restrictions. Various of our debt obligations also place other restrictions on CCIC or our subsidiaries, which may include the ability to incur debt and liens, purchase our securities, make capital expenditures, dispose of assets, undertake transactions with affiliates, make other investments and pay dividends. We are permitted to issue additional indebtedness at CCIC and at our operating subsidiaries subject to compliance with the covenants governing our debt (including the below mentioned restrictive covenants) and meeting certain other requirements, which may include obtaining rating agency confirmations. See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt covenants.Factors that are likely to determine our subsidiaries ability to comply with their current and future debt covenants include their (1) financial performance, (2) levels of indebtedness, and (3) debt service requirements. Given the current level of indebtedness and debt services requirements of our subsidiaries, the primary risk of a debt covenant violation would be from a deterioration of a subsidiarys financial performance. Should a covenant violation occur in the future as a result of a shortfall in financial performance (or for any other reason), we might be required to make principal payments earlier than currently scheduled and may not have access to additional borrowings under these debt instruments as long as the covenant violation continues. If we fail to comply with the debt restrictions, we will be in default under those instruments, which could cause the maturity of a substantial portion of our long term indebtedness to be accelerated. If our operating subsidiaries were to default on the debt, the trustee could seek to pursue the collateral securing the debt, in which case we could lose the wireless infrastructure and the future revenues associated with such wireless infrastructure. We currently have no financial covenant violations; and based upon our current expectations, we believe our operating results will be sufficient to comply with our debt covenants over the near and long term. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors."The following are the ratios applicable to the financial maintenance, restrictive and cash trap reserve covenants under our debt agreements, after giving effect to the WCP acquisition and the January 2012 refinancing. 28 Type Debt CurrentCovenantRequirement As ofDecember 31,2011 Latest Issuance DateCCIC: Leverage ratioRestrictive(f)9% Senior Notes 7.00 5.9 6.7Leverage ratioRestrictive(f)7.125% Senior Notes 7.00 5.9 6.3CCOC: Net leverage ratio(a)Maintenance(g)Credit Agreement 6.0 4.8 4.8Interest coverage ratio(b)Maintenance(g)Credit Agreement 2.5 3.9 3.9Tower and third party land interest companies: Debt service coverage ratio(c)(d)Cash Trap(h)2010 Tower Revenue Notes &gt;1.75 3.6 3.1Debt service coverage ratio(c)(d)Cash Trap(h)2009 Securitized Notes &gt;1.30 3.0 2.4Fixed charge coverage ratio(c)(d)Cash Trap(h)7.75% Secured Notes &gt;1.35 3.1 2.5Debt service coverage ratio(e)Cash Trap(h)WCP Securitized Notes 1.30 2.0 N/A (a)The Total Net Leverage Ratio for CCOC is calculated as the ratio of Total Indebtedness (excluding debt held by CCIC) less Unrestricted Cash (as defined in the credit agreement and calculated in accordance with GAAP) to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) for the most recently completed quarter multiplied by four. In March 2014, the covenant requirement decreases to a maximum Total Net Leverage Ratio of 5.50 to 1.00. Consolidated EBITDA is calculated in substantially the same manner as Adjusted EBITDA used in our segment reporting, which is discussed further in "Item 7. MD&AAccounting and Reporting MattersNon GAAP Financial Measures" and note 16 to our consolidated financial statements.(b)The Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio for CCOC is calculated as the ratio of Consolidated EBITDA for the most recently completed quarter multiplied by four to Consolidated Pro forma Debt Service (as defined in the credit agreement). Consolidated Pro forma Debt Service is calculated as interest to be paid over the succeeding 12 months on the principal balance of debt (excluding debt held by CCIC, CCOC or any restricted subsidiary) then outstanding based on the then current interest rate for such debt.(c)The 2009 securitized notes and 2010 tower revenue notes also have amortization coverage thresholds of 1.15 and 1.45, respectively, which could result in applying current and future cash in the reserve account to prepay the debt with applicable prepayment consideration. For the 7.75% secured notes, if the Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is equal to or less than 1.20 and the aggregate amount of cash deposited in the Cash Trap Reserve Sub account (as defined in the indenture) exceeds $100.0 million, the issuing subsidiaries will be required to commence an offer to purchase the 7.75% secured notes using the cash in such account. See note (d) below for a discussion of the calculation of the Debt Service Coverage Ratio and Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio.(d)The Debt Service Coverage Ratio and Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio are both calculated as site rental revenue (in accordance with GAAP), less: (1) cost of operations (in accordance with GAAP), (2) straight line rental revenues, (3) straight line ground lease expenses, (4) management fees, and (5) sustaining capital expenditures, using the results for the previous 12 months then ended to the amount of interest to be paid over the succeeding 12 months per the terms of the respective agreement. (e)In connection with the WCP acquisition, we assumed WCPs debt of approximately $320 million . The Debt Service Coverage Ratio on the WCP securitized debt is calculated as Net Cash Flow (as defined in the indenture) less: (1) the Series 2010 1 Class A Targeted Amortization Amounts (as defined in the indenture) for the immediately succeeding 12 payment dates and (2) the Unpaid Series 2010 1 Class A Monthly Amortization Amount (as defined in the indenture) to the payments of interest that the issuers of such debt will be required to pay on the succeeding 12 payment dates on the principal balance of the WCP securitized notes. The WCP securitized debt also has an amortization threshold of 1.15, which could result in applying all Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the indenture) to prepay principal amounts with applicable prepayment consideration. In addition, if the Non Performing Wireless Site Contract Ratio (as defined in the indenture) on the WCP securitized notes is greater than 10%, it could result in applying all Excess Cash Flow to prepay principal amounts with applicable prepayment consideration. (f)The 9% senior notes and 7.125% senior notes contain restrictive covenants with which CCIC and our restricted subsidiaries must comply, subject to a number of exceptions and qualifications, including restrictions on our ability to incur incremental debt, issue preferred stock, guarantee debt, pay dividends, repurchase our capital stock, use assets as security in other transactions, sell assets or merge with or into other companies, and make certain investments. Certain of these covenants are not applicable if there is no event of default and if the ratio of our Consolidated Debt (as defined in the senior notes indenture) to our Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flows (as defined in the senior notes indenture) is less than 7.0 to 1. (g)Failure to comply with the ratios applicable to the financial maintenance could result in default under our credit agreement.(h)Failure to comply with the cash trap reserve covenants would require the cash flows generated by the issuers and their subsidiaries to be deposited in a reserve account and not released to us.Off balance Sheet ArrangementsWe have no off balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S K.Accounting and Reporting MattersCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesThe following is a discussion of the accounting policies and estimates that we believe (1) are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and (2) require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The critical accounting policies and estimates for 2011 are not intended to be a comprehensive list of our accounting policies and estimates. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our significant accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular 29transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP, with no need for managements judgment. In other cases, management is required to exercise judgment in the application of accounting principles with respect to particular transactions.Revenue Recognition. Over 91% of our total revenue for 2011 consists of site rental revenues, which are recognized on a monthly basis over the fixed, non cancelable term of the relevant contract (generally ranging from five to 15 years), regardless of whether the payments from the customer are received in equal monthly amounts. If the payment terms call for fixed escalations (as in fixed dollar or fixed percentage increases) or rent free periods, the effect is recognized on a straight line basis over the fixed, non cancelable term of the contract. When calculating our straight line rental revenues, we consider all fixed elements of tenant contractual escalation provisions, even if such escalation provisions contain a variable element (such as an escalator tied to an inflation based index) in addition to a minimum. Any up front billings to customers for their negotiated share of the cost of wireless infrastructure modifications required to accommodate the installation of customer equipment are initially deferred and recognized over the term of the applicable site rental contract. Since we recognize revenue on a straight line basis, a portion of the site rental revenue in a given period represents cash collected or contractually collectible in other periods. We record a deferred site rental receivable for the difference between the straight lined amount and the rent billed. We record an allowance for uncollectible deferred site rental revenues for which increases or reversals of this allowance impact our site rental revenues. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.We provide network services relating to our wireless infrastructure, which represent less than 9% of our total revenues for 2011. Network services and other revenue relate to installation services, as well as the following additional site development services relating to existing and new antenna installations on our wireless infrastructure: site acquisition, architectural and engineering, zoning and permitting, fiber installations, other construction and other services related to network development. Network services revenues are recognized after completion of the applicable service. We account for network services separately from the customers subsequent site rental. See "Item 1. BusinessCCUSA" for a further discussion of our site rental and network services business. Accounting for Long Lived Assets Valuation. As of December 31, 2011, our largest asset was our telecommunications towers (representing approximately $3.6 billion, or 73%, of our $4.9 billion in net book value of property and equipment), followed by intangible assets and goodwill (approximately $2.2 billion and $2.0 billion in net book value, respectively, resulting predominately from the Global Signal Merger in 2007 and other acquisitions of large tower portfolios). Nearly all (approximately $2.1 billion net book value at December 31, 2011) of our identifiable intangibles relate to the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the nature and composition of the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets.For our business combinations, we allocate the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. Any purchase price in excess of the net fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. The fair value of the vast majority of our assets and liabilities is determined by using either:(1)estimates of replacement costs (for tangible fixed assets such as towers) or(2)discounted cash flow valuation methods (for estimating identifiable intangibles such as site rental contracts and customer relationships and above market and below market leases).The purchase price allocation requires subjective estimates that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements, including the amount of depreciation, amortization and accretion expense. The most important estimates for measurement of tangible fixed assets are (1) the cost to replace the asset with a new asset and (2) the economic useful life after giving effect to age, quality and condition. The most important estimates for measurement of intangible assets are (1) discount rates and (2) timing and amount of cash flows including estimates regarding customer renewals and cancellations. The determination of the final purchase price allocation could extend over several quarters resulting in the use of preliminary estimates that are subject to adjustment until finalized.We record the fair value of obligations to perform certain asset retirement activities, including requirements, pursuant to our ground leases and easements, to remove wireless infrastructure or remediate the land upon which our wireless infrastructure resides. In determining the fair value of these asset retirement obligations we must make several subjective and highly judgmental estimates such as those related to: (1) timing of cash flows, (2) future costs, (3) discount rates and (4) the probability of enforcement to remove the wireless infrastructure or remediate the land. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.Accounting for Long Lived Assets Useful Lives. We are required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of our tangible and intangible assets for purposes of determining depreciation, amortization and accretion expense that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Depreciation expense for our property and equipment is computed using the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of our various classes of tangible assets. The substantial portion of our property and equipment represents the cost of our wireless infrastructure which is depreciated with an estimated 30useful life equal to the shorter of (1) 20 years or (2) the term of the lease (including optional renewals) for the land interests under the wireless infrastructure.The useful life of our intangible assets are estimated based on the period over which the intangible asset is expected to benefit us and gives consideration to the expected useful life of other assets to which the useful life may relate. Amortization expense for intangible assets is computed using the straight line method over the estimated useful life of each of the intangible assets. The useful life of the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets is limited by the maximum depreciable life of the wireless infrastructure (20 years), as a result of the interdependency of the wireless infrastructure and site rental contracts and customer relationships. In contrast, the site rental contracts and customer relationships are estimated to provide economic benefits for several decades because of the low rate of customer cancellations and high rate of renewals experienced to date. Thus, while site rental contracts and customer relationships are valued based upon the fair value of the site rental contracts and customer relationships which includes assumptions regarding both (1) customers exercise of optional renewals contained in the acquired contracts and (2) renewals of the acquired contracts past the contractual term including exercisable options, the site rental contracts are amortized over a period not to exceed 20 years as a result of the useful life being limited by the depreciable life of the wireless infrastructure.Accounting for Long Lived Assets Impairment Evaluation Intangibles. We review the carrying values of property and equipment, intangible assets and other long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We utilize the following dual grouping policy for purposes of determining the unit of account for testing impairment of the site rental contracts and customer relationships:(1)we pool site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment into portfolio groups and(2)we separately pool site rental contracts and customer relationships by significant customer or by customer grouping for individually insignificant customers, as appropriate.We first pool site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment into portfolio groups for purposes of determining the unit of account for impairment testing, because we view wireless infrastructure as portfolios and wireless infrastructure in a given portfolio and its related customer contracts are not largely independent of the other wireless infrastructure in the portfolio. We re evaluate the appropriateness of the pooled groups at least annually. This use of grouping is based in part on (1) our limitations regarding disposal of wireless infrastructure, (2) the interdependencies of wireless infrastructure portfolios and (3) the manner in which wireless infrastructure is traded in the marketplace. The vast majority of our site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment are pooled into the U.S. owned wireless infrastructure group. Secondly, and separately, we pool site rental contracts and customer relationships by significant customer or by customer grouping for individually insignificant customers, as appropriate, for purposes of determining the unit of account for impairment testing because we associate the value ascribed to site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets to the underlying contracts and related customer relationships acquired.Our determination that an adverse event or change in circumstance has occurred that indicates that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable will generally involve (1) a deterioration in an assets financial performance compared to historical results, (2) a shortfall in an assets financial performance compared to forecasted results, or (3) changes affecting the utility and estimated future demands for the asset. When considering the utility of our assets, we consider events that would meaningfully impact (1) our wireless infrastructure or (2) our customer relationships. For example, consideration would be given to events that impact (1) the structural integrity and longevity of our wireless infrastructure or (2) our ability to derive benefit from our existing customer relationships, including events such as bankruptcy or insolvency or loss of a significant customer. During 2011, there were no events or circumstances that caused us to review the carrying value of our intangible assets and property and equipment due in part to our assets performing consistently with or better than our expectations.If the sum of the estimated future cash flows (undiscounted) from an asset, or portfolio group, significant customer or customer group (for individually insignificant customers), as applicable, is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss may be recognized. If the carrying value were to exceed the undiscounted cash flows, measurement of an impairment loss would be based on the fair value of the asset, which is based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows. The most important estimates for such calculations of undiscounted cash flows are (1) the expected additions of new tenants and equipment on our wireless infrastructure and (2) estimates regarding customer cancellations and renewals of contracts. We could record impairments in the future if changes in long term market conditions, expected future operating results or the utility of the assets results in changes for our impairment test calculations which negatively impact the fair value of our property and equipment and intangible assets, or if we changed our unit of account in the future.When grouping assets into pools for purposes of impairment evaluation, we also consider individual towers, nodes and third party land interests within a grouping for which we currently have no tenants. Approximately 3% of our total towers currently 31have no tenants. We continue to pay operating expenses on these towers in anticipation of obtaining tenants on these towers in the future, primarily because of the individual tower site demographics. In fact, we have current visibility to potential tenants on approximately half of these towers. To the extent we do not believe there are long term prospects of obtaining tenants on an individual tower, node or third party land interest and all other possible avenues for recovering the carrying value has been exhausted, including sale of the asset, we appropriately reduce the carrying value of such assets.Accounting for Long Lived Assets Impairment Evaluation Goodwill. Nearly all of our goodwill is recorded at CCUSA. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, regardless of whether adverse events or changes in circumstances have occurred. The annual test begins with goodwill and all intangible assets being allocated to applicable reporting units. We then perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If it is concluded that it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it is necessary to perform the two step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise the two step goodwill impairment test is not required. Our reporting units are the operating segments since segment management operates their respective wireless infrastructure portfolios as a single network. We performed our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2011 utilizing the qualitative assessment. We determined that the "more likely than not" threshold was achieved and no further testing of goodwill was required. This assessment was based in part on the fair value of our net assets as measured by our market capitalization exceeding by over five times the aggregate carrying amount of the reporting units as of December 31, 2011. Deferred Income Taxes. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet related to events that impact our financial statements and tax returns in different periods. In order to compute these deferred tax balances, we first analyze the differences between the book basis and tax basis of our assets and liabilities (referred to as "temporary differences"). These temporary differences are then multiplied by current tax rates to arrive at the balances for the deferred income tax assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is provided on deferred tax assets that do not meet the "more likely than not" realization threshold. We recognize a tax position if it is more likely than not it will be sustained upon examination. The tax position is measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. If our expectations about the future tax consequences of past events should prove to be inaccurate, the balances of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities could require significant adjustments in future periods. Such adjustments could cause a material effect on our results of operations for the period of the adjustment. Before giving effect to any valuation allowances, we are in an overall net deferred tax asset position in the U.S. and Australia. During 2011, in our judgment, the deferred tax assets did not meet the "more likely than not" realization threshold under GAAP principally due to our recent history of substantial losses, and as a result, we continued to record a valuation allowance fully offsetting our net deferred tax assets. Our U.S. federal and Australia valuation allowances comprise the majority of the total allowance and amounted to $130.2 million and $64.1 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. Although we reported pre tax earnings in 2011, because of the fully reserved deferred position, the impact of taxes on our net income for 2011 is immaterial. See note 9 to our consolidated financial statements.We intend to review our conclusion about the appropriate amount of our deferred income tax asset valuation allowance in light of circumstances existing in future periods. Should we continue to generate earnings at the level generated in 2011, this positive evidence would likely change our conclusion as to the realizability of the deferred tax assets which would result in a reversal of some or all of the valuation allowance. Given the importance of future annual earnings to this assessment, managements consideration would likely extend to late 2012 unless events or changes in circumstances lead to a change in our conclusion before then. One potential transaction that could result in adjustment of our valuation allowance is the consummation of our recently announced agreement to acquire NextG (see note 20 to the our consolidated financial statements). If the NextG acquisition is consummated, because of the expected significant deferred tax liabilities that would be recorded in purchase accounting related to the target company, we would likely be required to reverse a substantial portion of our existing U.S. federal valuation allowance to earnings as the acquired deferred tax liabilities would serve to offset our deferred tax assets eliminating the need for some or all of the related valuation allowance. Any future reversal of the valuation allowance would have a favorable impact on our net income but would have no effect on our cash flows. While a reversal, if any, of the valuation allowance would have a positive effect on the Companys net income in the period of reversal, our net income in periods after such reversal would be reduced as a result of an increase in the provision for income taxes to approximately the statutory rate.Impact of Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Adopted and Those Adopted in 2011 In October 2009, Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued guidance that addressed how to recognize revenue for transactions with multiple deliverables. This guidance revises the criteria for separating, measuring and allocating arrangement consideration to each consideration deliverable, which must be estimated if there is not a history of selling the deliverable on a 32stand alone basis or third party evidence of selling price. The provisions of this guidance were effective for us as of January 1, 2011 and were applied prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and did not result in a change to the pattern and timing of our revenue recognition.In September 2011, the FASB issued an amendment to the guidance on goodwill impairment testing. The amended guidance permits an entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If it is concluded that it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it is then necessary to perform the two step goodwill impairment test, which is discussed further in note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. Otherwise, the two step goodwill impairment test is not required. We have adopted this amended guidance effective during 2011. See "Item 7. MD&AAccounting and Reporting MattersCritical Accounting Policies and EstimatesAccounting for Long Lived AssetsImpairment EvaluationGoodwill."Non GAAP Financial MeasuresOur measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate the operating performance of our operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and accretion, as adjusted, or Adjusted EBITDA. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA is set forth in "Item 7. MD&AResults of OperationsComparison of Operating Segments." Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating income or loss, net income or loss, net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities or other income statement or cash flow statement data prepared in accordance with GAAP.We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to an investor in evaluating our operating performance because:it is the primary measure used by our management to evaluate the economic productivity of our operations, including the efficiency of our employees and the profitability associated with their performance, the realization of contract revenue under our long term contracts, our ability to obtain and maintain our customers and our ability to operate our site rental business effectively;it is the primary measure of profit and loss used by management for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;it is similar to the measure of current financial performance generally used in our debt covenant calculations;although specific definitions may vary, it is widely used in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure to measure operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation, amortization and accretion, which can vary depending upon accounting methods and the book value of assets; andwe believe it helps investors meaningfully evaluate and compare the results of our operations from (1) period to period and (2) to our competitors by removing the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization and accretion) from our operating results.Our management uses Adjusted EBITDA:with respect to compliance with our debt covenants, which require us to maintain certain financial ratios including, or similar to, Adjusted EBITDA;as the primary measure of profit and loss for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;as a performance goal in employee annual incentive compensation;as a measurement of operating performance because it assists us in comparing our operating performance on a consistent basis as it removes the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization and accretion) from our operating results;in presentations to our board of directors to enable it to have the same measurement of operating performance used by management;for planning purposes, including preparation of our annual operating budget;as a valuation measure in strategic analyses in connection with the purchase and sale of assets; andin determining self imposed limits on our debt levels, including the evaluation of our leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio.There are material limitations to using a measure such as Adjusted EBITDA, including the difficulty associated with comparing results among more than one company, including our competitors, and the inability to analyze certain significant items, including depreciation and interest expense, that directly affect our net income or loss. Management compensates for these limitations by considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with their analysis of net income (loss).33Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskOur primary exposures to market risks are related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We seek to manage exposure to changes in interest rates where economically prudent to do so by utilizing fixed rate debt. We do not currently hedge against foreign currency exchange risks.Interest Rate RiskOur interest rate risk relates primarily to the impact of interest rate movements on the following, after giving effect to the WCP acquisition and the January 2012 refinancing:the potential refinancing of our existing debt ($8.0 billion and $6.9 billion of debt outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively);our $1.6 billion of floating rate debt representing approximately 20% of total debt compared to 11% in the prior year; andpotential future borrowings of incremental debt.Potential Refinancing of Existing DebtOver the next 12 months we have no debt maturities other than principal payments on amortizing debt. We do not anticipate the need to access the capital markets to refinance our existing debt until at least 2015, which reflects the impact of refinancings that extended our debt maturities. As of December 31, 2011, we have no interest rate swaps hedging any refinancings. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital ResourcesOverview." Floating Rate DebtWe manage our exposure to market interest rates on our existing debt by controlling the mix of fixed and floating rate debt. As of December 31, 2011, after giving effect to the January 2012 refinancing and the WCP acquisition, we had $1.6 billion of floating rate debt. As a result, a hypothetical unfavorable fluctuation in market interest rates on our existing debt of two percentage points over a 12 month period would increase our interest expense by approximately $32 million.Potential Future Borrowings of Incremental DebtWe typically do not hedge our exposure to interest rates on potential future borrowings of incremental debt for a substantial period prior to issuance. See "Item 7. MD&ALiquidity and Capital Resources" regarding our short term liquidity strategy and note 20 to our consolidated financial statements regarding our January 2012 refinancing, including our undrawn revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan.34The following table provides information about our market risk related to changes in interest rates. The future principal payments and weighted average interest rates are presented as of December 31, 2011 and are after giving effect to the January 2012 refinancing and the WCP acquisition. These debt maturities reflect contractual maturity dates, and do not consider the impact of the principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates of certain notes (see footnote (c)). See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt. Future Principal Payments and Interest Rates by the Debt Instruments Contractual Year of Maturity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total Fair Value(a) (Dollars in thousands)Fixed rate debt (c)$33,864 $44,313 $44,806 $911,537 $43,712 $5,330,047(c)$6,408,279(c)$6,820,344Average interest rate (b)(c)5.0% 4.9% 5.0% 8.8% 5.1% 9.2%(c)9.0%(c) Variable rate debt$16,000 $16,000 $16,000 $16,000 $16,000 $1,520,000 $1,600,000 $1,600,000Average interest rate4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% (a)The fair value of our debt is based on indicative quotes (that is, non binding quotes) from brokers that require judgment to interpret market information, including implied credit spreads for similar borrowings on recent trades or bid/ask offers. These fair values are not necessarily indicative of the amount, which could be realized in a current market exchange.(b)The average interest rate represents the weighted average stated coupon rate (see footnote (c)).(c)The impact of principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates are not considered. The anticipated repayment dates are 2015, 2017 and 2020, as applicable for the 2010 tower revenue notes. As previously discussed, if the tower revenue notes are not repaid in full by the applicable anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by approximately 5% per annum and monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The tower revenue notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates ranging from 2035 to 2040 and include the impact of an assumed 5% increase in interest rate that would occur following the anticipated repayment dates but exclude the impact of monthly principal payments that would commence using Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The full year 2011 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes was approximately $456 million. The anticipated repayment date is 2015 for each class of the WCP securitized notes. If the WCP securitized notes are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by an additional approximately 5% per annum. If the WCP securitized notes are not repaid in full by their rapid amortization date of 2017, monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes, The WCP securitized notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates in 2040. The full year 2011 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes was approximately $17 million. We acquired restricted cash of $29.5 million that if not spent on third party land interests by November 2012 will be required to be used to repay principal amounts outstanding on the WCP securitized debt. 35Foreign Currency RiskThe vast majority of our foreign currency risk is related to the Australian dollar which is the functional currency of CCAL. CCAL represented 6% of our consolidated revenues and 4% of our consolidated operating income for 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the Australian dollar exchange rate had strengthened compared to the U.S. dollar by approximately 12% from the average rate for 2010. See "Item 7. MD&AResults of OperationsComparison of Operating Segments."Foreign exchange markets have recently been volatile, and we expect foreign exchange markets to continue to be volatile over the near term. We believe the risk related to our financial instruments (exclusive of inter company financing deemed a long term investment) denominated in Australian dollars is not significant to our financial condition. A hypothetical increase or decrease of 25% in Australian dollar exchange rate would increase or decrease the fair value of our financial instruments by approximately $8 million.
 
