FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20021008153413.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
Table of Contents
  Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): October 7, 2002  
Table of Contents
ITEM 5 OTHER EVENTS.
On October 7, 2002, AMB Property Corporation announced third quarter 2002 results as follows:
Earnings per share (EPS) were $0.30 for the quarter including $0.05 per share in net gains on the disposition of real estate and developments held for sale. Third quarter 2002 EPS was 11.8% below 2001 EPS of $0.34 for the same period which included less than $0.01 per share in net gains on the disposition of real estate and developments held for sale. Year-to-date 2002 EPS was $0.94, including $0.08 per share in net gains on the disposition of real estate, reflecting a decrease of 19.7% from 2001 EPS for the same period of $1.17 which included $0.41 per share in net gains on the disposition of real estate and losses of $0.24 per share for all of the Company's investments in technology related companies.
AMB's industrial assets, located predominantly in infill submarkets of major hub and gateway distribution markets, were 94.4% leased as of September 30, 2002, unchanged from June 30, 2002. The Company's same store cash basis net operating income increased 0.2% for the quarter. Year-to-date tenant retention was 73.7%, while rents on renewals and rollovers increased by a modest 0.1% as the Company continued to focus on occupancy. Year-to-date same store cash basis net operating income increased 1.1%.
Investment Activity
During the third quarter, AMB acquired eight industrial facilities for a total investment of $89.2 million and disposed of six properties for a cumulative price of $33.6 million. During the quarter, AMB completed and stabilized five industrial development projects, totaling 937,000 square feet for a total investment of $50.4 million. The industrial development and renovation pipeline currently stands at $128.1 million and consists of 2.9 million square feet, of which $98.6 million, or 77.0%, has been funded and 53% is preleased.
The Company acquired two on-tarmac cargo facilities at John F. Kennedy International Airport. The buildings combined have more than 426,500 rentable square feet, 61 truck doors with immediate ramp access and two parking spots for wide body planes. The acquisition brings AMB's on-tarmac presence to 12 domestic airports; on-tarmac real estate now accounts for over 7% of the Company's annualized base rents.
Furthering the Company's international expansion plan, AMB has formed a strategic alliance with Boustead Projects, the real estate development subsidiary of the multi-national Boustead Singapore Ltd., that will initially focus on distribution facilities in the eastern Singapore submarket of Changi Airport and in Jurong, the industrial heart of Singapore. Further, AMB is aligning with SIRIUS L'Immobilier D'Enterprise, one of the largest owners of airport-adjacent industrial buildings at France's Charles de Gaulle Roissy International Airport (CDG), to focus on projects at or near CDG airport.
Table of Contents
Other investment activity in the quarter included the repurchase of $11.4 million of the Company's common stock and $7.1 million of preferred units. In total, 433,200 shares of common stock were purchased at an average price of $26.41 per share under the Company's current share repurchase plan, leaving $88.6 million of common stock repurchase capacity under the plan. AMB's preferred unit repurchases included 130,000 of its Series F units and all of its outstanding Series G units.
Supplemental Reporting Measure
AMB reported third quarter 2002 Funds from Operations (FFO) of $0.58 per share, representing a 7.9% decrease over third quarter 2001 FFO of $0.63 per share. Year-to-date FFO per share was $1.79, up 9.1% from the same period in 2001 of $1.64. Both the current quarter and third quarter 2001 include $0.01 per share of gains on developments held for sale projects; 2001 year-to-date FFO included a $0.23 write-off of the Company's investments in technology related companies.
Forward Looking Statements
Some of the information included in this report contains forward-looking statements, such as statements pertaining to earnings and results of operations and future plans. Forward-looking statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties and you should not rely on them as predictions of future events. The events or circumstances reflected in forward-looking statements might not occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "approximately," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates" or "anticipates" or the negative of these words and phrases or similar words or phrases. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily dependent on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and we may not be able to realize them. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak only as of the date of this report or the dates indicated in the statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements: defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, increased interest rates and operating costs, our failure to obtain necessary outside financing, difficulties in identifying properties to acquire and in effecting acquisitions, our failure to successfully integrate acquired properties and operations, our failure to divest of properties we have contracted to sell or to timely reinvest proceeds from any divestitures, risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including construction delays, cost overruns, our inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to these activities), our failure to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust, environmental uncertainties, risks related to natural disasters, financial market fluctuations, changes in real estate and zoning laws, risks related to doing business internationally and increases in real property tax rates. Our success also depends upon economic trends generally, including interest rates, income tax laws, governmental regulation, legislation, population changes and certain other matters discussed under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Risks" and elsewhere in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and under the heading "Other InformationBusiness Risks" and elsewhere in our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Table of Contents
         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


