FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20040114060114.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 5 OTHER EVENTS.
On January 13, 2004, we reported fourth quarter and full year 2003 earnings per share (EPS) of $0.32 and $1.47, respectively.
Fourth quarter 2003 EPS decreased 25.6% from EPS of $0.43 in the same period of 2002. EPS for fourth quarter 2003 included $0.04 per share in net gains on disposition of real estate while the same period in the prior year included $0.16 per share in net gains. Full year 2003 EPS increased 7.3% from EPS of $1.37 in the same period of 2002.
Occupancy in our industrial operating portfolio increased 110 basis points over the prior quarter reaching 93.1% at December 31, 2003, compared with 92.0% at September 30, 2003 and 94.6% at December 31, 2002. Cash-basis same store net operating income decreased 14.5% in the quarter and decreased 5.6% for the full year, primarily reflecting the impact of lower occupancy and rental rate levels from the same period last year. Tenant retention in our operating portfolio increased from the prior quarter to 70.4% in the fourth quarter and totaled 65.3% for the full year 2003. Rents on renewal and rollover of leases decreased by 15.7% during the quarter and 10.1% for the year.
Investment Activity
During the fourth quarter, we acquired twelve properties for a total investment of $345 million, and completed $28 million in non-core and opportunistic dispositions. For the full year, acquisitions totaled $534 million; dispositions, including both direct sales and contributions of assets, totaled $366 million.
We completed and stabilized seven industrial development projects during the fourth quarter in the U.S., Mexico and France, comprising 821,000 square feet, for a total investment of $56 million. We began six new development and redevelopment projects during the quarter, representing 1.8 million square feet at an estimated total investment of $80 million. Our industrial development and renovation pipeline now stands at 16 projects in North America, Europe and Asia, totaling an estimated five million square feet with deliveries slated through 2006. Total investment in the development pipeline is estimated at $233 million, of which 39% has been funded and 34% is preleased.
Other investment activity for the year included the repurchase of 812,900 shares of our common stock for a total investment of $21 million, at a weighted average purchase price of $26.10 per share. In December 2003, our Board of Directors adopted a new two-year common stock repurchase program authorizing the acquisition of up to $200 million of our common shares. Since our IPO, we have repurchased more than six million shares of common stock for a total investment of $151 million, at a weighted average purchase price of $24.05 per share.
Table of Contents
Financing Activities
During the quarter, AMB Property, L.P. redeemed at par all of its 8 5/8% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units and we issued $58 million of 6 3/4% Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. As a result of this and other refinancing activity during 2003, we reduced the weighted average coupon on our outstanding preferred stock and units by 64 basis points.
AMB Property, L.P. issued $75 million of unsecured notes under its medium term note program during the quarter with a 5.53% coupon and ten-year term. Additionally, AMB Property, L.P. issued $50 million of floating-rate notes with a three-year term at 40 basis points over three-month LIBOR  20 basis points below AMB Property, L.P.'s marginal borrowing rate of LIBOR plus 60 basis points on its $500 million line of credit.
Promotions and Addition of Company Officers
We announced four officer promotions effective January 1, 2004. A. Brent Elkins and Ellen F. Hall are now vice presidents of international transactions. Brent and Ellen are focused on our investments in Japan and Europe, respectively. Jonathan M. Hill and Christos F. Kombouras have been promoted to vice presidents, regional managers. Jon is responsible for our assets in the San Francisco East Bay; Chris is an asset manager with our Midwest team.
We further announced that two new vice presidents have joined the our U.S. development group reporting to Eugene F. Reilly, our executive vice president of North American development. Jay R. Cornforth is responsible for East Coast development and James McGill runs our Midwest development. Jay and Jim will work out of our Boston and Chicago offices, respectively.
Supplemental Earnings Measure
We report funds from operations per fully diluted share and unit (FFOPS) in accordance with the standards established by NAREIT. Fourth quarter 2003 FFOPS was $0.59, compared with $0.61 in the same period of 2002. FFOPS for the full year ended December 31, 2003 was $2.13, compared with $2.40 for the same period in 2002. Effective January 1, 2003, to comply with NAREIT's definition of FFO, we no longer add back impairment losses when calculating FFOPS. For comparative purposes, FFOPS for the fourth quarter and full year 2002 have been adjusted by $0.03 in each period to reflect impairment losses.
In the footnotes to the following financial statements, we provide a discussion of why management believes FFO is a useful supplemental measure of operating performance, of ways in which investors might use FFO when assessing our financial performance, and of FFO's limitations as a measurement tool.
A reconciliation from net income to funds from operations is provided in the following tables.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
     (c) Exhibits:
ITEM 12 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On January 13, 2004, we issued a press release entitled "AMB Property Corporation Announces Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2003 Results," which sets forth our results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2003 and the full year 2003. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This section and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 12 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Forward Looking Statements
Some of the information included in this report contains forward-looking statements, such as statements pertaining to business strategy, future plans and future performance and operating results. Forward-looking statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties and you should not rely on them as predictions of future events. The events or circumstances reflected in forward-looking statements might not occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "approximately," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates" or "anticipates" or the negative of these words and phrases or similar words or phrases. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily dependent on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and we may not be able to realize them. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak only as of the date of this report or the dates indicated in the statements. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements: defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, increased interest rates and operating costs, our failure to obtain necessary outside financing, difficulties in identifying properties to acquire and in effecting
Table of Contents
acquisitions, our failure to successfully integrate acquired properties and operations, our failure to divest of properties we have contracted to sell or to timely reinvest proceeds from any divestitures, risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including construction delays, cost overruns, our inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to these activities), our failure to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust, environmental uncertainties, risks related to natural disasters, financial market fluctuations, changes in real estate and zoning laws, risks related to doing business internationally and increases in real property tax rates. Our success also depends upon economic trends generally, including interest rates, income tax laws, governmental regulation, legislation, population changes and certain other matters discussed under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Risks" and elsewhere in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION ANNOUNCES FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2003 RESULTS
Occupancy Reflects Improving Operating Environment; Company Achieving Significant Traction with Global Expansion
SAN FRANCISCO, January 13, 2004  AMB Property Corporation (NYSE: AMB), a leading owner and operator of industrial real estate, today reported fourth quarter and full year 2003 earnings per share (EPS) of $0.32 and $1.47, respectively. The results are a penny above the company's EPS guidance for both the quarter and full year.
Fourth quarter 2003 EPS decreased 25.6% from EPS of $0.43 in the same period of 2002. EPS for fourth quarter 2003 included $0.04 per share in net gains on disposition of real estate while the same period in the prior year included $0.16 per share in net gains. Full year 2003 EPS increased 7.3% from EPS of $1.37 in the same period of 2002.
Occupancy in the company's industrial operating portfolio increased 110 basis points over the prior quarter reaching 93.1% at December 31, 2003, compared with 92.0% at September 30, 2003 and 94.6% at December 31, 2002. Cash-basis same store net operating income decreased 14.5% in the quarter and decreased 5.6% for the full year, primarily reflecting the impact of lower occupancy and rental rate levels from the same period last year. Tenant retention in the company's operating portfolio increased from the prior quarter to 70.4% in the fourth quarter and totaled 65.3% for the full year 2003. Rents on renewal and rollover of leases decreased by 15.7% during the quarter and 10.1% for the year.
Hamid R. Moghadam, chairman and CEO, said, "Our fourth quarter occupancy reflects an improving operating environment and continues to demonstrate AMB's ability to outperform the national industrial real estate market. The fourth quarter marks the first time in three-and-a-half years that we have seen sequential quarterly gains in portfolio occupancy levels. Although several more quarters of such improvement will be required before rental rate growth begins, we find the prospects for continued improvement of industrial space demand encouraging. Business spending is strengthening and inventories are hovering at historic lows, which should drive growth in industrial space absorption as inventory restocking and industrial production accelerate."
Investment Activity
During the fourth quarter, AMB acquired twelve properties for a total investment of $345 million, and completed $28 million in non-core and opportunistic dispositions. For the full year, acquisitions totaled $534 million; dispositions, including both direct sales and contributions of assets, totaled $366 million.
AMB completed and stabilized seven industrial development projects during the fourth quarter in the U.S., Mexico and France, comprising 821,000 square feet, for a total investment of $56 million. The company began six new development and redevelopment projects during the quarter, representing 1.8 million square feet at an estimated total investment of $80 million. The company's industrial development and renovation pipeline now stands at 16 projects in North America, Europe and Asia,
 
totaling an estimated five million square feet with deliveries slated through 2006. Total investment in the development pipeline is estimated at $233 million, of which 39% has been funded and 34% is preleased.
AMB's president, W. Blake Baird, commented, "Our fourth quarter acquisition and development activity significantly expanded our global network of air cargo and logistics facilities in the U.S., Europe, Japan and Mexico. Demand for industrial space from our customers appears to be accelerating, resulting in ahead-of-schedule preleasing in our development properties with four properties stabilizing earlier than planned this quarter. Our international platform now accounts for three percent of our business and is expected to grow to 15 percent over the next three to four years."
Other investment activity for the year included the repurchase of 812,900 shares of AMB's common stock for a total investment of $21 million, at a weighted average purchase price of $26.10 per share. In December 2003, the company's Board of Directors adopted a new two-year common stock repurchase program authorizing the acquisition of up to $200 million of the company's common shares. Since its IPO, the company has repurchased more than six million shares of common stock for a total investment of $151 million, at a weighted average purchase price of $24.05 per share.
Financing Activities
During the quarter, AMB redeemed at par all of its 8 5/8% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units and issued $58 million of 6 3/4% Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. As a result of this and other refinancing activity during 2003, the company reduced the weighted average coupon on its outstanding preferred stock and units by 64 basis points.
The company issued $75 million of unsecured notes under its medium term note program during the quarter with a 5.53% coupon and ten-year term. Additionally, the company issued $50 million of floating-rate notes with a three-year term at 40 basis points over three-month LIBOR  20 basis points below the company's marginal borrowing rate of LIBOR plus 60 basis points on its $500 million line of credit.
Promotions and Addition of Company Officers
The company announced four officer promotions effective January 1, 2004. A. Brent Elkins and Ellen F. Hall are now vice presidents of international transactions. Brent and Ellen are focused on AMB's investments in Japan and Europe, respectively. Jonathan M. Hill and Christos F. Kombouras have been promoted to vice presidents, regional managers. Jon is responsible for AMB's assets in the San Francisco East Bay; Chris is an asset manager with AMB's Midwest team.
Commenting on these promotions, Mr. Moghadam stated, "Each member of this group of talented and dedicated individuals has produced sustained and meaningful results for AMB. Our stockholders will benefit from their leadership and continued contributions as we pursue our mission of enduring excellence."
The company further announced that two new vice presidents have joined the company's U.S. development group reporting to Eugene F. Reilly, AMB's executive vice president of North American development. Jay R. Cornforth is responsible for East Coast development and James McGill runs the company's Midwest development. Jay and Jim will work out of AMB's Boston and Chicago offices, respectively.
 
Supplemental Earnings Measure
AMB reports funds from operations per fully diluted share and unit (FFOPS) in accordance with the standards established by NAREIT. Fourth quarter 2003 FFOPS was $0.59, compared with $0.61 in the same period of 2002, which was above the company's guidance of $0.57 to $0.58. FFOPS for the full year ended December 31, 2003 was $2.13, compared with $2.40 for the same period in 2002, which was above the company's guidance of $2.11 to $2.12. Effective January 1, 2003, to comply with NAREIT's definition of FFO, the company no longer adds back impairment losses when calculating FFOPS. For comparative purposes, FFOPS for the fourth quarter and full year 2002 have been adjusted by $0.03 in each period to reflect impairment losses.
In the footnotes to the attached financial statements, AMB provides a discussion of why management believes FFO is a useful supplemental measure of operating performance, of ways in which investors might use FFO when assessing the company's financial performance, and of FFO's limitations as a measurement tool.
A reconciliation from net income to funds from operations is provided in the attached tables and published in AMB's quarterly supplemental analyst package, available on the company's website at www.amb.com.
Conference Call and Supplemental Information
The company will host a conference call to discuss its fourth quarter 2003 results on January 14, 2004 at 8:00 AM PST/11:00 AM EST. Stockholders and interested parties may listen to a live broadcast of the conference call by dialing +1 719 457 2621 and using reservation code 695285 or by web cast through a link on the company's website at www.amb.com. If you are unable to listen to the live conference call, a telephone and web cast replay will be available after 12:00 PM PST on Wednesday, January 14, 2004. The telephone replay will be available until 12:00 PM PST on Friday, February 13, 2004 and can be accessed by dialing +1 719 457 0820 and using reservation code 695285. The web cast can be accessed through a link on the company's website at www.amb.com and will be available until 12:00 PM PST on Friday, February 13, 2004.
In addition, the company will post a summary of the guidance given on the call and a supplement detailing the components of net asset value to the Investor Information portion of its website on Friday, January 23, 2004 by 5:00 PM PST.
AMB Property Corporation is a leading owner and operator of industrial real estate, focused on major hub and gateway distribution markets throughout North America, Europe and Asia. As of December 31, 2003 AMB owned, managed and had renovation and development projects totaling 101.5 million square feet (9.4 million square meters) and 1,057 buildings in 36 markets within seven countries. AMB invests in industrial properties located predominantly in the infill submarkets of its targeted markets. The company's portfolio is comprised largely of High Throughput Distribution facilities  industrial properties built for speed and located near airports, seaports and ground transportation systems.
AMB's press releases are available on the company website at www.amb.com or by contacting the Investor Relations department at +1 877 285 3111.
This document contains forward-looking statements about business strategy and future plans, which are made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events. The events or circumstances reflected in our forward-looking statements might not occur. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements. In particular, a number of factors could cause AMB's actual results to differ
 
materially from those anticipated, including, among other things, changes in general economic conditions or in the real estate sector; non-renewal of leases by customers or renewal at lower than expected rent; a downturn in California's economy or real estate conditions; we experience losses in excess of our insurance coverage; difficulties in identifying properties to acquire and in effecting acquisitions on advantageous terms and the failure of acquisitions to perform as we expect; our failure to divest of properties on advantageous terms or to timely reinvest proceeds from any such divestitures; risks and uncertainties affecting property development and renovation (including construction delays, cost overruns, our inability to obtain necessary permits and financings); unknown liabilities acquired from our predecessors or in connections with acquired properties; risks of doing business internationally, including unfamiliarity with new markets and currency risks; risks associated with using debt to fund acquisitions and development, including refinancing risks; our failure to obtain necessary outside financing; changes in local, state and federal regulatory requirements; environmental uncertainties; and our failure to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. AMB's success also depends upon economic trends generally, various market conditions and fluctuations. For further information on these and other factors that could impact AMB and the statements contained herein, reference should be made to AMB's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including AMB's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. The quarterly financial data contained herein is unaudited and the historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of future results.
AMB CONTACTS
 
 
 


