FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20051130180756.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.02.      Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
     On November 10, 2003, pursuant to a Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 5, 2003, AMB Property, L.P., in which we are the sole general partner, sold to Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America $75 million aggregate principal amount of its senior unsecured notes under the medium-term note program that it commenced on May 7, 2002. The notes mature on November 1, 2013 and bear interest at a rate of 5.53% per annum. We guaranteed the notes.
     The note and the Note Purchase Agreement provided that AMB Property, L.P. has the right to require Teachers to return the notes to it for cancellation for an obligation of equal dollar amount under a first mortgage loan to be secured by properties determined by AMB Property, L.P. Pursuant to this right, on December 9, 2004, AMB Property, L.P. required Teachers to return $21.1 million of the notes to it for cancellation and Teachers issued to it a first mortgage loan in this principal amount that is secured by properties in one of its joint ventures. On November 30, 2005, AMB Property, L.P. required Teachers to return the remaining $53.9 million of the notes to it for cancellation and Teachers issued to it a first mortgage loan in this principal amount that is secured by properties in one of its co-investment joint ventures.
Forward Looking Statements
     Some of the information included in this report contains forward-looking statements, such as statements pertaining to future plans. Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, and you should not rely on the forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events or circumstances reflected in forward-looking statements might not occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "approximately," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates" or "anticipates" or the negative of these words and phrases or similar words or phrases. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily dependent on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and we may not be able to realize them. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak only as of the date of this report or the dates indicated in the statements. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements: defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, increased interest rates and operating costs, our failure to obtain necessary outside financing, difficulties in identifying properties to acquire and in effecting acquisitions, our failure to successfully integrate acquired properties and operations, our failure to divest properties we have contracted to sell or to timely reinvest proceeds from any divestitures, risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including construction delays, cost overruns, our inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to these activities), our failure to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust, environmental uncertainties, risks related to natural disasters, financial market fluctuations, changes in real estate and zoning laws, risks related to doing business internationally and increases in real property tax rates. Our success also depends upon economic trends generally, including interest rates, income tax laws, governmental regulation, legislation, population changes and certain other matters discussed under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Risks" and elsewhere in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
-
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


