FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20050201161718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): February 1, 2005
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
On February 1, 2005, we disclosed a supplemental analyst package in connection with our earnings conference call for the fourth quarter of 2004. A copy of the supplemental analyst package is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This section and the attached exhibit are provided under Items 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Forward Looking Statements
Some of the information included in the supplemental analyst package and the conference call to be held in connection therewith contains forward-looking statements, such as those related to development and renovation projects (including stabilization dates, square feet at stabilization or completion, and total investment amounts), lease expirations and future business plans (such as property divestitures), which are made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, and you should not rely on the forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events or circumstances reflected in forward-looking statements might not occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "approximately," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates" or "anticipates" or the negative of these words and phrases or similar words or phrases. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily dependent on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and we may not be able to realize them. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak only as of the date of this report or the dates indicated in the statements. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements: defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, increased interest rates and operating costs, our failure to obtain necessary outside financing, difficulties in identifying properties to acquire and in effecting acquisitions, our failure to successfully integrate acquired properties and operations, our failure to divest properties we have contracted to sell or to timely reinvest proceeds from any divestitures, risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including construction delays, cost overruns, our inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to these activities), our failure to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust, environmental uncertainties, risks related to natural disasters, financial market fluctuations, changes in real estate and zoning laws, risks related to doing business internationally and increases in real property tax rates. Our success also depends upon economic trends generally, including interest rates, income tax laws, governmental regulation, legislation, population changes and
Table of Contents
certain other matters discussed under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Risks" and elsewhere in our most recent annual report for the year ended December 31, 2003 in Amendment No. 2 on Form 10-K/A.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
 
In the prior quarter, management restated AMB's previously issued financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 filed on Form 10-K/A and for the quarters ended March 31, 2004 and June 30, 2004 filed on Form 10-Q/A to reflect additional depreciation expense. The restatement affected the Company's depreciation expense, net income and earnings per share for the prior periods. The net impact of the restatement of depreciation expense on earnings per share results reduced EPS by $0.02 from $1.43 to $1.41 for 2001; by $0.04 from $1.37 to $1.33 for 2002 and by $0.06 from $1.47 to $1.41 for 2003. This restatement of depreciation expense did not impact the Company's previously reported funds from operations (FFO) per fully diluted share and unit as, in accordance with NAREIT's FFO definition, the Company adds back real estate-related depreciation to calculate FFO. Please see the Company's October 12, 2004 earnings press release, its annual report for the year ended December 31, 2003 in Amendment No. 2 on Form 10-K/A, its quarterly report for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 in Amendment No. 1 on Form 10-Q/A and its quarterly report for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 in Amendment No. 1 on Form 10-Q/A for more detail.
Cover:   AMB CDG Cargo Center is a modern 501,000 square foot (46,525 square meter) on-airport cargo facility located at Paris Roissy Charles de Gaulle Airport. The property was acquired in October 2004 and is 100% leased to La Poste, Europe's second largest postal service and AMB's fifth largest customer.
 
i
 
 
1
 
      
2
 
      
3
 
      
4
 
      
5
 
      
6
 
      
7
 
      
8
 
      
9
 
      
10
 
      
11
 
      
12
 
13
 
      
14
 
      
15
 
      
16
 
      
17
 
      
18
 
      
19
 
      
20
 
      
21
 
      
22
 
      
23
 
      
24
 
      
includes immediate building improvements that were taken into consideration when underwriting the purchase of a building or which are incurred to bring a building up to "operating standard" or to stabilization. Also includes incremental building improvements and leasing costs that are incurred in an effort to substantially increase the revenue potential of an existing building.
Acquisition/non-recurring capex
is calculated as monthly base rent (cash basis) per the lease, as of a certain date, multiplied by 12. If free rent is granted, then the first positive rent value is used.
Annualized base rent (ABR)
is calculated as AMB's share of total debt divided by the sum of total debt plus market equity and preferred stock and units at liquidation preference. AMB's share of total debt includes total consolidated debt plus AMB's pro rata share of the debt of unconsolidated joint ventures less JV partners' share of debt. Market equity assumes conversion of all OP units into common stock.
AMB's share of total debt-to-total market capitalization
is generally defined as properties that are 90% leased or properties for which we have held a certificate of occupancy or building has been substantially complete for at least 12 months.
Completion/Stabilization
are calculated from estimated NOI for the 12 months following occupancy stabilization (excluding straight-line rents) divided by the estimated total investment, including Development Alliance Partnerearnouts (if triggered by stabilization) and associated carrying costs.
Development and renovation cash yields
is adjusted EBITDA divided by total interest expense (including capitalized interest) plus preferred dividends and distributions.
Fixed charge coverage
is adjusted EBITDA divided by total GAAP interest expense.
Interest coverage
represents the percentage of total rentable square feet owned, which is leased, including month-to-month leases, as of the date reported. Space is considered leased when the tenant has either taken physical or economic occupancy.
Occupancy percentage
represents the percentage of signed leases only.
Percentage pre-leased
represent projects where the acquired buildings are less than 75% leased and require significant capital expenditures (generally more than 10% - 25% of acquisition cost) to bring the buildings up to operating standards and stabilization (generally 90% occupancy).
Renovation projects
represents non-incremental building improvements and leasing costs required to maintain current revenues. Recurring capital expenditures do not include acquisition capital that was taken into consideration when underwriting the purchase of a building or which are incurred to bring a building up to "operating standard."
Recurring capital expenditures
are calculated as the difference, weighted by square feet, of the net ABR due the first month after a term commencement date and the net ABR due the last month prior to the termination date of the former tenant's term. If free rent is granted, then the first positive full rent value is used as a point of comparison. The rental amounts exclude base stop amounts, holdover rent and premium rent charges. If either the previous or current lease terms are under 12 months, then they are excluded from this calculation. If the lease is the first in the unit (first generation) and there is no prior lease for comparison, then it is excluded from this calculation.
Rent increases on renewals and rollovers
is the change in the NOI (excluding straight-line rents) of the same store properties from the prior year reporting period to the current year reporting period.
Same store NOI growth
include all properties that were owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties for both the current and prior reporting periods. The same store pool is set annually and excludes properties purchased and developments stabilized after December 31, 2002. Same store pool includes Park One parking lot in Los Angeles, California.
Same store properties
are total tenant improvements, lease commissions and other leasing costs incurred during leasing of second generation space divided by the total square feet leased. Costs incurred prior to leasing available space are not included until such space is leased. Second generation space excludes newly developed square footage or square footage vacant at acquisition.
Second generation TIs and LCs per square foot
represents 100% of the square footage of properties either owned directly by the Company or which the Company has a controlling interest in (e.g. consolidated joint ventures) and excludes square footage of development properties prior to completion.
Square feet owned
rates are calculated as NOI, including straight-line rents, stabilized to market occupancy (generally 95%) divided by total acquisition cost. The total acquisition cost basis includes the initial purchase price, the effects of marking assumed debt to market, all due diligence and closing costs, SFAS 141 adjustments, planned immediate capital expenditures ("acquisition capex"), leasing costs necessary to achieve stabilization and, if applicable, any estimated costs required to buy-out AMB's joint venture partners. Cash rates are calculated excluding straight-line rents from NOI.
Stabilized GAAP cap rates
is the square footage of all leases renewed by existing tenants divided by the square footage of all expiring and renewed leases during the reporting period, excluding the square footage of tenants that default or buy-out prior to expiration of their lease, short-term tenants and the square footage of month-to-month leases.
Tenant retention
25
 
 
The Company uses adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or adjusted EBITDA, to measure both its operating performance and liquidity. The Company considers adjusted EBITDA to provide investors relevant and useful information because it permits fixed income investors to view income from its operations on an unleveraged basis before the effects of non-cash depreciation and amortization expense. By excluding interest expense, adjusted EBITDA allows investors to measure the Company's operating performance independent of its capital structure and indebtedness and, therefore, allows for a more meaningful comparison of its operating performance between quarters as well as annual periods and to compare its operating performance to that of other companies, both in the real estate industry and in other industries. The Company considers adjusted EBITDA to be a useful supplemental measure for reviewing its comparative performance with other companies because, by excluding non-cash depreciation expense, adjusted EBITDA can help the investing public compare the performance of a real estate company to that of companies in other industries. As a liquidity measure, the Company believes that adjusted EBITDA helps fixed income and equity investors to analyze its ability to meet debt service obligations and to make quarterly preferred share and unit distributions. Management uses adjusted EBITDA in the same manner as the Company expects investors to when measuring the Company's operating performance and liquidity; specifically when assessing its operating performance, and comparing that performance to other companies, both in the real estate industry and in other industries, and when evaluating its ability to meet debt service obligations and to make quarterly preferred share and unit distributions. The Company believes investors should consider adjusted EBITDA, in conjunction with net income (the primary measure of the Company's performance) and the other required GAAP measures of its performance and liquidity, to improve their understanding of the Company's operating results and liquidity, and to make more meaningful comparisons of the performance of its assets between periods and as against other companies. By excluding interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization when assessing the Company's financial performance, an investor is assessing the earnings generated by the Company's operations, but not taking into account the eliminated expenses incurred in connection with such operations. As a result, adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool and should be used in conjunction with the Company's required GAAP presentations. Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the Company's historical cash expenditures or future cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures or contractual commitments. Adjusted EBITDA also does not reflect the cash required to make interest and principal payments on the Company's outstanding debt. While adjusted EBITDA is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance and liquidity, it does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and it should not be considered as an alternative to those indicators in evaluating operating performance or liquidity. Further, the Company's computation of adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies.
Adjusted EBITDA.
The Company's share of total debt is the pro rata portion of the total debt based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated or unconsolidated ventures holding the debt. The Company believes that its share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of its debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. The Company's share of total debt is not intended to reflect its actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures.
Company's share of total debt.
The Company uses interest coverage to measure its liquidity. The Company considers interest coverage to provide investors relevant and useful information because it permits fixed income investors to measure the Company's ability to meet its interest payments on outstanding debt. The Company's computation of interest coverage may not be comparable to interest coverage reported by other companies.
Interest coverage.
The Company uses fixed charge coverage to measure its liquidity. The Company considers fixed charge coverage to provide investors relevant and useful information because it permits fixed income investors to measure the Company's ability to meet its interest payments on outstanding debt, make distributions to its preferred unitholders and pay dividends to its preferred shareholders. The Company's computation of fixed charge coverage may not be comparable to fixed charge coverage reported by other companies.
Fixed charge coverage.
The Company believes that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, the Company considers funds from operations, or FFO, as defined by NAREIT, to be a useful supplemental measure of its operating performance. FFO is defined as net income, calculated in accordance with GAAP, less gains (or losses) from dispositions of real estate held for investment purposes and real estate-related depreciation, and adjustments to derive the Company's pro rata share of FFO of consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. Further, the Company does not adjust FFO to eliminate the effects of non-recurring charges. The Company believes that FFO, as defined by NAREIT, is a meaningful supplemental measure of its operating performance because historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market and other conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. Thus, NAREIT created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for real estate investment trusts that excludes historical cost depreciation and amortization, among other items, from net income, as defined by GAAP. The Company believes that the use of FFO, combined with the required GAAP presentations, has been beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of real estate investment trusts among the investing public and making comparisons of operating results among such companies more meaningful. The Company considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate depreciation and amortization, FFO can help the investing public compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to other companies. While FFO is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to those measures in evaluating the Company's liquidity or operating performance. FFO also does not consider the costs associated with capital expenditures related to the Company's real estate assets nor is FFO necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Company's future cash requirements. Further, the Company's computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other real estate investment trusts that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently than the Company does.
Funds From Operations ("FFO").
Net operating income is defined as rental revenue, including reimbursements, less property operating expenses, which excludes depreciation, amortization, general and administrative expenses and interest expense. The Company considers NOI to be an appropriate supplemental performance measure because NOI reflects the operating performance of the real estate portfolio. However, NOI should not be viewed as an alternative measure of financial performance since it does not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expense, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact results from operations. Further, NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may use different methodologies for calculating NOI.
Net Operating Income ("NOI").
26
 
 
27
 
Some of the information included in this supplemental analyst package and the conference call to be held in connection therewith contains forward-looking statements, such as those related to development and renovation projects (including stabilization dates, square feet at stabilization or completion, and total investment amounts), lease expirations and future business plans (such as property divestitures), which are made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, and you should not rely on the forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events or circumstances reflected in forward-looking statements might not occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "approximately," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates" or "anticipates" or the negative of these words and phrases or similar words or phrases. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily dependent on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and we may not be able to realize them. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak only as of the date of this report or the dates indicated in the statements. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements: defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, increased interest rates and operating costs, our failure to obtain necessary outside financing, difficulties in identifying properties to acquire and in effecting acquisitions, our failure to successfully integrate acquired properties and operations, our failure to divest properties we have contracted to sell or to timely reinvest proceeds from any divestitures, risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including construction delays, cost overruns, our inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to these activities), our failure to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust, environmental uncertainties, risks related to natural disasters, financial market fluctuations, changes in real estate and zoning laws, risks related to doing business internationally and increases in real property tax rates. Our success also depends upon economic trends generally, including interest rates, income tax laws, governmental regulation, legislation, population changes and certain other matters discussed under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Risks" and elsewhere in our most recent annual report for the year ended December 31, 2003 in Amendment No. 2 on Form 10-K/A.


