FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20060621172945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
We and our subsidiary, AMB Property, L.P., expect to file a registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on June 21, 2006 with respect to the offer, from time to time, of up to $500,000,000 of one or more series of medium-term notes that may be issued by AMB Property, L.P. and guaranteed by us. In connection with the filing of this registration statement on Form S-3 and for the sole purpose of meeting post-annual report SEC reporting requirements with respect to such registration statement, we are filing this current report on Form 8-K to set forth audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, to reflect the reclassification of two properties from held for use to properties held for sale during the three-month period ended March 31, 2006.
We are amending our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 due to certain provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" that require us to report the results of operations of a property if it has either been disposed or is classified as held for sale in discontinued operations and meets certain other criteria. Accordingly, we are amending our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 to reflect two properties that were held for sale during the three months ended March 31, 2006 and met the criteria to be classified as discontinued operations. The effect of the reclassification represents a $334,000 decrease in our previously reported income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2005. As a result of the foregoing, Notes 4, 9, 13, 15, 16 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements for the three years ended December 31, 2005, have been updated. There is no effect on our previously reported net income, financial condition or cash flows. Also, there is no effect to our previously issued audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003.
In addition, we have provided herein an updated table of selected financial data and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and our results of operations, which we believe may be helpful to the investor in reviewing these amended financial statements.
Except as described above, the information presented in this current report on Form 8-K does not include any adjustments or updates to any information presented in our consolidated financial statements or elsewhere in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, which was originally filed on March 10, 2006.
Table of Contents
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     (d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 23.1
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Forms S-3 (Nos. 333-86842, 333-68291, 333-68283, 333-75953, 333-78699, 333-76823, 333-81475, 333-80815, 333-75951, 333-36894, 333-73718 and 333-120793) and Forms S-8 (Nos. 333-42015, 333-78779, 333-90042 and 333-100214) of AMB Property Corporation of our report dated March 9, 2006, except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to the effects of the discontinued operations as discussed in Note 17, as to which the date is June 5, 2006, relating to the consolidated financial statements, financial statement schedule, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
San Francisco, California June 20, 2006

 
Exhibit 99.1
     The following table sets forth selected consolidated historical financial and other data for AMB Property Corporation on a historical basis as of and for the years ended December 31:
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
     
You should read the following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the notes to consolidated financial statements.
     We commenced operations as a fully integrated real estate company effective with the completion of our initial public offering on November 26, 1997, and elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 with our initial tax return for the year ended December 31, 1997. AMB Property Corporation and AMB Property, L.P. were formed shortly before the consummation of our initial public offering.
Management's Overview
     The primary source of our revenue and earnings is rent received from customers under long-term (generally three to ten years) operating leases at our properties, including reimbursements from customers for certain operating costs, and from partnership distributions and fees from our private capital business. We also produce earnings from the strategic disposition of operating assets, from the disposition of projects in our development-for-sale or contribution program and from contributions of properties to our co-investment joint ventures. Our long-term growth is driven by our ability to maintain and increase occupancy rates or increase rental rates at our properties, and by our ability to continue to acquire and develop new properties.
     National industrial markets improved during 2005 when compared with market conditions in 2004. According to Torto Wheaton Research, the positive trend in demand began in the second quarter of 2004 and reversed 14 prior quarters of negatively trending, or rising, space availability. We believe the protracted period of rising availability created a difficult national leasing environment which is now improving, particularly in large industrial property markets tied to global trade. During the three-and-a-half year period of negatively trending industrial space availability, investor demand for industrial property (as supported by our observation of strong national sales volumes and declining acquisition capitalization rates) remained consistently strong. We believe we capitalized on the demand for acquisition property by accelerating the repositioning of our portfolio through the disposition of non-core properties. We plan to continue selling selected assets on an opportunistic basis but believe we have substantially achieved our repositioning goals.
 
     We observed two positive trends nationally for industrial real estate during the year ended December 31, 2005, supported by data provided by Torto Wheaton Research. First, national industrial space availability declined 130 basis points during the year from 10.9% to 9.6%. The availability rate has fallen for seven consecutive quarters, reversing the trend of the prior 14 quarters in which
 
national industrial space availability increased on average 36 basis points per quarter. Second, national absorption of industrial space, defined as the net change in occupied stock as measured by square feet of completions less the change in available square feet, totaled approximately 281 million square feet in the year ended December 31, 2005, substantially exceeding the 183 million square feet of space absorbed in 2004 and well above the previous ten-year historical average of 139 million square feet of space absorbed annually.
     In this improved environment, our industrial portfolio's occupancy levels increased to 95.8% at December 31, 2005 from 94.8% at December 31, 2004, which we believe reflects higher levels of demand for industrial space generally and in our portfolio specifically. During the year ended December 31, 2005, our lease expirations totaled approximately 17.6 million square feet while commencements of new or renewed leases totaled approximately 21.3 million square feet, resulting in an increase in our occupancy level of approximately 100 basis points.
     Rental rates on industrial renewals and rollovers in our portfolio decreased 9.7% during the year ended December 31, 2005 as leases were entered into or renewed at rates consistent with what we believe to be current market levels. We believe this decline in rents on lease renewals and rollovers reflects trends in national industrial space availability. We believe that relatively high levels of national industrial space availability have caused market rents for industrial properties to decline between 10% and 20% from their peak levels in 2001 based on our research data; 42.5% of the space that rolled over in our portfolio in 2005 had commenced between 1999 and 2001. Rental rates in our portfolio declined at successively lower rates in each of the last three quarters during 2005, which we believe indicates a stabilization of market rental rate levels. While the level of rental rate reduction varied by market, we achieved occupancy levels in our portfolio 540 basis points in excess of the national industrial market, as determined by Torto Wheaton Research, by pricing lease renewals and new leases with sensitivity to local market conditions. During periods of decreasing or stabilizing rental rates, we strove to sign leases with shorter terms to prevent locking in lower rent levels for long periods and to be prepared to sign new, longer-term leases during periods of growing rental rates. When we sign leases of shorter duration, we attempt to limit overall leasing costs and capital expenditures by offering different grades of tenant improvement packages, appropriate to the lease term.
     We expect development to be a significant driver of our earnings growth as we expand our land and development pipeline, and contribute completed development projects into our co-investment program and recognize development profits. We believe that development, renovation and expansion of well-located, high-quality industrial properties should generally continue to provide us with attractive investment opportunities at a higher rate of return than we may obtain from the purchase of existing properties. We believe that our development opportunities in Mexico and Japan are particularly attractive given the current lack of supply of modern industrial distribution facilities in the major metropolitan markets of these countries. Globally, we have increased our development pipeline from $106.8 million at the end of 2002 to approximately $1.1 billion at December 31, 2005. In addition to our committed development pipeline, we hold a total of 1,307 acres for future development or sale. We believe these 1,307 acres of land could support approximately 24.3 million square feet of future development.
     Going forward, we believe that our co-investment program with private-capital investors will continue to serve as a significant source of revenues and capital for acquisitions. Through these co-investment joint ventures, we typically earn acquisition and development fees, asset management fees and priority distributions, as well as promoted interests and incentive distributions based on the performance of the co-investment joint ventures; however, we can not assure you that we will continue to do so. Through contribution of development properties to our co-investment joint ventures, we expect to recognize value creation from our development pipeline. As of December 31, 2005, we owned approximately 54.8 million square feet of our properties (47.7% of the total operating and development portfolio) through our consolidated and unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures. We may make additional investments through these co-investment joint ventures or new joint ventures in the future and presently plan to do so.
     By the end of 2007, we plan to have approximately 15% of our operating portfolio (based on both consolidated and unconsolidated annualized base rent) invested in international markets. Our North American target markets outside of the United States currently include Guadalajara, Mexico City, Monterrey and Toronto. Our European target markets currently include Amsterdam, Brussels, Frankfurt, Hamburg, London, Lyon, Madrid, Milan and Paris. Our Asian target markets currently include Beijing, Busan, Nagoya, Osaka, the Pearl River Delta, Seoul, Shanghai, Singapore and Tokyo. It is possible that our target markets will change over time to reflect experience, market opportunities, customer needs and changes in global distribution patterns. As of December 31, 2005, our international operating properties comprised 7.1% of our annualized base rents, including properties owned by our unconsolidated joint ventures.
     To maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust, we must pay dividends to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our taxable income. As a result, we cannot rely on retained earnings to fund our on-going operations to the same extent that other corporations that are not real estate investment trusts can. We must continue to raise capital in both the debt and equity
 
markets to fund our working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a complete discussion of the sources of our capital.
Summary of Key Transactions in 2005
 During the year ended December 31, 2005, we completed the following significant capital deployment transactions:
     See Part IV, Item 15: Notes 3 and 4 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a more detailed discussion of our acquisition, development and disposition activity.
     During the year ended December 31, 2005, we completed the following significant capital markets and other financing transactions:
     See Part IV, Item 15: Notes 6, 9 and 11 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a more detailed discussion of our capital markets transactions.
 
Critical Accounting Policies
     Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. ("GAAP"). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We evaluate our assumptions and estimates on an on-going basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements:
     Investments in real estate are stated at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost cannot be recovered, in which case the carrying value of the property is reduced to estimated fair value. We also record at acquisition an intangible asset or liability for the value attributable to above or below-market leases, in-place leases and lease origination costs for all acquisitions. Carrying values for financial reporting purposes are reviewed for impairment on a property-by-property basis quarterly and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be recoverable. Impairment is recognized when estimated expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) are less than the carrying amount of the property. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future market conditions and the availability of capital. Examples of certain situations that could affect future cash flows of a property may include, but are not limited to: significant decreases in occupancy; unforeseen bankruptcy, lease termination and move-out of a major customer; or a significant decrease in annual base rents of that property. If impairment analysis assumptions change, then an adjustment to the carrying amount of our long-lived assets could occur in the future period in which the assumptions change. To the extent that a property is impaired, the excess of the carrying amount of the property over its estimated fair value is charged to earnings.
Investments in Real Estate.
     We record rental revenue from operating leases on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases and maintain an allowance for estimated losses that may result from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If customers fail to make contractual lease payments that are greater than our allowance for doubtful accounts, security deposits and letters of credit, then we may have to recognize additional doubtful account charges in future periods. We monitor the liquidity and creditworthiness of our customers on an on-going basis by reviewing their financial condition periodically as appropriate. Each period we review our outstanding accounts receivable, including straight-line rents, for doubtful accounts and provide allowances as needed. We also record lease termination fees when a customer has executed a definitive termination agreement with us and the payment of the termination fee is not subject to any conditions that must be met or waived before the fee is due to us. If a customer remains in the leased space following the execution of a definitive termination agreement, the applicable termination fees are deferred and recognized over the term of such customer's occupancy.
Revenue Recognition.
     We report real estate dispositions in three separate categories on our consolidated statements of operations. First, when we divest a portion of our interests in real estate entities or properties, gains from the sale represent the interests acquired by third-party investors for cash. Second, we dispose of value-added conversion projects and build-to-suit and speculative development projects for which we have not generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized from the disposition of these projects is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable. Lastly, beginning in 2002, SFAS No. 144, required us to separately report as discontinued operations the historical operating results attributable to operating properties sold and the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the properties. The consolidated statements of operations for prior periods are also adjusted to conform with this classification. There is no impact on our previously reported consolidated financial position, net income or cash flows. In all cases, gains and losses are recognized using the full accrual method of accounting. Gains relating to transactions which do not meet the requirements of the full accrual method of accounting are deferred and recognized when the full accrual method of accounting criteria are met.
Property Dispositions.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,
     We hold interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. We determine consolidation based on standards set forth in EITF 96-16, Statement of Position 78-9, and FASB Interpretation No. 46R, "FIN 46". Based on the guidance set forth in these pronouncements, we consolidate certain joint venture investments because we exercise significant control over major operating decisions, such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers, asset management, investment activity and changes in financing. For joint ventures that are variable interest entities as defined under FIN 46 where we are not the
Joint Ventures.
Investor's Accounting for an Investee When the Investor Has a Majority of the Voting Interest but the Minority Shareholder or Shareholders Have Certain Approval or Veto Rights,
Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
primary beneficiaries, we do not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures where we do not exercise significant control over major operating and management decisions, but where we exercise significant influence, we use the equity method of accounting and do not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes.
     In June 2005, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") issued EITF 04-5, Under this consensus, a sole general partner is presumed to control a limited partnership (or similar entity) and should consolidate that entity unless the limited partners possess kick-out rights or other substantive participating rights as described in EITF 96-16, As of June 29, 2005, this consensus was effective immediately for all new or modified agreements, and effective beginning in the first reporting period that ends after December 15, 2005 for all existing agreements. We adopted the consolidation requirements of this consensus in the third quarter 2005 for all new or modified agreements and will adopt the consensus for existing agreements in the first quarter of 2006. There was not a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows upon the adoption of the consolidation requirements of this consensus for all new or modified agreements. We do not believe that there will be a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, upon adopting the consensus for existing agreements.
Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights.
Investor's Accounting for an Investee When the Investor has a Majority of the Voting Interest but the Minority Shareholder or Shareholders Have Certain Approval or Veto rights.
     As a real estate investment trust, we generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income taxes in the U.S. if we meet minimum distribution, income, asset and shareholder tests. However, some of our subsidiaries may be subject to federal and state taxes. In addition, foreign entities may also be subject to the taxes of the host country. An income tax allocation is required to be estimated on our taxable income arising from our taxable REIT subsidiaries and international entities. A deferred tax component could arise based upon the differences in GAAP versus tax income for items such as depreciation and gain recognition. However, we believe deferred tax is an immaterial component of our consolidated balance sheet.
Real Estate Investment Trust.
     The analysis below includes changes attributable to same store growth, acquisitions, development activity and divestitures. Same store properties are those that we owned during both the current and prior year reporting periods, excluding development properties stabilized after December 31, 2003 (generally defined as properties that are 90% leased or properties for which we have held a certificate of occupancy or where building has been substantially complete for at least 12 months).
     As of December 31, 2005, same store industrial properties consisted of properties aggregating approximately 72.5 million square feet. The properties acquired during 2005 consisted of 41 buildings, aggregating approximately 6.9 million square feet. The properties acquired during 2004 consisted of 64 buildings, aggregating approximately 7.6 million square feet. During 2005, property divestitures and contributions consisted of 150 buildings, aggregating approximately 10.6 million square feet. In 2004, property divestitures and contributions consisted of 29 industrial buildings, two retail centers and one office, aggregating approximately 4.4 million square feet. Our future financial condition and results of operations, including rental revenues, may be impacted by the acquisition of additional properties and dispositions. Our future revenues and expenses may vary materially from historical results.
For the Years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in millions)
 
     The decrease in U.S. industrial same store rental revenues was primarily driven by decreased lease termination fees and decreased rental rates in various markets. These decreases were partially offset by increased occupancy. Industrial same store occupancy was 95.6% at December 31, 2005 and 95.2% at December 31, 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2005, rents in the same store portfolio decreased 9.8% on industrial renewals and rollovers (cash basis) on 13.0 million square feet leased due to decreases in market rates. The properties acquired during 2004 consisted of 64 buildings, aggregating approximately 7.6 million square feet. The properties acquired during 2005 consisted of 41 buildings, aggregating approximately 6.9 million square feet. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from properties that have been contributed to an unconsolidated joint venture, and accordingly are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development projects that have reached certain levels of operation and are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. In 2004 and 2005, we continued to acquire properties in China, France, Germany, Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands, resulting in increased international industrial revenues. The increase in private capital income of $31.0 million was primarily due to incentive distributions for 2005 of $26.4 million for the sale of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund I, asset management priority distributions from AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., and acquisition fees from AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P.
     Same store properties' operating expenses showed a decrease of $0.2 million from the prior year. The 2004 acquisitions consisted of 64 buildings, aggregating approximately 7.6 million square feet. The 2005 acquisitions consisted of 41 buildings, aggregating approximately 6.9 million square feet. Other industrial expenses include expenses from properties that have been contributed to an
 
unconsolidated joint venture, and accordingly are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development properties that have reached certain levels of operation and are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. In 2004 and 2005, we continued to acquire properties in China, France, Germany, Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands, resulting in increased international industrial operating costs. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was due to the increase in our net investment in real estate. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of $17.0 million in personnel costs related to additional staffing and expenses for new initiatives, including our international and development expansions, and an increase of $1.5 million due to the expansion of satellite offices. Fund costs represent general and administrative costs paid to third parties associated with our consolidated co-investment joint ventures.
     The $7.0 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures was primarily due to a gain of $5.4 million from the disposition of real estate by one of our unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures during the second quarter of 2005. The increase in interest and other income was primarily due to increased bank interest income and a $1.0 million other fee. The 2005 gains from disposition of real estate interests resulted primarily from our contribution of $106.9 million (using exchange rate in effect at contribution) in operating properties to our newly-formed unconsolidated co-investment joint venture, AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. The 2004 gains from disposition of real estate interests resulted from our contribution of $71.5 million in operating properties to our unconsolidated co-investment joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC. Development profits represent gains from the sale of development projects and land as part of our development-for-sale program. The increase in development profits was due to increased volume in 2005. During 2005, we sold five land parcels and five development projects, aggregating approximately 0.9 million square feet for an aggregate price of $155.2 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $45.1 million. In addition, during 2005, we received final proceeds of $7.8 million from a land sale that occurred in 2004. During 2005, we also contributed one completed development project into an unconsolidated joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, and recognized an after-tax gain of $1.9 million representing the partial sale of our interest in the contributed property acquired by the third-party co-investor for cash. During 2004, we sold seven land parcels and six development projects as part of our development-for-sale program, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet for an aggregate price of $40.4 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $6.5 million. During 2004, we also contributed one completed development project into a newly formed unconsolidated joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, and recognized an after-tax gain of $2.0 million representing the partial sale of our interest in the contributed property acquired by the third-party co-investor for cash.
     During 2005, we divested ourselves of 142 industrial buildings and one retail center, aggregating approximately 9.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of approximately $926.6 million, with a resulting net gain of approximately $113.6 million. Included in these divestitures is the sale of the assets of AMB Alliance Fund I for $618.5 million. The multi-investor fund owned 100 buildings totaling approximately 5.8 million square feet. We received cash and a distribution of an on-tarmac property, AMB DFW Air Cargo Center I, in exchange for our 21% interest in the fund. During 2004, we divested ourselves of 21 industrial buildings, two retail centers and one office building, aggregating approximately 3.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $200.3 million, with a resulting net gain of $42.0 million.
 
     In December 2005, we issued 3,000,000 shares of 7.0% Series O Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. The increase in preferred stock dividends is due to the newly issued shares.
 
For the Years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (dollars in millions)
     The increase in U.S. industrial same store rental revenues was primarily driven by increased lease termination fees. Industrial same store occupancy was 95.2% at December 31, 2004 and 93.0% at December 31, 2003. For the year ended December 31, 2004, rents in the same store portfolio decreased 14.7% on industrial renewals and rollovers (cash basis) on 16.2 million square feet leased due to decreases in market rates. The properties acquired during 2003 consisted of 82 buildings, aggregating approximately 6.5 million square feet. The properties acquired during 2004 consisted of 64 buildings, aggregating approximately 7.6 million square feet. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from divested properties that have been contributed to an unconsolidated joint venture, and accordingly are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development projects that have reached certain levels of operation and are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. In 2003 and 2004, we continued to acquire properties in France, Germany, Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands, resulting in increased international industrial revenues. The decrease in private capital income was due to greater incentive fees earned in the prior year.
     Same store properties' operating expenses showed an increase of $6.7 million from the prior year due primarily to increased real estate tax expenses. The 2004 acquisitions consisted of 64 buildings, aggregating approximately 7.6 million square feet. Other industrial expenses include expenses from divested properties that have been contributed to an unconsolidated joint venture, and accordingly are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development properties that have reached certain levels of operation and are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. In 2003 and 2004, we continued to acquire properties in France, Germany, Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands, resulting in increased international industrial property operating costs. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was due to the increase in our net investment in real
 
estate. The 2003 impairment loss was on investments in real estate and leasehold interests. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased stock-based compensation expense of $2.3 million and additional staffing and expenses for new initiatives, including our international and development expansions. Fund costs represent general and administrative costs paid to third parties associated with our co-investment joint ventures. The increase in fund costs was due to additional formation of co-investment joint ventures in 2004.
     The $1.7 million decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures was primarily due to decreased occupancy at a property held by one of our joint ventures and increased non-reimbursable expenses. This decrease was offset by the receipt of a lease termination fee at a property in Chicago in the first quarter of 2004. The gains from dispositions of real estate (not classified as discontinued operations) in 2004, resulted from our contribution of $71.5 million in operating properties to our newly formed unconsolidated co-investment joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC. The gains from disposition of real estate (not classified as discontinued operations) in 2003, resulted from our contribution of $94.0 million in operating properties to our unconsolidated co-investment joint venture, Industrial Fund I, LLC. Development profits represent gains from sales from our development-for-sale and contribution program. During 2004, we sold seven land parcels and six development projects as part of our development-for-sale program, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet for an aggregate price of $40.4 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $6.5 million. During 2004, we also contributed one completed development project into a newly-formed unconsolidated joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, and recognized an after-tax gain of $2.0 million representing the partial sale of our interest in the contributed property acquired by the third-party co-investor for cash. During 2003, we sold seven development-for-sale and other projects, for an aggregate price of $74.8 million, with a resulting gain of $14.4 million, net of taxes. The increase in interest expense, including amortization, was due to the issuance of additional unsecured debt under our 2002 medium-term note program, increased borrowings on the unsecured credit facilities and additional secured debt borrowings in our co-investment joint ventures.
     During 2004, we divested ourselves of 21 industrial buildings, two retail centers and one office building, aggregating approximately 3.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $200.3 million, with a resulting net gain of $42.0 million. During 2003, we divested ourselves of 24 industrial buildings and two retail centers, aggregating approximately 2.8 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $272.3 million, with a resulting net gain of $42.9 million.
     In July 2003, we redeemed all 3,995,800 outstanding shares of our 8.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock and recognized a reduction of income available to common stockholders of $3.7 million for the original issuance costs. In addition, on November 26, 2003, the operating partnership redeemed all 1,300,000 of its outstanding 8 5/8% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Partnership Units and we recognized a reduction of income available to common stockholders of $1.7 million for the original issuance costs. In June and November 2003, we issued 2,000,000 shares of 6.5% Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock and 2,300,000 shares of 6.75% Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, respectively. The timing of the newly issued shares contributed to the increase in preferred stock dividends.
 
     In general, we use unsecured lines of credit, unsecured notes, preferred stock and common equity (issued by us and/or the operating partnership and its subsidiaries) to capitalize our 100%-owned assets. Over time, we plan to retire non-recourse, secured debt encumbering our 100%-owned assets and replace that debt with unsecured notes. In managing our co-investment joint ventures, in general, we use non-recourse, secured debt to capitalize our co-investment joint ventures.
Balance Sheet Strategy.
     We currently expect that our principal sources of working capital and funding for acquisitions, development, expansion and renovation of properties will include:
     We currently expect that our principal funding requirements will include:
     We believe that our sources of working capital, specifically our cash flow from operations, borrowings available under our unsecured credit facilities and our ability to access private and public debt and equity capital, are adequate for us to meet our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.
Capital Resources
     During 2005, we recognized a gain of $1.3 million from disposition of real estate interests, representing the additional value received from the contribution of properties in 2004 to AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC.
Dispositions of Real Estate Interests.
     During 2005, we contributed $106.9 million (using exchange rate in effect at contribution) in operating properties, consisting of six industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 0.9 million square feet, to our newly formed unconsolidated co-investment joint venture, AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. We recognized a total gain of $17.8 million on the contribution, representing the partial sale of our interests in the contributed properties acquired by the third-party investors for cash.
     During 2005, we divested ourselves of 142 industrial buildings and one retail center, aggregating approximately 9.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $926.6 million, with a resulting net gain of $113.6 million. Included in these divestitures is the sale of the assets of AMB Alliance Fund I for $618.5 million. The multi-investor fund owned 100 buildings totaling approximately 5.8 million square feet. We received cash and a distribution of an on-tarmac property, AMB DFW Air Cargo Center I, in exchange for our 21% interest in the fund. We also received a net incentive distribution of approximately $26.4 million in cash which is classified under private capital income on the consolidated statement of operations.
Property Divestitures.
 
     During 2005, we sold five land parcels and five development projects, aggregating approximately 0.9 million square feet for an aggregate price of $155.2 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $45.1 million. In addition, during 2005, we received final proceeds of $7.8 million from a land sale that occurred in 2004. During 2005, we also contributed one completed development project into an unconsolidated joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, and recognized an after-tax gain of $1.9 million representing the partial sale of our interest in the contributed property acquired by the third-party co-investor for cash.
Development Sales and Contributions.
     As of December 31, 2005, we held for contribution to a co-investment joint venture one industrial building with an aggregate net book value of $32.8 million, which, when contributed to the joint venture, will reduce our current ownership interest from approximately 98% to an expected range of 20-50%. This asset is not being held for divestiture under SFAS No. 144.
Properties Held for Contribution.
     As of December 31, 2005, we held for divestiture five industrial buildings and one undeveloped land parcel, which are not in our core markets, do not meet our current strategic objectives or which we have included as part of our development-for-sale program. The divestitures of the properties are subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and other customary conditions. As of December 31, 2005, the net carrying value of the properties held for divestiture was $17.9 million. Expected net sales proceeds exceed the net carrying value of the properties.
Properties Held for Divestiture.
     Through the operating partnership, we enter into co-investment joint ventures with institutional investors. These co-investment joint ventures are managed by our private capital group and provide us with an additional source of capital to fund certain acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. We generally consolidate these joint ventures for financial reporting purposes because they are not variable interest entities and because we are the sole managing general partner and control all major operating decisions. However, in certain cases, our co-investment joint ventures are unconsolidated because we do not control all major operating decisions.
Co-investment Joint Ventures.
     Third-party equity interests in the joint ventures are reflected as minority interests in the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2005, we owned approximately 54.8 million square feet of our properties (47.7% of the total operating and development portfolio) through our consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. We may make additional investments through these joint ventures or new joint ventures in the future and presently plan to do so. Our consolidated co-investment joint ventures at December 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
 
     We have authorized for issuance 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which the following series were designated as of December 31, 2005: 1,595,337 shares of series D preferred; 220,440 shares of series E cumulative redeemable preferred; 267,439 shares of series F cumulative redeemable preferred of which 201,139 are outstanding; 840,000 shares of series H cumulative redeemable preferred; 510,000 shares of series I cumulative redeemable preferred; 800,000 shares of series J cumulative redeemable preferred; 800,000 shares of series K cumulative redeemable preferred; 2,300,000 shares of series L cumulative redeemable preferred, of which 2,000,000 are outstanding; 2,300,000 shares of series M cumulative redeemable preferred, all of which are outstanding and 3,000,000 shares of series O cumulative redeemable preferred, all of which are outstanding.
Common and Preferred Equity.
     On December 13, 2005, we issued and sold 3,000,000 shares of 7.00% Series O Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.75 per annum. The series O preferred stock is redeemable by us on or after December 13, 2010, subject to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the redemption date. We contributed the net proceeds of $72.3 million to the operating partnership, and in exchange, the operating partnership issued to us 3,000,000 7.00% Series O Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.
     On June 23, 2003, we issued and sold 2,000,000 shares of 6.5% Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at a price of $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.625 per annum. The series L preferred stock is redeemable by us on or after June 23, 2008, subject to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the redemption date. We contributed the net proceeds of approximately $48.0 million to the operating partnership, and in exchange, the operating partnership issued to us 2,000,000 6.5% Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units. The operating partnership used the proceeds, in addition to proceeds previously contributed to the operating partnership from other equity issuances, to redeem all 3,995,800 of its 8.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units from us on July 28, 2003. We, in turn, used those proceeds to redeem all 3,995,800 of our 8.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock for $100.2 million, including all accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, to the redemption date.
     On November 25, 2003, we issued and sold 2,300,000 shares of 6.75% Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.6875 per annum. The series M preferred stock is redeemable by us on or after November 25, 2008, subject to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the redemption date. We contributed the net proceeds of $55.4 million to the operating partnership, and in exchange, the operating partnership issued to us 2,300,000 6.75% Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.
     On September 24, 2004, AMB Property II, L.P., a partnership in which Texas AMB I, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and our indirect subsidiary, owns an approximate 1.0% general partnership interest and the operating partnership owns an approximate 99% common limited partnership interest, issued 729,582 5.0% Series N Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units at a price of $50.00 per unit. The series N preferred units were issued to Robert Pattillo Properties, Inc. in exchange for the contribution of certain parcels of land that are located in multiple markets to AMB Property II, L.P. Effective January 27, 2006, Robert Pattillo Properties, Inc. exercised its rights under its Put Agreement, dated September 24, 2004, with the operating partnership, and sold all of its series N preferred units to the operating partnership at a price equal to $50.00 per unit, plus all accrued and unpaid distributions to the date of such sale. Also on January 27, 2006, AMB Property II, L.P. repurchased all of the series N preferred units from the operating partnership at a price equal to $50.00 per unit, plus all accrued and unpaid distributions to the date of such sale and cancelled all of the outstanding series N preferred units as of such date.
 
     As of December 31, 2005, $142.8 million in preferred units with a weighted average rate of 7.87%, issued by the operating partnership, were callable under the terms of the partnership agreement and $102.0 million in preferred units with a weighted average rate of 6.9% become callable in 2006.
     In December 2005, our board of directors approved a new two-year common stock repurchase program for the repurchase of up to $200.0 million of our common stock. We did not repurchase or retire any shares of our common stock during the year ended December 31, 2005.
     In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, we presently intend to operate with an our share of total debt-to-our share of total market capitalization ratio of approximately 45% or less. As of December 31, 2005, our share of total debt-to-our share of total market capitalization ratio was 34.7%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for our definitions of "our share of total market capitalization," "market equity" and "our share of total debt.") However, we typically finance our consolidated co-investment joint ventures with secured debt at a loan-to-value ratio of 50-65% per our joint venture partnership agreements. Additionally, we currently intend to manage our capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on our senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, our organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. Accordingly, our management could alter or eliminate these policies without stockholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render us unable to comply with these policies.
Debt.
     As of December 31, 2005, the aggregate principal amount of our secured debt was $1.9 billion, excluding unamortized debt premiums of $12.0 million. Of the $1.9 billion of secured debt, $1.4 billion is secured by properties in our joint ventures. The secured debt is generally non-recourse and bears interest at rates varying from 0.6% to 10.4% per annum (with a weighted average rate of 5.7%) and final maturity dates ranging from January 2006 to January 2025. As of December 31, 2005, $1.6 billion of the secured debt obligations bears interest at fixed rates with a weighted average interest rate of 6.3% while the remaining $291.7 million bears interest at variable rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 2.1%).
     As of December 31, 2005, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $975.0 million in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.2% and had an average term of 5.2 years. These unsecured senior debt securities include $300.0 million in notes issued in June 1998, $250.0 million of medium-term notes, which were issued under the operating partnership's 2000 medium-term note program, $325.0 million of medium-term notes, which were issued under the operating partnership's 2002 medium-term note program, and approximately $112.5 million of 5.094% Notes Due 2015, which were issued to Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America on July 11, 2005 in a private placement, in exchange for the cancellation of $100 million of notes that were issued in June 1998 resulting in a discount of approximately $12.5 million. The unsecured senior debt securities are subject to various covenants.
     We guarantee the operating partnership's obligations with respect to its senior debt securities. If we are unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then our cash flow may be insufficient to pay dividends to our stockholders in all years and to repay debt upon maturity. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.
     On June 1, 2004, the operating partnership completed the early renewal of its senior unsecured revolving line of credit in the amount of $500.0 million. We remain a guarantor of the operating partnership's obligations under the credit facility. The three-year credit facility includes a multi-currency component under which up to $250.0 million can be drawn in Yen, Euros or British Pounds Sterling. The line, which matures in June 2007 and carries a one-year extension option, can be increased up to $700.0 million upon certain conditions, and replaces the operating partnership's previous $500.0 million credit facility that was to mature in December 2005. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, based on the operating partnership's long-term debt rating, which is currently 60 basis points with an annual facility fee of 20 basis points, based on the current credit rating of the operating partnership's long-term debt. The operating partnership uses its unsecured credit facility principally for acquisitions, funding development activity and general working capital requirements. The total amount available under the credit facility fluctuates based upon the borrowing base, as defined in the agreement governing the credit facility, which is generally based upon the value of our unencumbered properties. As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance on the credit facility was $216.8 million and the remaining amount available was $244.8 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $38.4 million (excluding the additional $200.0 million of potential additional capacity). The outstanding balance included borrowings denominated in Euros and Yen, which, using
Credit Facilities.
 
the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2005, would equal approximately $173.1 million and $43.7 million in U.S. dollars, respectively.
     On June 29, 2004, AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership, entered into an unsecured revolving credit agreement providing for loans or letters of credit. On December 8, 2005, the unsecured revolving credit agreement was amended to increase the maximum principal amount outstanding at any time to up to 35.0 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2005, equaled approximately $297.2 million U.S. dollars, and can be increased to up to 40.0 billion Yen upon certain conditions. We, along with the operating partnership, guarantee the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K. under the revolving credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest, and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the revolving credit agreement. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and for other real estate purposes in Japan. Generally, borrowers under the revolving credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the revolving credit facility with certain real estate assets or equity in entities holding such real estate assets. The revolving credit facility matures in June 2007 and has a one-year extension option, which is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.25% of the outstanding commitments under the facility at that time. The rate on the borrowings is generally TIBOR plus a margin, which is based on the current credit rating of the operating partnership's long-term debt and is currently 60 basis points. In addition, there is an annual facility fee, payable in quarterly amounts, which is based on the credit rating of the operating partnership's long-term debt, and is currently 20 basis points of the outstanding commitments under the facility. As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2005, was $205.8 million in U.S. dollars.
     On November 24, 2004, AMB Tokai TMK, a Japanese subsidiary of the operating partnership, entered into a secured multi-advance project financing, providing for loans in a maximum principal amount outstanding at any time of up to 20.0 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2005, would equal approximately $169.9 million U.S. dollars. The financing agreement is among AMB Tokai TMK, us, the operating partnership, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation and a syndicate of banks. We, along with the operating partnership, jointly and severally guarantee AMB Tokai TMK's obligations under the financing agreement, pursuant to a guaranty of payment executed in connection with the project financing. The financing is secured by a mortgage on certain real property located in Tokai, Tokyo, Japan, and matures on October 31, 2006 with a one-year extension option. The rate on the borrowings will generally be TIBOR plus a margin, which is based on the credit rating of the operating partnership's long-term debt and is currently 60 basis points per annum, except that AMB Tokai TMK has purchased from Sumitomo an interest rate swap, which has fixed the interest rate payable on a principal amount equal to 13.0 billion Yen at 1.32% per annum plus the applicable margin. In addition, there is an annual commitment fee based on unused commitments, payable quarterly, which is based on the credit rating of the operating partnership's long-term debt, and is currently 20 basis points of the amount of unused commitments. The financing agreement contains affirmative covenants, including financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. In addition, Sumitomo, AMB Tokai TMK and the operating partnership signed a commitment letter on November 24, 2004, pursuant to which Sumitomo committed to purchase bonds that may be issued by AMB Tokai TMK in an amount between 10.0 billion Yen and 15.0 billion Yen (such amount to be determined by AMB Tokai TMK). The bonds would be secured by the AMB Ohta Distribution Center and would generally accrue interest at a rate of TIBOR plus 1.10% per annum; because the swap purchased by AMB Tokai TMK from Sumitomo is coterminous with the maturity date of the proposed bonds, AMB Tokai TMK will have fixed the interest rate payable on, in general, a principal amount equal to 13.0 billion Yen at 2.42% per annum. The bonds, if issued, would mature on October 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance on this financing agreement was 19.5 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2005, equaled approximately $165.6 million U.S. dollars and is accounted for as wholly-owned secured debt.
     On February 16, 2006, the operating partnership and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries entered into a third amended and restated credit agreement for a $250 million unsecured multi-currency revolving credit facility with a maturity date of February 2010, that replaced the then-existing $100 million unsecured multi-currency revolving credit facility that was to mature in June 2008. As of December 31, 2005, we had an additional outstanding balance of $67.5 million under the then-existing facility.
     Through a wholly-owned subsidiary, we hold a mortgage loan receivable on AMB Pier One, LLC, an unconsolidated joint venture. The note bears interest at 13.0% and matures in May 2026. As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance on the note was $12.8 million. We also hold a loan receivable on G. Accion, an unconsolidated joint venture totaling $8.8 million with an interest rate of 10.0%. The loan matures in November 2006.
Mortgages Receivable.
 
     The tables below summarize our debt maturities, capitalization and reconcile our share of total debt to total consolidated debt as of December 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
Liquidity
     As of December 31, 2005, we had $232.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and $368.8 million of additional available borrowings under our credit facilities. As of December 31, 2005, we had $34.4 million in restricted cash.
 
     Our board of directors declared a regular cash dividend for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 of $0.44 per share of common stock, and the operating partnership announced its intention to pay a regular cash distribution for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 of $0.44 per common unit. The dividends and distributions were payable on January 6, 2006 to stockholders and unitholders of record on December 22, 2005. The series L and M preferred stock dividends were payable on January 16, 2006 to stockholders of record on January 6, 2006. The series E, F, J and K preferred unit quarterly distributions were payable on January 15, 2006. The series O preferred stock dividends are payable on April 15, 2006. The series D, H, I and N preferred unit quarterly distributions were paid on December 25, 2005. The following table sets forth the dividends and distributions paid or payable per share or unit for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:
 
     The anticipated size of our distributions, using only cash from operations, will not allow us to retire all of our debt as it comes due. Therefore, we intend to also repay maturing debt with net proceeds from future debt or equity financings, as well as property divestitures. However, we may not be able to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all. Our inability to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.
 
Capital Commitments
     In addition to recurring capital expenditures, which consist of building improvements and leasing costs incurred to renew or re-tenant space, during 2005, we initiated 30 new industrial development projects in North America, Europe and Asia with a total estimated investment of $522.4 million, aggregating an estimated 7.0 million square feet. As of December 31, 2005, we had 47 projects in our development pipeline representing a total estimated investment of $1.1 billion upon completion, of which two industrial projects with a total of 0.3 million square feet and an aggregate estimated investment of $24.5 million upon completion are held in unconsolidated joint ventures. In addition, we held one development project available for sale or contribution, representing a total estimated investment of $32.8 million upon completion. Of the total development pipeline, $681.4 million had been funded as of December 31, 2005 and an estimated $405.2 million was required to complete current and planned projects. We expect to fund these expenditures with cash from operations, borrowings under our credit facilities, debt or equity issuances, net proceeds from property divestitures and private capital from co-investment partners, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow.
Developments.
     During 2005, we acquired 41 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 6.9 million square feet for a total expected investment of $555.0 million, including two buildings that were acquired by two of our unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures. Additional acquisition activity in 2005 included the purchase of an approximate 43% unconsolidated equity interest in G.Accion, one of Mexico's largest real estate companies, for $46.1 million. We generally fund our acquisitions through private capital contributions, borrowings under our credit facility, cash, debt issuances and net proceeds from property divestitures.
Acquisitions.
     We have entered into operating ground leases on certain land parcels, primarily on-tarmac facilities and office space with remaining lease terms from one to 57 years. These operating lease payments are amortized ratably over the terms of the related leases. Future minimum rental payments required under non-cancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 2005 were as follows (dollars in thousands):
Lease Commitments.
     Through the operating partnership, we enter into co-investment joint ventures with institutional investors. These co-investment joint ventures are managed by our private capital group and provide us with an additional source of capital to fund acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. As of December 31, 2005, we had investments in co-investment joint ventures with a gross book value of $2.5 billion, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, and net equity investments in two unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures of $26.3 million. As of December 31, 2005, we may make additional capital contributions to current and planned co-investment joint ventures of up to $133.7 million (using the exchange rates at December 31, 2005). From time to time, we may raise additional equity commitments for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an open-ended consolidated co-investment joint venture formed in 2004 with institutional investors, which invest through a private real estate investment trust. This would increase our obligation to make additional capital commitments. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of this fund, we are obligated to contribute 20% of the total equity commitments to the fund until such time our total equity commitment is greater than $150.0 million, at which time, our obligation is reduced to 10% of the total equity commitments. We expect to fund these contributions with cash from operations, borrowings under our credit facilities, debt or equity issuances or net proceeds from property divestitures, which could adversely effect our cash flow.
Co-investment Joint Ventures.
     In December 2001, we formed a wholly-owned captive insurance company, Arcata National Insurance Ltd., which provides insurance coverage for all or a portion of losses below the deductible under our third-party policies. We capitalized Arcata National Insurance Ltd. in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. Arcata National Insurance Ltd. established annual premiums based on projections derived from the past loss experience of our properties. Annually, we engage an independent third party to perform an actuarial estimate of future projected claims, related deductibles and projected expenses necessary to fund associated risk management programs. Premiums paid to Arcata National Insurance Ltd. may be adjusted based on this estimate. Premiums paid to Arcata National Insurance Ltd. have a retrospective component, so that if expenses, including losses, deductibles and reserves, are less than premiums collected, the excess may be returned to the property owners (and, in turn, as appropriate, to the customers) and, conversely, subject to certain limitations, if expenses, including losses, deductibles and reserves,
Captive Insurance Company.
 
are greater than premiums collected, an additional premium will be charged. As with all recoverable expenses, differences between estimated and actual insurance premiums are recognized in the subsequent year. Through this structure, we believe that we have more comprehensive insurance coverage at an overall lower cost than would otherwise be available in the market.
     Unknown liabilities may include the following:
Potential Unknown Liabilities.
Overview of Contractual Obligations
     The following table summarizes our debt, interest and lease payments due by period as of December 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands):
     As of December 31, 2005, we had provided approximately $48.7 million in letters of credit, of which $38.4 million was provided under the operating partnership's $500.0 million unsecured credit facility. The letters of credit were required to be issued under certain ground lease provisions, bank guarantees and other commitments.
Standby Letters of Credit.
     As of December 31, 2005we had outstanding guarantees in the aggregate amount of $128.2 million in connection with certain acquisitions. As of December 31, 2005, we guaranteed $23.4 million and $2.3 million on outstanding loans on two of our consolidated joint ventures and one of our unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively.
Guarantees.
,
     As of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding performance and surety bonds in an aggregate amount of $0.9 million. These bonds were issued in connection with certain of its development projects and were posted to guarantee certain tax obligations and the construction of certain real property improvements and infrastructure, such as grading, sewers and streets. Performance and surety bonds are commonly required by public agencies from real estate developers. Performance and surety bonds are renewable and expire upon the payment of the taxes due or the completion of the improvements and infrastructure.
Performance and Surety Bonds.
     Upon the achievement of certain return thresholds and the occurrence of certain events, we may be obligated to make payments to certain of joint venture partners pursuant to the terms and provisions of their contractual agreements with us. From time to time in the normal course of our business, we enter into various contracts with third parties that may obligate us to make payments or perform other obligations upon the occurrence of certain events.
Promoted Interests and Other Contractual Obligations.
 
     We believe that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, we consider funds from operations, or FFO, as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), to be a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance. FFO is defined as net income, calculated in accordance with GAAP, less gains (or losses) from dispositions of real estate held for investment purposes and real estate-related depreciation, and adjustments to derive our pro rata share of FFO of consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. Further, we do not adjust FFO to eliminate the effects of non-recurring charges. We believe that FFO, as defined by NAREIT, is a meaningful supplemental measure of our operating performance because historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market and other conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. Thus, NAREIT created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for real estate investment trusts that excludes historical cost depreciation and amortization, among other items, from net income, as defined by GAAP. We believe that the use of FFO, combined with the required GAAP presentations, has been beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of real estate investment trusts among the investing public and making comparisons of operating results among such companies more meaningful. We consider FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing our comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate depreciation and amortization, FFO can help the investing public compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to other companies.
FFO.
     While FFO is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to those measures in evaluating our liquidity or operating performance. FFO also does not consider the costs associated with capital expenditures related to our real estate assets nor is FFO necessarily indicative of cash available to fund our future cash requirements. Further, our computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other real estate investment trusts that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently than we do.
     The following table reflects the calculation of FFO reconciled from net income for the years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
     We believe that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, we consider same store net operating income (SS NOI) to be a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance. For properties that are considered part of the same store pool, see Part I, Item 2: "Properties  Industrial Properties  Industrial Market Operating Statistics", Note 5, and "Operating and Leasing Statistics  Industrial Same Store Operating Statistics", Note 1. In deriving SS NOI, we define NOI as rental revenues (as calculated in accordance with GAAP), including reimbursements, less straight-line rents, property operating expenses and real estate taxes. We exclude straight-line rents in calculating SS NOI because we believe it provides a better measure of actual cash basis rental growth for a year-over-year comparison. In addition, we believe that SS NOI helps the investing public compare the operating performance of a company's real estate as compared to other companies.
SS NOI.
     While SS NOI is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to those measures in evaluating our liquidity or operating performance. SS NOI also does not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expenses, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact our results from operations. Further, our computation of SS NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating SS NOI.

 
Exhibit 99.3
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of AMB Property Corporation:
We have completed integrated audits of AMB Property Corporation's 2005 and 2004 consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 and an audit of its 2003 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.
Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing in Exhibit 99.3 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of AMB Property Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing in Exhibit 99.3 presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 150, , in 2003.
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity
Internal control over financial reporting
Also, in our opinion, management's assessment, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A in the 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 based on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in issued by the COSO. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management's assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP San Francisco, California March 9, 2006, except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to the effects of the discontinued operations as discussed in Note 17, as to which the date is June 5, 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
1. Organization and Formation of the Company
     AMB Property Corporation, a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), commenced operations as a fully integrated real estate company effective with the completion of its initial public offering on November 26, 1997. The Company elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code"), commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 1997, and believes its current organization and method of operation will enable it to maintain its status as a REIT. The Company, through its controlling interest in its subsidiary, AMB Property, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Operating Partnership"), is engaged in the acquisition, development and operation of industrial properties in key distribution markets throughout North America, Europe and Asia. The Company uses the terms "industrial properties" or "industrial buildings" to describe various types of industrial properties in its portfolio and uses these terms interchangeably with the following: logistics facilities, centers or warehouses; distribution facilities, centers or warehouses; High Throughput Distribution ("HTD") facilities; or any combination of these terms.
     Unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company" means AMB Property Corporation, the Operating Partnership and their other controlled subsidiaries.
     As of December 31, 2005, the Company owned an approximate 95.1% general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, excluding preferred units. The remaining approximate 4.9% common limited partnership interests are owned by non-affiliated investors and certain current and former directors and officers of the Company. Certain properties are owned through limited partnerships, limited liability companies and other entities. The ownership of such properties through such entities does not materially affect the Company's overall ownership interests in the properties. As the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, the Company has full, exclusive and complete responsibility and discretion in the day-to-day management and control of the Operating Partnership. Net operating results of the Operating Partnership are allocated after preferred unit distributions based on the respective partners' ownership interests.
     Through the Operating Partnership, the Company enters into co-investment joint ventures with institutional investors. These co-investment joint ventures provide the Company with an additional source of capital and income. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had investments in seven consolidated and two unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures.
     AMB Capital Partners, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("AMB Capital Partners"), provides real estate investment services to clients on a fee basis. Headlands Realty Corporation, a Maryland corporation, conducts a variety of businesses that include development projects available for sale or contribution to third parties and incremental income programs. IMD Holding Corporation, a Delaware corporation, also conducts a variety of businesses that include development projects available for sale or contribution to third parties. AMB Capital Partners, Headlands Realty Corporation and IMD Holding Corporation are wholly-owned direct or indirect subsidiaries of the Company and the Operating Partnership.
     Any references to the number of buildings, square footage, customers and occupancy stated in the financial statement footnotes are unaudited.
     As of December 31, 2005, we owned or had investments in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated joint ventures, or managed buildings, properties and development projects expected to total approximately 115.0 million rentable square feet (10.7 million square meters) and 1,057 buildings in 42 markets within eleven countries. The Company's strategy is to become a leading provider of distribution properties in supply-constrained submarkets located near key international passenger and cargo airports, highway systems and seaports in major metropolitan areas of North America, Europe and Asia. These submarkets are generally tied to global trade.
     Of the approximately 115.0 million rentable square feet as of December 31, 2005:
 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
     These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company, its wholly-owned qualified REIT and taxable REIT subsidiaries, the Operating Partnership and joint ventures, in which the Company has a controlling interest. Third-party equity interests in the Operating Partnership and joint ventures are reflected as minority interests in the consolidated financial statements. The Company also has non-controlling partnership interests in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures, which are accounted for under the equity method. All significant intercompany amounts have been eliminated.
Basis of Presentation.
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Use of Estimates.
     Certain items in the consolidated financial statements for prior periods have been reclassified to conform to current classifications.
Reclassifications.
     Investments in real estate and leasehold interests are stated at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost cannot be recovered, in which case, the carrying value of the property is reduced to estimated fair value. The Company also regularly reviews the impact of above or below-market leases, in-place leases and lease origination costs for all new acquisitions, and records an intangible asset or liability accordingly. Carrying values for financial reporting purposes are reviewed for impairment on a property-by-property basis quarterly and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. Impairment is recognized when estimated expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) are less than the carrying value of the property. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economics and market conditions and the availability of capital. If impairment analysis assumptions change, then an adjustment to the carrying value of the Company's long-lived assets could occur in the future period in which the assumptions change. To the extent that a property is impaired, the excess of the carrying amount of the property over its estimated fair value is charged to earnings. As a result of leasing activity and the economic environment, the Company re-evaluated the carrying value of its investments and recorded an impairment charge of $5.3 million in 2003 on certain of its investments. Also during the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a reduction of depreciation expense of $2.1 million to reflect the recovery, through the settlement of a lawsuit, of capital expenditures paid in prior years. The Company believes that there are no impairments of the carrying values of its investments in real estate as of December 31, 2005.
Investments in Real Estate.
     Depreciation and amortization are calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the real estate investments. Investments which are located on-tarmac, which is land owned by federal, state or local airport authorities, and subject to ground leases are depreciated over the lesser of 40 years or the contractual term of the underlying ground lease. The estimated lives and components of depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31 are as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
     The cost of buildings and improvements includes the purchase price of the property or interest in property, including legal fees and acquisition costs. Project costs directly associated with the development and construction of a real estate project, which include interest and property taxes, are capitalized as construction in progress. Capitalized interest related to construction projects for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $29.5 million, $18.7 million and $8.5 million, respectively.
     Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Maintenance expenditures include painting and repair costs. The Company expenses costs as incurred and does not accrue in advance of planned major maintenance activities. Significant renovations or betterments that extend the economic useful life of assets are capitalized and include parking lot, HVAC and roof replacement costs.
     Minority interests represent the limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership and interests held by certain third parties in several real estate joint ventures, which own properties aggregating approximately 41.7 million square feet, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Such investments are consolidated because the Company exercises significant control over major operating decisions such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers, asset management, investment activity and changes in financing.
Investments in Consolidated and Unconsolidated Joint Ventures.
     In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, ("SFAS 150"). This Statement establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. It requires that an issuer classify a financial instrument that is within its scope as a liability (or an asset in some circumstances). SFAS 150 was effective beginning in the third quarter of 2003, however, the FASB deferred the implementation of SFAS 150 as it applied to certain minority interests in finite-lived entities indefinitely. The disclosure requirements for certain minority interests in finite-lived entities still apply. The Company adopted the requirements of SFAS 150 in the third quarter of 2003, and, considering the aforementioned deferral, there was no impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, the minority interests associated with certain of the Company's consolidated joint ventures, that have finite lives under the terms of the partnership agreements represent mandatorily redeemable interests as defined in SFAS 150. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the aggregate book value of these minority interests in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet was $853.6 million and $828.6 million, respectively, and the Company believes that the aggregate settlement value of these interests was approximately $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. This amount is based on the estimated liquidation values of the assets and liabilities and the resulting proceeds that the Company would distribute to its joint venture partners upon dissolution, as required under the terms of the respective partnership agreements. Subsequent changes to the estimated fair values of the assets and liabilities of the consolidated joint ventures will affect the Company's estimate of the aggregate settlement value. The partnership agreements do not limit the amount that the minority partners would be entitled to in the event of liquidation of the assets and liabilities and dissolution of the respective partnerships.
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity
     The Company holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The Company has three joint venture investments that meet the variable interest entity criteria under FASB Interpretation No. 46R, Therefore, the Company determines consolidation based on standards set forth in EITF 96-16, and Statement of Position 78-9, Based on the guidance set forth in these pronouncements, the Company consolidates certain joint venture investments because it exercises significant control over major operating decisions, such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers, asset
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities "FIN 46".
Investor's Accounting for an Investee When the Investor Has a Majority of the Voting Interest but the Minority Shareholder or Shareholders Have Certain Approval or Veto Rights,
Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures and FIN 46.
 
management, investment activity and changes in financing. For joint ventures where the Company does not exercise significant control over major operating and management decisions, but where it has significant influence, or the Company is not the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity it uses the equity method of accounting and does not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes.
     In June 2005, the Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") issued EITF 04-5, Under this consensus, a sole general partner is presumed to control a limited partnership (or similar entity) and should consolidate that entity unless the limited partners possess kick-out rights or other substantive participating rights as described in EITF 96-16, As of June 29, 2005, this consensus was effective immediately for all new or modified agreements, and effective beginning in the first reporting period that ends after December 15, 2005 for all existing agreements. The Company adopted the consolidation requirements of this consensus in the third quarter 2005 for all new or modified agreements and will adopt the consensus for existing agreements in the first quarter of 2006. There was not a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows upon the adoption of the consolidation requirements of this consensus for all new or modified agreements. The Company does not believe that there will be a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows, upon adopting the consensus for existing agreements.
Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights.
Investor's Accounting for an Investee When the Investor has a Majority of the Voting Interest but the Minority Shareholder or Shareholders Have Certain Approval or Veto rights.
     Cash and cash equivalents include cash held in financial institutions and other highly liquid short-term investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Cash and Cash Equivalents.
     Restricted cash includes cash held in escrow in connection with property purchases, Section 1031 exchange accounts and debt or real estate tax payments.
Restricted Cash.
     Through a wholly-owned subsidiary, the Company holds a mortgage loan receivable of $12.8 million on AMB Pier One, LLC, an unconsolidated joint venture. The Company also holds a loan receivable of $8.8 million on G. Accion, an unconsolidated investment. At December 31, 2004, the Company also held a shortterm mortgage on a prior year property sale totaling $0.8 million, which was repaid during 2005. The book value of the mortgages approximates fair value.
Mortgages and Loans Receivable.
     Accounts receivable includes all current accounts receivable, net of allowances, other accruals and deferred rent receivable of $66.7 million and $63.2 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company regularly reviews the credit worthiness of its customers and adjusts its allowance for doubtful accounts, straight-line rent receivable balance and tenant improvement and leasing costs amortization accordingly.
Accounts Receivable.
     Other real estate companies compete with the Company in its real estate markets. This results in competition for customers to occupy space. The existence of competing properties could have a material impact on the Company's ability to lease space and on the amount of rent received. As of December 31, 2005, the Company does not have any material concentration of credit risk due to the diversification of its tenants.
Concentration of Credit Risk.
     Costs incurred in connection with financings are capitalized and amortized to interest expense using the effective-interest method over the term of the related loan. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, deferred financing costs were $25.0 million and $28.3 million, respectively, net of accumulated amortization.
Deferred Financing Costs.
     SFAS No. 133, provides comprehensive guidelines for the recognition and measurement of derivatives and hedging activities and, specifically, requires all derivatives to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability, with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. For revenues or expenses denominated in nonfunctional currencies, the Company may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. The Company's derivative financial instruments in effect at December 31, 2005 were two interest rate swaps hedging cash flows of our variable rate borrowings based on Euribor (Europe) and Japanese TIBOR (Japan) and three put options hedging against adverse foreign fluctuations of the Mexican Peso and the Euro against the U.S. dollar. Adjustments to the fair value of these instruments for the year ended December 31, 2005 were immaterial. The Company also held two interest rate swaps hedging cash flows of our variable rate borrowings based on Euribor (Europe) and Japanese TIBOR (Japan). Adjustments to the fair value of these instruments for the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted in a gain of $0.3 million. This gain is included in accounts payable and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and accumulated other comprehensive loss in the consolidated statements of stockholders' equity.
Financial Instruments.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and for Hedging Activities,
 
     The Company's debt includes both fixed and variable rate secured debt, unsecured fixed rate debt, unsecured variable rate debt and credit facilities. Based on borrowing rates available to the Company at December 31, 2005, the book value and the estimated fair value of the total debt (both secured and unsecured) was $3.4 billion. The carrying value of the variable rate debt approximates fair value.
Debt.
     Debt premiums represent the excess of the fair value of debt over the principal value of debt assumed in connection with the Company's initial public offering and subsequent property acquisitions. The debt premiums are being amortized as an offset to interest expense over the term of the related debt instrument using the effective-interest method. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the net unamortized debt premium was $12.0 million and $10.8 million, respectively, and are included as a component of secured debt on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
Debt Premiums.
     The Company, as a lessor, retains substantially all of the benefits and risks of ownership of the properties and accounts for its leases as operating leases. Rental income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases. Reimbursements from customers for real estate taxes and other recoverable operating expenses are recognized as revenue in the period the applicable expenses are incurred. The Company also records lease termination fees when a customer terminates its lease by executing a definitive termination agreement with the Company, vacates the premises and the payment of the termination fee is not subject to any conditions that must be met before the fee is due to the Company. In addition, the Company nets its allowance for doubtful accounts against rental income for financial reporting purposes. Such amounts totaled $3.2 million, $1.8 million and $5.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Rental Revenues and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.
     Private capital income consists primarily of acquisition and development fees, asset management fees and priority distributions earned by AMB Capital Partners from joint ventures and clients. Private capital income also includes promoted interests and incentive distributions from the Operating Partnership's co-investment joint ventures.
Private Capital Income.
     In 2002, the Company adopted the expense recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, The Company values stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and recognizes this value as an expense over the vesting periods. Under this standard, recognition of expense for stock options is applied to all options granted after the beginning of the year of adoption. Under SFAS No. 123, related stock option expense was $4.8 million, $4.0 million and $2.4 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Additionally, the Company awards restricted stock and recognizes this value as an expense over the vesting periods. Related restricted stock compensation expense was $7.5 million, $6.4 million and $5.7 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The expense is included in general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123 prospectively and the 2003 expense relates only to stock options granted in 2002 and subsequent periods.
Stock-Based Compensation Expense.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.
     Had compensation cost for the Company's stock-based compensation plans been determined based on the fair value at the grant dates for awards prior to 2002 consistent with the method of SFAS No. 123, the Company's pro forma net income available to common stockholders would have been (dollars in thousands):
     In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, Share-Based Payment ("SFAS 123R"). This Statement is a revision of FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. This Statement establishes standards for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the entity's equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in share-based payment transactions. SFAS 123R is effective for public companies for interim and annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued a release that amends the compliance dates for SFAS 123R. Under the SEC's new rule, the Company is required to apply SFAS 123R as of January 1, 2006. The Company adopted SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006, using the modified-prospective method. The adoption of SFAS 123R required the unamortized portion of any options issued prior to 2002 to be amortized over the
Share-Based Payment.
 
remaining life of those options. The adoption of SFAS 123R did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows because all options issued prior to 2002 had been fully amortized as of December 31, 2005.
     Interest and other income consists primarily of interest income from mortgages receivable and on cash and cash equivalents.
Interest and Other Income.
     When the Company disposes of its real estate entities' interests, gains reported from the sale of these interests represent either: (i) the sale of partial interests in consolidated co-investment joint ventures to third-party investors for cash or (ii) the sale of partial interests in properties to unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures with third-party investors for cash.
Gains from Dispositions of Real Estate Interests.
     Gains and losses are recognized using the full accrual method. Gains related to transactions which do not meet the requirements of the full accrual method of accounting are deferred and recognized when the full accrual method of accounting criteria are met.
Gains from Dispositions of Real Estate.
     The Company reported real estate dispositions as discontinued operations separately as prescribed under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, The Company separately reports as discontinued operations the historical operating results attributable to operating properties sold and held for disposition and the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the properties. The consolidated statements of operations for prior periods are also adjusted to conform with this classification. There is no impact on the Company's previously reported consolidated financial position, net income or cash flows.
Discontinued Operations.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.
     The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the Company's subsidiaries operating in the United States and Mexico. The functional currency for the Company's subsidiaries operating outside North America is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity is located, mitigating the effect of currency exchange gains and losses. The Company's subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The Company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, gains (losses) resulting from the translation were ($1.8) million, ($0.4) million and $0.7 million, respectively. These gains (losses) are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders' equity.
International Operations.
     The Company's international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. In these instances, non-monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. Gains (losses) from remeasurement were $0.6 million, $0.5 million and ($0.1) million for the years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These gains (losses) are included in the consolidated statements of operations.
     The Company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entity's functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. These gains and losses have been immaterial over the past three years.
     In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, ("SFAS 153"). SFAS 153 amends APB No. 29 to eliminate the exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and replaces it with a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. SFAS 153 is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company does not believe that the adoption of SFAS 153 will have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
New Accounting Pronouncements.
Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assetsan amendment of APB Opinion No. 29
     In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligationsan interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 ("FIN 47"). FIN 47 clarifies that the term conditional asset retirement obligation as used in FASB Statement No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control
 
of the entity. The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing and (or) method of settlement. Thus, the timing and (or) method of settlement may be conditional on a future event. Accordingly, an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 is effective for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005. The adoption of FIN 47 did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
3. Real Estate Acquisition and Development Activity
     During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company acquired 39 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 6.4 million square feet for a total expected investment of $522.3 million. The Company also acquired two industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 0.5 million square feet for a total expected investment of $32.7 million, through two of its unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures. During 2004, the Company acquired 64 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 7.6 million square feet for a total expected investment of $695.2 million.
     During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company initiated 30 new industrial development projects in North America, Europe and Asia with a total expected investment of $522.4 million, aggregating approximately 7.0 million square feet. During 2004, the Company initiated 18 new industrial development projects in North America and Asia with a total expected investment of $604.2 million, aggregating approximately 5.8 million square feet.
     During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company completed and placed in operations eleven industrial buildings with a total investment of $137.9 million, aggregating approximately 2.5 million square feet. During 2004, the Company completed and placed in operations seven industrial buildings with a total investment of $88.9 million, aggregating approximately 2.1 million square feet.
     As of December 31, 2005, the Company had in its development pipeline 47 industrial projects, which will total approximately 11.9 million square feet and will have an aggregate estimated investment of $1.1 billion upon completion, of which two industrial projects with a total of 0.3 million square feet and an aggregate estimated investment of $24.5 million upon completion are held in unconsolidated joint ventures. In addition, one development project is available for sale or contribution, which totals approximately 0.6 million square feet and has an aggregate estimated investment of $32.8 million upon completion. As of December 31, 2005, the Company and its Development Alliance Partners had funded an aggregate of $681.4 million and needed to fund an estimated additional $405.2 million in order to complete current and planned projects. The Company's development pipeline currently includes projects expected to be completed through the first quarter of 2008. Significant land acquisitions for the year ended December 31, 2005 included the purchase of 341 acres of land for industrial warehouse developments in various North American, Europe and Asia markets for $193.9 million.
4. Gains from Dispositions of Real Estate Interests, Development Sales and Discontinued Operations
     On June 30, 2005, the Company formed AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. a joint venture with 13 institutional investors, in which the Company retained an approximate 20% interest. The 13 institutional investors have committed 49.5 billion Yen ($420.4 million U.S. dollars, using the exchange rate at December 31, 2005) for an approximate 80% equity interest. The Company contributed $106.9 million (using exchange rate in effect at contribution) in operating properties, consisting of six industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 0.9 million square feet, to this fund. The Company recognized a gain of $17.8 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third-party investors for cash.
Gains from Dispositions of Real Estate Interests.
     On December 31, 2004, the Company formed AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, a joint venture with Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte Ltd, a real estate investment subsidiary of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, in which the Company retained a 20% interest. During 2005, the Company recognized a gain of $1.3 million from disposition of real estate interests, representing the additional value received from the contribution of properties to AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC.
     On February 19, 2003, the Company contributed $94.0 million in operating properties, consisting of 24 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 2.4 million square feet, to its newly formed unconsolidated joint venture, Industrial Fund I, LLC. The Company recognized a gain of $7.4 million on the contribution, representing the partial sale of the Company's interests in the contributed properties acquired by the third-party investors for cash.
 
     During 2005, the Company sold five land parcels and five development projects, aggregating approximately 0.9 million square feet for an aggregate price of $155.2 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $45.1 million. In addition, during 2005, the Company received final proceeds of $7.8 million from a land sale that occurred in 2004. During 2005, The Company also contributed one completed development project into an unconsolidated joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, and recognized an after-tax gain of $1.9 million representing the partial sale of the Company's interests in the contributed properties acquired by the third-party co-investors for cash.
Development Sales and Contributions.
     During 2004, the Company sold seven land parcels and six development projects as part of our development-for-sale program, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $40.4 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $6.5 million. During 2004, the Company also contributed one completed development project into a newly-formed unconsolidated joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, and recognized an after-tax gain of $2.0 million representing the partial sale of its interest in the contributed property acquired by the third-party co-investor for cash.
     During 2003, the Company sold seven development-for-sale projects, aggregating approximately 0.5 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $74.8 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $14.4 million.
     The Company reported its property divestitures as discontinued operations separately as prescribed under the provisions of SFAS No. 144Beginning in 2002, SFAS No. 144 requires the Company to separately report as discontinued operations the historical operating results attributable to operating properties sold and held for disposition and the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the properties. Although the application of SFAS No. 144 may affect the presentation of the Company's results of operations for the periods that it has already reported in filings with the SEC, there will be no effect on its previously reported financial position, net income or cash flows.
Discontinued Operations.
.
     During 2005, the Company divested itself of 142 industrial buildings and one retail center, aggregating approximately 9.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $926.6 million, with a resulting net gain of $113.6 million. Included in these divestitures is the sale of the assets of AMB Alliance Fund I for $618.5 million. The multi-investor fund owned 100 buildings totaling approximately 5.8 million square feet. The Company received cash and a distribution of an on-tarmac property, AMB DFW Air Cargo Center I, in exchange for its 21% interest in the fund. The Company also received a net incentive distribution of approximately $26.4 million in cash which is classified under private capital income on the consolidated statement of operations.
     During 2004, the Company divested itself of 21 industrial buildings, two retail centers and one office building, aggregating approximately 3.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $200.3 million, with a resulting net gain of $42.0 million.
     During 2003, the Company divested itself of 24 industrial buildings and two retail centers, aggregating approximately 2.8 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $272.3 million, with a resulting net gain of $42.9 million.
     As of December 31, 2005, the Company held for contribution to a co-investment joint venture one industrial building with an aggregate net book value of $32.8 million, which, when contributed to the joint venture, will reduce the Company's current ownership interest from approximately 98% to an expected range of 20-50%. This asset is not being held for divestiture under SFAS No. 144.
Properties Held for Contribution.
     As of December 31, 2005, the Company had decided to divest itself of five industrial buildings and one undeveloped land parcel with a net book value of $17.9 million. The properties either are not in the Company's core markets or do not meet its current strategic objectives. The divestitures of the properties are subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and other customary conditions. Properties held for divestiture are stated at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell. Depreciation on properties held for divestiture is discontinued at the time the asset is held for divestiture.
Properties Held for Divestiture.
     The following summarizes the condensed results of operations of the properties held for divestiture and sold under SFAS No. 144 for the years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands):
 
     As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, assets and liabilities attributable to properties held for divestiture under the provisions of SFAS No. 144 consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):
5. Mortgage and Loan Receivables
     Through a wholly-owned subsidiary, the Company holds a mortgage loan receivable on AMB Pier One, LLC, an unconsolidated joint venture. The Company also holds a loan receivable from G. Accion, an unconsolidated investment. The Company also had a short-term mortgage on a prior year property sale which was repaid during 2005. The Company's mortgage and loan receivables at December 31, 2005 and 2004 consisted of the following:
 
6. Debt
     As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, debt consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):
     Secured debt generally requires monthly principal and interest payments. The secured debt is secured by deeds of trust or mortgages on certain properties, some of which are cross-collateralized by multiple properties, and is generally non-recourse. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total gross investment book value of those properties securing the debt was $3.6 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively, including $2.5 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively, in consolidated joint ventures. As of December 31, 2005, $1.6 billion of the secured debt obligations bear interest at fixed rates with a weighted average interest rate of 6.3% while the remaining $291.7 million bear interest at variable rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 2.1%).
     As of December 31, 2005, the Operating Partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $975.0 million in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.2% and had an average term of 5.2 years. These unsecured senior debt securities include $300.0 million in notes issued in June 1998, $250.0 million of medium-term notes, which were issued under the Operating Partnership's 2000 medium-term note program, $325.0 million of medium-term notes, which were issued under the Operating Partnership's 2002 medium-term note program, and approximately $112.5 million of 5.094% Notes Due 2015, which were issued to Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America on July 11, 2005 in a private placement, in exchange for the cancellation of $100 million of notes that were issued in June 1998, resulting in a discount of approximately $12.5 million. The unsecured senior debt securities are subject to various covenants. Management believes that the Company and the Operating Partnership were in compliance with their financial covenants as of December 31, 2005.
     On June 1, 2004, the Operating Partnership completed the early renewal of its senior unsecured revolving line of credit in the amount of $500.0 million. The Company remains a guarantor of the Operating Partnership's obligations under the credit facility. The three-year credit facility includes a multi-currency component under which up to $250.0 million can be drawn in Yen, Euros or British Pounds Sterling. The line, which matures in June 2007 and carries a one-year extension option, can be increased up to $700.0 million upon certain conditions, and replaces the Operating Partnership's previous $500.0 million credit facility that was to mature in December 2005. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, based on the Operating Partnership's long-term debt rating, which is 60 basis points with an annual facility fee of 20 basis points, based on the current credit rating of the Operating Partnership's long-term debt. The Operating Partnership uses its unsecured credit facility principally for acquisitions, funding development activity and general working capital requirements. The total amount available under the credit facility fluctuates based upon the borrowing base, as defined in the agreement governing the credit facility, which is generally based upon the value of the Company's unencumbered properties. As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance on the credit facility was $216.8 million and the remaining amount available was $244.8 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $38.4 million (excluding the additional $200.0 million of potential additional capacity). The outstanding balance included borrowings denominated in Euros and Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2005, equaled approximately $173.1 million and $43.7 million in U.S. dollars, respectively. The revolving credit facility contains affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations
 
on mergers or consolidations. Management believes that the Company and the Operating Partnership were in compliance with their financial covenants under this revolving line of credit agreement at December 31, 2005.
     On June 29, 2004, AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, entered into an unsecured revolving credit agreement providing for loans or letters of credit. On December 8, 2005, the unsecured revolving credit agreement was amended to increase the maximum principal amount outstanding at any time up to 35.0 billion Yen, which using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2005, equaled approximately $297.2 million U.S. dollars and can be increased up to 40.0 billion Yen upon certain conditions. The Company, along with the Operating Partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K. under the revolving credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the Operating Partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest, and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the revolving credit agreement. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and for other real estate purposes in Japan. Generally, borrowers under the revolving credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the revolving credit facility with certain real estate assets or equity in entities holding such real estate assets. The revolving credit facility matures in June 2007 and has a one-year extension option, which is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.25% of the outstanding commitments under the facility at that time. The rate on the borrowings is generally TIBOR plus a margin, which is based on the current credit rating of the Operating Partnership's long-term debt and is currently 60 basis points. In addition, there is an annual facility fee, payable in quarterly amounts, which is based on the credit rating of the Operating Partnership's long-term debt, and is currently 20 basis points of the outstanding commitments under the facility. As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2005, was $205.8 million in U.S. dollars. The revolving credit facility contains affirmative covenants, including financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. Management believes that the Company and the Operating Partnership were in compliance with their financial covenants under this revolving credit agreement at December 31, 2005.
     On November 24, 2004, AMB Tokai TMK, a Japanese subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, entered into a secured multi-advance project financing, providing for loans in a maximum principal amount outstanding at any time of up to 20.0 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2005, equaled approximately $169.9 million U.S. dollars. The financing agreement is among AMB Tokai TMK, the Company, the Operating Partnership, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation ("Sumitomo") and a syndicate of banks. The Company and the Operating Partnership jointly and severally guarantee AMB Tokai TMK's obligations under the financing agreement, pursuant to a guaranty of payment executed in connection with the project financing. The financing is secured by a mortgage on certain real property located in Tokai, Tokyo, Japan, and matures on October 31, 2006 with a one-year extension option. The rate on the borrowings is generally TIBOR plus a margin, which is based on the credit rating of the Operating Partnership's long-term debt and is currently 60 basis points per annum, except that AMB Tokai TMK has purchased from Sumitomo an interest rate swap, which has fixed the interest rate payable on a principal amount equal to 13.0 billion Yen at 1.32% per annum plus the applicable margin. In addition, there is an annual commitment fee based on unused commitments, payable quarterly, which is based on the credit rating of the Operating Partnership's long-term debt, and is currently 20 basis points of the amount of unused commitments. The financing agreement contains affirmative covenants, including financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. Management believes the Company and the Operating Partnership were in compliance with their financial covenants under this financing agreement as of December 31, 2005. In addition, Sumitomo, AMB Tokai TMK and the Operating Partnership signed a commitment letter on November 24, 2004, pursuant to which Sumitomo committed to purchase bonds that may be issued by AMB Tokai TMK in an amount between 10.0 billion Yen and 15.0 billion Yen (such amount to be determined by AMB Tokai TMK). The bonds would be secured by the AMB Ohta Distribution Center and would generally accrue interest at a rate of TIBOR plus 1.10% per annum; because the swap purchased by AMB Tokai TMK from Sumitomo is coterminous with the maturity date of the proposed bonds, AMB Tokai TMK will have fixed the interest rate payable on, in general, a principal amount equal to 13.0 billion Yen at 2.42% per annum. The bonds, if issued, would mature on October 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance on this financing agreement was 19.5 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2005, equaled approximately $165.6 million U.S. dollars and is accounted for as wholly-owned secured debt.
     On February 16, 2006, the Operating Partnership and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries entered into a third amended and restated credit agreement for a $250 million unsecured multi-currency revolving credit facility with a maturity date of February 2010, that replaced the then-existing $100 million unsecured multi-currency revolving credit facility that was to mature in June 2008. As of December 31, 2005, we had an additional outstanding balance of $67.5 million under the then-existing facility.
     As of December 31, 2005, the scheduled maturities of the Company's total debt, excluding unamortized debt premiums, were as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
7. Leasing Activity
     Future minimum base rental income due under non-cancelable leases with customers in effect as of December 31, 2005 was as follows (dollars in thousands):
     The schedule does not reflect future rental revenues from the renewal or replacement of existing leases and excludes property operating expense reimbursements. In addition to minimum rental payments, certain customers pay reimbursements for their pro rata share of specified operating expenses, which amounted to $144.0 million, $134.1 million and $103.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These amounts are included as rental revenue and operating expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Some leases contain options to renew.
8. Income Taxes
     The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code, commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 1997. To qualify as a REIT, the Company must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement that it currently distribute at least 90% of its taxable income to its stockholders. It is management's current intention to adhere to these requirements and maintain the Company's REIT status. As a REIT, the Company generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income tax on net income it distributes currently to its stockholders. As such, no provision for federal income taxes has been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be subject to federal income taxes at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may be ineligible to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the Company may be subject to certain state, local taxes on its income and excise taxes on its undistributed taxable income. The Company is required to pay federal and state income tax on its net taxable income, if any, from the activities conducted by the Company's taxable REIT subsidiaries. Where the Company operates in foreign countries that do not recognize REITs under their respective tax laws, the Company recognizes income taxes, as necessary.
     The following is a reconciliation of net income available to common stockholders to taxable income available to common stockholders for the years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
     For income tax purposes, distributions paid to common stockholders consist of ordinary income, capital gains, non-taxable return of capital or a combination thereof. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company elected to distribute all of its taxable capital gain. The taxability of the Company's distributions to common stockholders is summarized below:
9. Minority Interests in Consolidated Joint Ventures and Preferred Units
     Minority interests in the Company represent the limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership, limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P. and interests held by certain third parties in several real estate joint ventures, aggregating approximately 41.7 million square feet, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Such investments are consolidated because the Company exercises significant rights over major operating decisions such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers, asset management, investment activity and changes in financing. These joint venture investments do not meet the variable interest entity criteria under FASB Interpretation No. 46R,
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.
     Through the Operating Partnership, the Company enters into co-investment joint ventures with institutional investors. The Company's co-investment joint ventures are engaged in the acquisition, ownership, operation, management and, in some cases, the renovation, expansion and development of industrial buildings in target markets in North America.
     The Company's consolidated co-investment joint ventures' total investment and property debt in properties at December 31, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in thousands) were:
 
 
     The following table details the minority interest liability as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
     The following table details the minority interests' share of income, including minority interests' share of development profits, but excluding minority interests' share of discontinued operations for the years ending December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (dollars in thousands):
 
10. Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures
     The Company's investment in unconsolidated joint ventures at December 31, 2005 and 2004 totaled $118.7 million and $55.2 million, respectively. The Company's exposure to losses associated with its unconsolidated joint ventures is limited to its carrying value in these investments and a guarantee of $2.3 million on an outstanding loan on one if its unconsolidated joint ventures.
The Company's unconsolidated joint ventures' net equity investments at December 31, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in thousands) were:
 
 
     On December 31, 2004, the Company formed AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, a joint venture with Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte Ltd, a real estate investment subsidiary of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, in which the Company retained a 20% interest. During 2005, the Company recognized a gain of $1.3 million from disposition of real estate interests, representing the additional value received from the contribution of properties to AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC. During 2005, the Company recognized development profits of $1.7 million from the contribution to AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC of one industrial building for $23.6 million aggregating approximately 0.4 million square feet.
     On June 30, 2005, the Company formed AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. a joint venture with 13 institutional investors, in which the Company retained an approximate 20% interest. The 13 institutional investors have committed 49.5 billion Yen ($420.4 million U.S. dollars, using the exchange rate at December 31, 2005) for an approximate 80% equity interest. The Company contributed $106.9 million (using exchange rate in effect at contribution) in operating properties, consisting of six industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 0.9 million square feet, to this fund. The Company recognized a gain of $17.8 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third-party investors for cash.
     Under the agreements governing the joint ventures, the Company and the other parties to the joint venture may be required to make additional capital contributions and, subject to certain limitations, the joint ventures may incur additional debt.
     The Company also has a 0.1% unconsolidated equity interest (with an approximate 33% economic interest) in AMB Pier One, LLC, a joint venture related to the 2000 redevelopment of the pier which houses the Company's office space in San Francisco. The investment is not consolidated because the Company does not exercise control over major operating decisions such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers, investment activity and changes in financing. The Company has an option to purchase the remaining equity interest beginning January 1, 2007 and expiring December 31, 2009, based on the fair market value as stipulated in the operating agreement. As of December 31, 2005, the Company also had an approximate 39.0% unconsolidated equity interest in G.Accion S.A. de C.V. ("G.Accion"), a Mexican real estate company. G.Accion provides management and development services for industrial, retail, residential and office properties in Mexico.
11. Stockholders' Equity
     Holders of common limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and class B common limited partnership units of AMB Property II, L.P. have the right, commencing generally on or after the first anniversary of the holder becoming a limited partner of the Operating Partnership or AMB Property II, L.P., as applicable (or such other date agreed to by the Operating Partnership or AMB Property II, L.P. and the applicable unit holders), to require the Operating Partnership or AMB Property II, L.P., as applicable, to redeem part or all of their common units or class B common limited partnership units, as applicable, for cash (based upon the fair market value, as defined in the applicable partnership agreement, of an equivalent number of shares of common stock of the Company at the time of redemption) or the Operating Partnership or AMB Property II, L.P. may, in its respective sole and absolute discretion (subject to the limits on ownership and transfer of common stock set forth in the Company's charter), elect to have the Company exchange those common units or class B common limited partnership units, as applicable, for shares of the Company's common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to adjustment in the event of stock splits, stock dividends, issuance of certain rights, certain extraordinary distributions and similar events. With each redemption or exchange of the Operating Partnership's common units, the Company's percentage ownership in the Operating Partnership will increase. Common limited partners and class B common limited partners may exercise this redemption right from time to time, in whole or in part, subject to certain limitations. During 2005, the Operating Partnership redeemed 349,579 of its common limited partnership units for an equivalent number of shares of the Company's common stock.
     On December 13, 2005, we issued and sold 3,000,000 shares of 7.00% Series O Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.75 per annum. The series O preferred stock is redeemable by us on or after December 13, 2010, subject to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the redemption date. We contributed the net proceeds of $72.3 million to the operating partnership, and in exchange, the operating partnership issued to us 3,000,000 7.00% Series O Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.
     On June 23, 2003, the Company issued and sold 2,000,000 shares of 6.5% Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock for $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.625 per annum. The series L preferred stock is redeemable by the Company on or after June 23, 2008, subject to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the redemption date. The Company contributed the net proceeds of $48.0 million to the Operating Partnership, and in exchange, the Operating
 
Partnership issued to the Company 2,000,000 6.5% Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units. The Operating Partnership used the proceeds, in addition to proceeds previously contributed to the Operating Partnership from other equity issuances, to redeem all 3,995,800 shares of its 8.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units from the Company on July 28, 2003. The Company, in turn, used those proceeds to redeem all 3,995,800 shares of its 8.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock for $100.2 million, including accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date.
     On November 25, 2003, the Company issued and sold 2,300,000 shares of 6.75% Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock for $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.6875 per annum. The series M preferred stock is redeemable by the Company on or after November 25, 2008, subject to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the redemption date. The Company contributed the net proceeds of $55.4 million to the Operating Partnership, and in exchange, the Operating Partnership issued to the Company 2,300,000 6.75% Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.
     On September 24, 2004, AMB Property II, L.P., a partnership in which Texas AMB I, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and the Company's indirect subsidiary, owns an approximate 1.0% general partnership interest and the Operating Partnership owns an approximate 99% common limited partnership interest, issued 729,582 5.0% Series N Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units at a price of $50.00 per unit. The series N preferred units were issued to Robert Pattillo Properties, Inc. in exchange for the contribution of certain parcels of land that are located in multiple markets to AMB Property II, L.P. Effective January 27, 2006, Robert Pattillo Properties, Inc. exercised its rights under its Put Agreement, dated September 24, 2004, with the Operating Partnership, and sold all of its series N preferred units to the Operating Partnership at a price equal to $50.00 per unit, plus all accrued and unpaid distributions to the date of such sale. Also on January 27, 2006, AMB Property II, L.P. repurchased all of the series N preferred units from the Operating Partnership at a price equal to $50.00 per unit, plus all accrued and unpaid distributions to the date of such sale and cancelled all of the outstanding series N preferred units as of such date.
     The Company has authorized 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock for issuance, of which the following series were designated as of December 31, 2005: 1,595,337 shares of series D cumulative redeemable preferred; 220,440 shares of series E cumulative redeemable preferred; 267,439 shares of series F cumulative redeemable preferred, of which 201,139 are outstanding; 840,000 shares of series H cumulative redeemable preferred; 510,000 shares of series I cumulative redeemable preferred; 800,000 shares of series J cumulative redeemable preferred; 800,000 shares of series K cumulative redeemable preferred; 2,300,000 shares of series L cumulative redeemable preferred, of which 2,000,000 are outstanding; 2,300,000 shares of series M cumulative redeemable preferred, all of which are outstanding; and 3,000,000 shares of series O cumulative redeemable preferred, all of which are outstanding.
     The following table sets forth the dividends and distributions paid per share or unit:
 
 
12. Stock Incentive Plan, 401(k) Plan and Deferred Compensation Plan
     The Company has Stock Option and Incentive Plans ("Stock Incentive Plans") for the purpose of attracting and retaining eligible officers, directors and employees. The Company has reserved for issuance 18,950,000 shares of common stock under its Stock Incentive Plans. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had 9,148,437 non-qualified options outstanding granted to certain directors, officers and employees. Each option is exchangeable for one share of the Company's common stock. Each option's exercise price is equal to the Company's market price on the date of grant. The options have an original ten-year term and generally vest pro rata in annual installments over a three to five-year period from the date of grant.
Stock Incentive Plan.
     In 2002, the Company adopted the expense recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, . The Company values stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and recognizes this value as an expense over the vesting periods. Under this standard, recognition of expense for stock options is applied to all options granted after the beginning of the year of adoption. In accordance with SFAS No. 123, the Company will recognize the associated expense over the three to five-year vesting periods. Under SFAS No. 123, related stock option expense was $4.8 million, $4.0 million and $2.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Additionally, the Company awards restricted stock and recognizes this value as an expense over the vesting periods. Related restricted stock compensation expense was $7.5 million, $6.4 million and $5.7 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The expense is included in general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The adoption of SFAS No. 123 is prospective and the 2003 expense relates only to stock options granted in 2002 and subsequent periods. Prior to January 1, 2002, the Company applied APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and related interpretations in accounting for its Stock Incentive Plan. Opinion 25 measures compensation cost using the intrinsic value based method of accounting. Under this method, compensation cost is the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the stock at the date of grant over the amount an employee must pay to acquire the stock. Accordingly, no compensation cost had been recognized for the Company's Stock Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2001.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
     As permitted by SFAS No. 148, , the Company has changed its method of accounting for stock options beginning January 1, 2002. The Company has not retroactively changed its method of accounting for stock options but has provided additional required disclosures. Had compensation cost for the Company's stock-based compensation plans been determined based on the fair value at the grant dates for awards prior to 2002 consistent with the method of SFAS No. 123, the Company's pro forma net income available to common stockholders would have been reduced by $0.2 million, $1.1 million and $1.6 million and pro forma basic and diluted earnings per share would have been reduced to $2.98 and $2.85; $1.43 and $1.37; and $1.42 and $1.39, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosure  An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123
     The fair value of each option grant was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions used for grants in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively: dividend yields of 4.5%, 4.8% and 6.1%; expected volatility of 17.5%, 18.6% and 17.7%; risk-free interest rates of 3.8%, 3.6% and 3.4%; and expected lives of seven years for each year. Following is a summary of the option activity for the years ended December 31 (options in thousands):
 
     The following table summarizes additional information concerning outstanding and exercisable stock options at December 31, 2005 (options in thousands):
     In 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company issued 129,935, 227,609 and 272,609 restricted shares, respectively, to certain officers of the Company as part of the performance pay program and in connection with employment with the Company. As of December 31, 2005, 154,616 shares of restricted stock have been forfeited. The 547,524 outstanding restricted shares are subject to repurchase rights, which generally lapse over a period from three to five years.
     In November 1997, the Company established a Section 401(k) Savings/Retirement Plan (the "401(k) Plan"), which is a continuation of the 401(k) Plan of the predecessor, to cover eligible employees of the Company and any designated affiliates. During 2005 and 2004, the 401(k) Plan permitted eligible employees of the Company to defer up to 20% of their annual compensation, subject to certain limitations imposed by the Code. The employees' elective deferrals are immediately vested and non-forfeitable upon contribution to the 401(k) Plan. During 2004, the Company matched employee contributions to the 401(k) Plan in an amount equal to 50% of the first 5.5% of annual compensation deferred by each employee. During 2005, the Company matched employee contributions to the 401(k) Plan in an amount equal to 50% of the first 6.0% of annual compensation deferred by each employee. The Company may also make discretionary contributions to the 401(k) Plan. In 2005 and 2004, the Company paid $0.65 million and $0.5 million, respectively, for its 401(k) match. No discretionary contributions were made by the Company to the 401(k) Plan in 2005, 2004 and 2003.
4
01(k)
Plan.
     . The Company has established a non-qualified deferred compensation plan for officers and directors of the Company and certain of its affiliates, which enables participants to defer income up to 100% of annual base pay, up to 100% of annual bonuses, up to 100% of their meeting fees and/or committee chairmanship fees, and up to 100% of certain equity-based compensation, as applicable, subject to restrictions, on a pre-tax basis. This deferred compensation is our unsecured obligation. The Company may make discretionary matching contributions to participant accounts at any time. The Company made no such
Deferred Compensation Plan
 
discretionary matching contributions in 2005, 2004 or 2003. The participant's elective deferrals and any matching contributions are immediately 100% vested. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the total fair value of compensation deferred was $20.9 million and $15.4 million, respectively.
13. Income Per Share
     The Company's only dilutive securities outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were stock options and restricted stock granted under its stock incentive plans. The effect on income per share was to increase weighted average shares outstanding. Such dilution was computed using the treasury stock method. The computation of basic and diluted EPS is presented below (dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts):
14. Commitments and Contingencies
Commitments
     The Company holds operating ground leases on land parcels at its on-tarmac facilities, leases on office spaces for corporate use, and a leasehold interest that it holds for investment purposes. The remaining lease terms are from one to 57 years. Operating lease payments are being amortized ratably over the terms of the related leases. Future minimum rental payments required under non-cancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 2005 were as follows (dollars in thousands):
Lease Commitments.
 
     As of December 31, 2005, the Company had provided approximately $48.7 million in letters of credit, of which $38.4 million was provided under the Operating Partnership's $500.0 million unsecured credit facility. The letters of credit were required to be issued under certain ground lease provisions, bank guarantees and other commitments.
Standby Letters of Credit.
     As of December 31, 2005the Company had outstanding guarantees in the aggregate amount of $128.2 million in connection with certain acquisitions. As of December 31, 2005, the Company guaranteed $23.4 million and $2.3 million on outstanding loans on two of its consolidated joint ventures and one of its unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively.
Guarantees.
,
     As of December 31, 2005, the Company had outstanding performance and surety bonds in an aggregate amount of $0.9 million. These bonds were issued in connection with certain of its development projects and were posted to guarantee certain tax obligations and the construction of certain real property improvements and infrastructure, such as grading, sewers and streets. Performance and surety bonds are commonly required by public agencies from real estate developers. Performance and surety bonds are renewable and expire upon the payment of the taxes due or the completion of the improvements and infrastructure.
Performance and Surety Bonds.
     Upon the achievement of certain return thresholds and the occurrence of certain events, the Company may be obligated to make payments to certain of joint venture partners pursuant to the terms and provisions of their contractual agreements with the Operating Partnership. From time to time in the normal course of the Company's business, the Company enters into various contracts with third parties that may obligate it to make payments or perform other obligations upon the occurrence of certain events.
Promoted Interests and Other Contractual Obligations.
Contingencies
     In the normal course of business, from time to time, the Company may be involved in legal actions relating to the ownership and operations of its properties. Management does not expect that the liabilities, if any, that may ultimately result from such legal actions will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.
Litigation.
     The Company monitors its properties for the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The Company is not aware of any environmental liability with respect to the properties that would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, assets or results of operations. However, there can be no assurance that such a material environmental liability does not exist. The existence of any such material environmental liability would have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and cash flow. The Company carries environmental insurance and believes that the policy terms, conditions, limits and deductibles are adequate and appropriate under the circumstances, given the relative risk of loss, the cost of such coverage and current industry practice.
Environmental Matters.
     The Company carries property and rental loss, liability, flood and terrorism insurance. The Company believes that the policy terms, conditions, limits and deductibles are adequate and appropriate under the circumstances, given the relative risk of loss, the cost of such coverage and current industry practice. In addition, certain of the Company's properties are located in areas that are subject to earthquake activity; therefore, the Company has obtained limited earthquake insurance on those properties. There are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses, such as those due to acts of war that may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Although the Company has obtained coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy specifications and insured limits that it believes are commercially reasonable, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to collect under such policies. Should an uninsured loss occur, the Company could lose its investment in, and anticipated profits and cash flows from, a property.
General Uninsured Losses.
 
     Various properties that the Company owns or leases in New Orleans, Louisiana and South Florida suffered damage in 2005 as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma. Although the Company expects that its insurance will cover losses arising from this damage in excess of the industry standard deductibles paid by the Company, there can be no assurance the Company will be reimbursed for all losses incurred. Management is not aware of circumstances associated with these losses that would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, assets, or results from operations.
     In December 2001, the Company formed a wholly-owned captive insurance company, Arcata National Insurance Ltd. ("Arcata"), which provides insurance coverage for all or a portion of losses below the deductible under the Company's third-party policies. The Company capitalized Arcata in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. Arcata established annual premiums based on projections derived from the past loss experience at the Company's properties. Annually, the Company engages an independent third party to perform an actuarial estimate of future projected claims, related deductibles and projected expenses necessary to fund associated risk management programs. Premiums paid to Arcata may be adjusted based on this estimate. Premiums paid to Arcata have a retrospective component, so that if expenses, including losses, deductibles and reserves, are less than premiums collected, the excess may be returned to the property owners (and, in turn, as appropriate, to the customers) and conversely, subject to certain limitations, if expenses, including losses, deductibles and reserves, are greater than premiums collected, an additional premium will be charged. As with all recoverable expenses, differences between estimated and actual insurance premiums will be recognized in the subsequent year. Through this structure, the Company believes that it has more comprehensive insurance coverage at an overall lower cost than would otherwise be available in the market.
Captive Insurance Company.
 
15. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
     Selected quarterly financial results for 2005 and 2004 were as follows (dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts):
2005
 
 
 
16. Segment Information
     The Company mainly operates industrial properties and manages its business by markets. Such industrial properties represent more than 99.7% of the Company's portfolio by rentable square feet and consist primarily of warehouse distribution facilities suitable for single or multiple customers, and are typically comprised of multiple buildings that are leased to customers engaged in various types of businesses. The Company's geographic markets for industrial properties are managed separately because each market requires different operating, pricing and leasing strategies. The remaining 0.3% of the Company's portfolio is comprised of retail and other properties located in Southeast Florida and Georgia. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (See footnote 2). The Company evaluates performance based upon property net operating income of the combined properties in each segment.
     The other domestic target markets category includes Austin, Baltimore/Washington D.C., Boston and Minneapolis. The other domestic non-target markets category captures all of the Company's other U.S. markets, except for those markets listed individually in the table. The international target markets category includes France, Germany, Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands.
     Summary information for the reportable segments is as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
 
     The Company considers NOI to be an appropriate supplemental performance measure because NOI reflects the operating performance of the Company's real estate portfolio on a segment basis, and the Company uses NOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess regional property level performance. However, NOI should not be viewed as an alternative measure of the Company's financial performance since it does not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expense, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact the Company's results from operations. Further, the Company's NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating NOI. The following table is a reconciliation from NOI to reported net income, a financial measure under GAAP:
The Company's total assets by market were:
 
 
     
17. Subsequent Events
     Effective January 27, 2006, Robert Pattillo Properties, Inc. exercised its rights under its Put Agreement, dated September 24, 2004, with the Operating Partnership, and sold all of its series N preferred units to the Operating Partnership at a price equal to $50.00 per unit, plus all accrued and unpaid distributions to the date of such sale. Also on January 27, 2006, AMB Property II, L.P. repurchased all of the series N preferred units from the Operating Partnership at a price equal to $50.00 per unit, plus all accrued and unpaid distributions to the date of such sale and cancelled all of the outstanding series N preferred units as of such date.
     On February 16, 2006, the Operating Partnership and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries entered into a third amended and restated credit agreement for a $250 million unsecured revolving credit facility that replaced the then-existing $100 million unsecured revolving credit facility that was to mature in June 2008. The Company, along with the Operating Partnership, guarantees the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the Company or the Operating Partnership that are selected to be borrowers by the Operating Partnership from time to time under and pursuant to the credit facility. The four-year credit facility includes a multi-currency component under which up to $250 million can be drawn in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Singapore dollars, Canadian dollars and Euros. The line, which matures in February 2010 and carries a one-year extension option, can be increased up to $350 million upon certain conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.15% of the outstanding commitments. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, based on the current credit rating of the Operating Partnership's senior unsecured long-term debt, which is currently 60 basis points, with an annual facility fee based on the current credit rating of the Operating Partnership's senior unsecured long-term debt. The credit agreement contains affirmative covenants, including financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios by the Operating Partnership, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and general working capital requirements.
     Subsequent to the filing of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K on March 10, 2006, the Company and the Operating Partnership plan to file a registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on June 21, 2006 with respect to the offer, from time to time, of up to $500,000,000 of one or more series of medium-term notes that may be issued by AMB Property, L.P. and guaranteed by the Company. In connection with the filing of this registration statement on Form S-3 and for the sole purpose of meeting post-annual report SEC reporting requirements with respect to such registration statement, the Company restated its audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 due to certain provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" that require the Company to report the results of operations of a property if it has either been disposed or is classified as held for sale in discontinued
 
operations and meets certain other criteria. Accordingly, the Company has restated its audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 to reflect two properties that were held for sale during the three months ended March 31, 2006 and met the criteria to be classified as discontinued operations. The effect of the reclassification represents a $334,000 decrease in its previously reported income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2005. As a result of the foregoing, Notes 4, 9, 13, 15, 16 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements for the three years ended December 31, 2005, have been updated. There is no effect on the Company's previously reported net income, financial condition or cash flows.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


