FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20061213131105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
On December 7, 2006, our board of directors appointed Nina A. Tran as our chief accounting officer. In this position, Ms. Tran will manage our accounting functions. In addition to serving as our chief accounting officer, Ms. Tran, age 38, also holds the position of senior vice president. Ms. Tran joined us in 1995 and has served in a variety of positions in our financial management and reporting department, including Financial Manager, Assistant Portfolio Controller, Retail Controller and Corporate Controller between April 1995 and July 2000. Ms. Tran was also our Vice President and Controller from July 2000 to July 2002, Vice President and Director of Financial Management and Reporting from July 2002 to January 2005 and Senior Vice President and Director of Financial Management and Reporting from January 2005 to December 2006. Prior to joining us in 1995, Ms. Tran was a senior auditor for PricewaterhouseCoopers. Ms. Tran received a bachelor's degree in accounting and computer information systems from California State University at Hayward, and she is a Certified Public Accountant. We also have entered into an indemnification agreement with Ms. Tran pursuant to which we will indemnify her for certain actions she takes in her capacity as our chief accounting officer.
Forward Looking Statements
Some of the information included in this report contains forward-looking statements, such as those related to Ms. Tran's future job responsibilities and performance, which are made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, and you should not rely on the forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events or circumstances reflected in forward-looking statements might not occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "approximately," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates" or "anticipates" or the negative of these words and phrases or similar words or phrases. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily dependent on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and we may not be able to realize them. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak only as of the date of this report or the dates indicated in the statements. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements: defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, increased interest rates and operating costs, our failure to obtain necessary outside financing, re-financing risks, difficulties in identifying properties to acquire and in effecting acquisitions, our failure to successfully integrate acquired properties and operations, our failure to divest properties we have contracted to sell or to timely reinvest proceeds from any divestitures, risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including construction delays, cost overruns, our inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to these activities), our failure to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust, environmental uncertainties, risks related to natural disasters, financial market fluctuations, changes in general economic conditions or in the real estate sector, changes in real estate and zoning laws, a downturn in the U.S., California or global economy, risks related to doing business internationally, losses in excess of our insurance coverage, unknown liabilities acquired in connection with acquired properties or otherwise and increases in real property tax rates. Our success also depends upon economic trends generally, including interest rates, income tax laws, governmental regulation, legislation, population changes and certain other matters discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


