FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20061214161649.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[  ]    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On December 8, 2006, AMB Property, L.P., our subsidiary of which we are the general partner, entered into a euros 228,000,000 (approximately US$301,028,400) facility agreement as carve-out indemnifier and acquisition loan guarantor with our affiliate, AMB European Investments LLC, as the obligors' agent and as a potential acquisition loan borrower, certain of our European affiliates as original term loan borrowers, ING Real Estate Finance NV and certain of its European affiliates as lenders, ING Real Estate Finance NV and certain of its European affiliates as security agents and ING Real Estate Finance NV as facility agent.
The facility agreement provides that certain of our affiliates may borrow either term loans in an aggregate amount of up to euros 228,000,000 (approximately US$301,028,400) or acquisition loans in an aggregate amount of up to euros 100,000,000 (approximately US$132,030,000). The limit for acquisition loans operates as a sub-limit of the total euros 228,000,000 (approximately US$301,028,400) so that aggregate borrowings of term loans and acquisition loans may not exceed euros 228,000,000 (approximately US$301,028,400) taken together.
Drawings under the acquisition loan facility under the facility agreement are guaranteed by us. Drawings under the term loan facility under the facility agreement are not guaranteed by us (as such drawings will be secured by the underlying real estate assets owned by each of our affiliates to whom the relevant term loan is advanced) but we have provided certain limited carve-out indemnity protection in respect of these term loans. Our liability as guarantor in respect of the acquisition loans and as carve-out indemnifier in respect of the term loans can be transferred upon the occurrence of certain events and we will be fully discharged from all such obligations upon such transfer.
The margin applicable to drawings under the term facility is 65 basis points over EURIBOR. Term loans drawn are all repayable on April 30, 2014 (unless otherwise agreed) and may be drawn up to that date. The margin applicable to drawings under the acquisition loan facility is 75 basis points over EURIBOR and acquisition loans are repayable within six months of the date of advance (unless extended). The acquisition loan facility is, unless otherwise agreed, available for drawing for one year from December 8, 2006. A utilisation fee is payable on each drawing. The facility agreement contains affirmative covenants (including, without limitation, financial reporting requirements, real estate covenants and the maintenance of specified financial ratios) and negative covenants (including, without limitation, negative pledge provisions, restrictions on disposals and joint ventures). In addition, the facility agreement includes events (including, without limitation, non-payment under the facility agreement, material breaches of representations and covenants, certain insolvency related events and acceleration under one of our credit agreements), each of which, if not cured within any applicable time period, would constitute a mandatory prepayment event or an event of default.
 
     All conversions from euros to U.S. dollar amounts contained in this report above are calculated using the applicable exchange rate on December 8, 2006.
     A copy of the facility agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated into this current report by reference.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
Page 2
 
Page 3
 
Page 4
 
Page 5
 
is dated 8 December 2006
THIS AGREEMENT
:
Between
as follows:
It is agreed
In this Agreement:
has the meaning set out in Schedule 7 ().
Accounting Date
Financial Covenants
has the meaning set out in Schedule 7 ().
Accounting Period
Financial Covenants
means the acquisition by any Borrower, any PropCo or any ShareCo (as the case may be) of:
Acquisition
and which such acquisition is or will be financed or refinanced by the Facilities.
Page 6
 
means the later of (i) the first anniversary of the date of this Agreement and (ii) such other date as may be agreed from time to time, by the AMB Agent and the Original Lenders of the Facility Agreement.
Acquisition Availability Period
means the Original Acquisition Borrowers or any Additional Acquisition Borrower, as the case may be.
Acquisition Borrower
means:
Acquisition Document
means the acquisition loan facility made available under this Agreement.
Acquisition Facility
means the date on which the Acquisition Facility is first utilised.
Acquisition Facility First Closing Date
means the last day of the Acquisition Availability Period.
Acquisition Final Maturity Date
means each utilisation under the Acquisition Facility.
Acquisition Loan
means:
Acquisition Loan Guarantee
in respect of the obligations of the Acquisition Borrowers under the Acquisition Loans.
means the provider of the Acquisition Loan Guarantee which shall be:
Acquisition Loan Guarantor
means, in relation to each Acquisition Loan, the later of:
Acquisition Loan Repayment Date
means 0.75 per cent. per annum on each Acquisition Loan.
Acquisition Margin
Page 7
 
means:
Additional Acquisition Borrower
means any member of the Group (whether a Term Borrower or otherwise) that accedes to this Agreement as an Additional Acquisition Borrower.
Additional Acquisition Borrowers
means any member of the Group that accedes to this Agreement as an Additional Obligor.
Additional Obligor
means any member of the Group that accedes to this Agreement as an Additional PropCo.
Additional PropCo
means any real property acquired (directly or indirectly) by a Borrower or a PropCo (other than an Original Property) which is financed by a Loan and over which security is granted in accordance with, and subject to, the terms of this Agreement including all Heritable Building Rights, Buildings, fixtures (including trade fixtures) and fixed plant and machinery and other structures now or in the future on it and all easements, access-rights, rights of way, wayleaves, servitudes and rights attaching to it and in each case each and every part of it.
Additional Property
means any member of the Group that accedes to this Agreement as an Additional ShareCo.
Additional ShareCo
means a member of the Group (whether an Acquisition Borrower or otherwise) that becomes an Additional Term Borrower in accordance with this Agreement.
Additional Term Borrower
means a Subsidiary or a Holding Company of a person or any other Subsidiary of that Holding Company.
Affiliate
means the Facility Agent or the Security Agent, as appropriate.
Agent
means an agreement to grant an Occupational Lease of all or part of a Property.
Agreement for Lease
means:
AMB Agent
and, in either case, any wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Original AMB Party that is a party to this Agreement (or with effect from the Logistics Fund Accession Date, any wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Logistics Fund) which it may designate for this purpose on:
Page 8
 
means the loan agreement dated 16 September 2005 (and as amended and restated from time to time) between AMB Capronilaan B.V. and ING Real Estate Finance NV
AMB Capronilaan Loan Agreement
means the facilities made available and outstanding under the AMB Existing Loan Agreements to the extent that these facilities have not been repaid, prepaid, refinanced in full by a utilisation under this Agreement or otherwise cancelled.
AMB Existing Loans
means the AMB France Loan Agreement, AMB Gebude Loan Agreement, AMB Capronilaan Loan Agreement, AMB Koolhovenlaan Loan Agreement and the AMB Port of Hamburg Loan Agreement.
AMB Existing Loan Agreements
means the loan agreement dated 16 March 2004 (and as amended and restated from time to time) between ING Real Estate Finance NV, AMB European Investments LLC and SCI AMB France Three.
AMB France Loan Agreement
means the loan agreement dated 30 December 2004 (and as amended and restated from time to time) between Gebude 556 Cargo City Sd B.V. & Co. KG and ING Real Estate Finance NV.
AMB Gebude Loan Agreement
means the loan agreement dated 2 December 2005 (and as amended and restated from time to time) between AMB Koolhovenlaan 1 B.V., AMB Koolhovenlaan 2 B.V. and ING Real Estate Finance NV.
AMB Koolhovenlaan Loan Agreement
means the loan agreement dated 20 April 2006 (and as amended and restated from time to time) between AMB Port of Hamburg 4 (Waltershof) B.V., AMB Port of Hamburg 5-8 (Steinwerder) B.V. and ING Real Estate Finance NV.
AMB Port of Hamburg Loan Agreement
means the third amended and restated revolving credit agreement, dated as of 1 June, 2006, by and among AMB Property, L.P., as Borrower, the banks listed on the signature pages thereof, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as Administrative Agent for Alternate Currencies, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, Eurohypo AG, New York Branch, Wachovia Bank, N.A. and PNC Bank, National Association, as Documentation Agents, The Bank of Nova Scotia, acting through its San Francisco Agency, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., ING Real Estate Finance (USA) LLC and LaSalle Bank National Association, as Managing Agents.
AMB Property L.P. Loan
means an amendment agreement to amend an AMB Existing Loan such that, that AMB Existing Loan's terms and conditions are amended to be identical to the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement.
Amending AMB Existing Loan Agreement
means the Acquisition Availability Period or the Term Availability Period, as the case may be.
Availability Period
means an Obligor that is incorporated or established in Belgium.
Belgian Obligor
means security that is secured for the benefit of the Finance Parties in accordance with this Agreement and which is subject to the laws of Belgium.
Belgian Security
means the Acquisition Borrowers, the Term Borrowers or any person that accedes to this Agreement and becomes a Borrower after the date of this Agreement.
Borrower
Page 9
 
means the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is subject to unlimited tax liability in regard to its world-wide income.
Borrower's Tax Jurisdiction
means the amount (if any) which a Lender is entitled to receive under Clause 33.3 (sts).
Break Costs
Indemnities and Break Co
means logistics warehouses and other ancillary related property.
Buildings
means a day (other than a Saturday or a Sunday) on which banks are open for general business in London and New York, and which is also a TARGET Day.
Business Day
means:
Carve-out Indemnifier
in either such case, in its capacity as provider of the carve-out liability indemnity set out in Clause 20.2 ().
Recourse  Term Facility and Carve-out Indemnity
means the date which falls three months after the date of completion of any Acquisition and the accession to this Agreement of any Additional Obligor pursuant to Clause 36 ().
Clean-Up Date
Changes to Parties
means the first Utilisation Date of each Loan.
Closing Date
means each Lender's obligation to provide funds to the Borrowers in accordance with this Agreement, to the extent not cancelled, transferred or reduced under this Agreement.
Commitment
means a condition precedent to this Agreement and which is set out in Schedule 2 ().
Condition Precedent
Conditions Precedent
means a completed form of the official English translation (of the "") that is provided by the Security Agent solely to assist the Borrowers under the German Loans in demonstrating the absence of any back-to-back financing to the German tax authorities.
Confirmation Letter
amtliche bersetzung)
Bescheinigung im Sinne der Rn. 5 des BMF-Schreibens vom 22. Juli 2005 (BStBl. I 2005 S. 829)
means a loan advanced in accordance with the Term Facility that has been created by means of Conversion.
Converted Loan
means a conversion from an Acquisition Loan to a Converted Loan in accordance with Clause 8 ().
Conversion
Conversion
means the date that a Conversion takes place and which shall be any Interest Payment Date of an Acquisition Loan or any other date agreed from time to time by the Facility Agent and the AMB Agent.
Conversion Date
means an offer from the Facility Agent to the AMB Agent, in writing, for a Conversion substantially in the form of Part A of Schedule 3 .
Conversion Offer
(Form of Conversion Offer)
means a counterparty to a Hedging Agreement.
Counterparty
Page 10
 
means a form of credit support to the Facility Agent's satisfaction (acting reasonably) that may include a letter of credit, bond or a bank guarantee.
Credit Support
means a cross-guarantee according to which all PropCos whose law of incorporation is France shall undertake to guarantee each PropCo's obligations (except for its own) with respect to the Finance Documents, such guarantee being limited to the Property owned by each PropCo.
Cross-Guarantee
means the agreement substantially in the form of Schedule 15 () entered into or to be entered into by, inter alia, certain of the Obligors, Original Lenders, Facility Agent and Security Agent and certain other members of the Group to subordinate any and all Intra-Group Loans made directly to:
Deed of Subordination
Form of Deed of Subordination
means:
Default
means the account with ING Bank NV, Utrecht in the name of the AMB Agent in which a Borrower or the AMB Agent (on behalf of a Borrower or Borrowers) deposits proceeds in accordance with Clause 26.5(c)(ii)(B) or Clause 33.3(d).
Disposal Proceeds Account
means a Borrower that is incorporated or established in The Netherlands.
Dutch Borrower
means the Civil Code () of The Netherlands.
Dutch Civil Code
Burgerlijk Wetboek
means the Dutch exemption regulation dated 26 June 2002 () (as amended from time to time) of the minister of finance of The Netherlands as promulgated in connection with the WTK.
Dutch Exemption Regulation
Vrijstellingsregeling Wtk 1992
means an Obligor which is incorporated or established in The Netherlands.
Dutch Obligor
means security that is secured for the benefit of the Finance Parties in accordance with this Agreement and which is subject to the laws of The Netherlands.
Dutch Security
means the occurrence of an Event of Default that has resulted in the Facility Agent serving notice in accordance with Clause 28.21 () and, because of which, the Security Agent may enforce its rights to any security in accordance with any Security Document or this Agreement.
Enforcement Event
Notice of Event of Default
means an Obligor which is incorporated or established in England and Wales.
England and Wales Obligor
Page 11
 
means security that is secured for the benefit of the Finance Parties in accordance with this Agreement and which is subject to the laws of the England and Wales.
England and Wales Security
has the meaning set out in Clause 27.4 ().
Environmental Law
Environmental matters
means any place of operations where a member of the Group carries on non-transitory economic activity with human means and goods.
Establishment
means for an Interest Period of any Loan or overdue amount:
EURIBOR
as of 11.00 a.m. (Central European time) on the Rate Fixing Day for the offering of deposits in euro for a period comparable to that Interest Period.
or means the single currency of the Participating Member States.
euro
means:
Event of Default
means the Acquisition Facility and the Term Facility made available under this Agreement.
Facilities
means ING Real Estate Finance NV.
Facility Agent
means the office(s) notified by a Lender to the Facility Agent:
Facility Office
as the office(s) through which it will perform its obligations under this Agreement.
means any letter entered into by reference to this Agreement between the Facility Agent and the AMB Agent setting out the amount of certain fees referred to in this Agreement.
Fee Letter
means:
Final Maturity Date
Page 12
 
means:
Finance Document
means a Lender or, where an Agent is acting on behalf of a Lender, that Agent.
Finance Party
has the meaning set out in Schedule 7 ().
Financial Indebtedness
Financial Covenants
means, in relation to each relevant Property, the value on foreclosure of that Property as determined by the provider(s) of the most recent Valuation in relation to it or, if the AMB Agent and the Facility Agent agree otherwise, by such other valuer(s) or surveyor(s) as they may agree. In the event that the provider(s) of the most recent Valuation(s) of the relevant Property is/are not able to provide such a foreclosure valuation and the AMB Agent and the Facility Agent are not able to agree on alternative valuer(s) or surveyor(s), the foreclosure value of each relevant Property shall be determined by a valuer or surveyor selected by Knight Frank.
Foreclosure Value
has the meaning set out in Clause 20.2(b)(iv) ().
FRAPORT Consent
Recourse  Term Facility and Carve Out Indemnity
means an Obligor that is incorporated or established in France.
French Obligor
means security that is secured for the benefit of the Finance Parties in accordance with this Agreement and which is subject to the laws of the France.
French Security
Page 13
 
means the consequences of any event or circumstances affecting the activities of any Fund Obligor, as the context requires, their assets or their financial position (taken as a whole) which:
Fund Material Adverse Effect
means:
Fund Obligor
means:
Fund Party
has the meaning given to it in Clause 29.12(c)(ii) ().
German Guarantor
Germany
means a Loan in which the Borrower of the Loan has its statutory seat or seat of management in Germany.
German Loan
means use, rights, rights of way and other rights granted to third parties which are registered in Division II of the public land register in Germany at the time of the acquisition of the relevant Property by the Borrower and which have no material impact on the value of the relevant Property and the value and effectiveness of the Security Interest granted or to be granted with respect to the relevant Property, in both cases as determined by the Facility Agent in its reasonable discretion, or which are permitted by the Facility Agent.
German Permitted Encumbrances
means security that is secured for the benefit of the Finance Parties in accordance with this Agreement and which is subject to the laws of Germany.
German Security
means any agreement entered into between a Borrower (and/or any other relevant member of the Group) and the Security Agent in agreed form creating a Security Interest over a Borrower's (and/or any other relevant member of the Group) rights under and in connection with (or, where local law requirements dictate, those possible of):
Global Assignment Agreement
Page 14
 
means a German company with limited liability ().
GmbH
Gesellschaft mit beschrnkter Haftung
means:
Group
means the corporate group structure chart delivered to the Facility Agent on or before the first Utilisation Date and any subsequent corporate group structure chart delivered to the Facility Agent, upon request, from time to time, and which reflects the corporate relationship of the Obligors.
Group Structure Chart
means any interest rate hedging arrangement entered into by the Fund Party and/or any Borrower in connection with the interest payable under this Agreement.
Hedging Arrangements
means a first ranking assignment by way of security over all Hedging Arrangements granted or to be granted in favour of the Security Agent by a Borrower.
Hedging Assignment
means a right, in rem, to own a building on a plot of land according to the German Heritable Right Ordinance () and is held as freehold () or that satisfies all the following conditions:
Heritable Building Right
Verordnung ber das Erbbaurecht
Alleineigentum
of any other person means a company in respect of which that other person is a Subsidiary.
Holding Company
means:
Increased Cost
Page 15
 
which is incurred or suffered by a Finance Party or any of its Affiliates but only to the extent attributable to that Finance Party having entered into any Finance Document or funding or performing its obligations under any Finance Document.
has the meaning given to it in Clause 20.2(b)(iv).
Increased Gebude Loan Amount
means a Valuation of the Original Properties.
Initial Valuation
has the meaning given to it in Clause 27.3(a).
Insurances
means either:
Interest Payment Date
if, however, any such day is not a Business Day, the Interest Payment Date will instead be the next Business Day in that calendar month (if there is one) or the preceding Business Day (if there is not).
means each period determined under this Agreement (including Clause 12.4 () and Clause 13 ()) by reference to which interest on a Loan or an overdue amount is calculated.
Interest Period
Interest on overdue amounts
Interest Periods
means the date on which the first Loan (or more than one Loan on that same date) is utilised under this Agreement.
Initial Closing Date
means loans made by a member of the Group to another member of the Group.
Intra-Group Loans
means a Loan for which a short form agreement is signed by the relevant parties in accordance with Clause 16.3 ().
Italian Loan
Italy
means security that is secured for the benefit of the Finance Parties in accordance with this Agreement and which is subject to the laws of the Italy.
Italian Security
means any joint venture with a third party that is not an Affiliate, whether a company, unincorporated firm, undertaking, association, joint venture or partnership or any other entity.
Joint Venture
means a first ranking land charge in relation to a Property and, where applicable, immediately enforceable, in form and substance satisfactory to the Security Agent which is newly created (or, if applicable, transferred) in favour of the Security Agent (or its equivalent under the laws of any applicable jurisdiction) on or about the Closing Date of the Term Loan advanced in respect of that Property.
Land Charge
means, in respect of a Property, the applicable land registry.
Land Registry
means:
Lease Document
Page 16
 
means:
Legal Reservations
means:
Lender
(a) an Original Lender; or
(b) any person which becomes a Lender after the date of this Agreement.
means a guarantee which is limited in recourse solely to the assets available on realisation of a pledge given by ShareCo over the Shares it holds in the relevant PropCo.
Limited Pledge Guarantee
means, unless otherwise stated in this Agreement, the principal amount of each borrowing under this Agreement or the principal amount outstanding of that borrowing.
Loan
means, at any time:
Loan to Value
means the pan-European logistics fund to be created and managed by any of AMB Property. L.P, AMB Property Europe B.V. or another member of the Parent Group.
Logistics Fund
means the date on which the Logistics Fund accedes to this Agreement and AMB Property, L.P. and the Original AMB Party are released from their obligations under the Finance Documents as set out in Clauses 4.2(b) () and 20 ().
Logistics Fund Accession Date
Further conditions precedent
Recourse
Page 17
 
means the Logistics Fund and its Subsidiaries from time to time.
Logistics Fund Group
means any long term interest bearing deposits within the meaning of marginal notes () 20 and 37 of the decree of the German Federal Ministry of Finance, dated 25 July 2004 (BStBl. I 2004, P. 593) in conjunction with the administrative guidelines of the German Trade Tax Code () granted as security by a person other than the relevant German Obligor as collateral for the credit enhancement of such German Obligor and only if such German Obligor is closely related to the provider of the security within the meaning of  1 (2) CFC-law ().
Long Term Interest Bearing Deposits
Textziffern
Gewerbesteuerrichtlinien
Auensteuergesetz
means, at any time, Lenders:
Majority Lenders
means the percentage rate per annum calculated by the Facility Agent in accordance with Schedule 5 ().
Mandatory Cost
Calculation of the Mandatory Cost
means the Acquisition Margin or the Term Margin, as the context may require.
Margin
means the consequences of any event or circumstances which is both a Fund Material Adverse Effect and an Obligor Material Adverse Effect.
Material Adverse Effect
has the meaning given to it in Clause 20.2(b)(iii) ().
Missing Property Confirmation
Recourse  Term Facility and Carve-out Indemnity
means the gross proceeds of any disposal permitted in accordance with this Agreement plus the proceeds of any Top-Up Contribution in relation to such disposal less an amount evidenced by the relevant Borrower (or, as the case may be, PropCo) or the AMB Agent, in any such case, to the reasonable satisfaction of the Facility Agent prior to the disposal as being that Borrower's, that PropCo's or that AMB Agent's good faith estimate of the costs and expenses associated with that disposal (including repayments of principal) in each case supported by evidence in form and substance satisfactory to the Facility Agent (acting reasonably).
Net Disposal Proceeds
means a Borrower that is not a party to the Term Facility or the Acquisition Facility (as the case may be) as of the date of this Agreement but who subsequently becomes a party pursuant to Clause 36 ().
New Borrower
Changes to Parties
means a Building that is secured by a Security Document in accordance with Clause 30 () and that is substituted for another Building.
New Building
Substitution
has the meaning given to it in Clause 36.2 ().
New Lender
Assignments and transfers by Lenders
Page 18
 
means a Property that is secured by a Security Document in accordance with Clause 30 () and that is substituted for another Property.
New Property
Substitution
means each Loan made under the Term Facility that is not a Converted Loan including, but not limited to, those Loans used to refinance one or more of the AMB Existing Loans.
New Term Loan
means a Borrower, the Acquisition Loan Guarantor, the Carve-out Indemnifier, a PropCo and a ShareCo.
Obligor
means a certificate by an Obligor or Obligors that satisfies paragraph 4 of Part B of Schedule 2 (), paragraph 4 of Part C of Schedule 2 (), paragraph 13 of Part C of Schedule 2 (), paragraph 4 of Part D of Schedule 2 (), paragraph 13 of Part D of Schedule 2 () and/or paragraph 4 of Part F of Schedule 2 ().
Obligor Certificate
Conditions Precedent  Upon signing this Agreement
Conditions Precedent  Acquisition Loan
Conditions Precedent  Acquisition Loan
Conditions Precedent Term Loans
Conditions Precedent Term Loans
Conditions Precedent  Additional Obligor
means the consequences of any event or circumstances affecting the activities of any Obligor (excluding any Fund Obligor), their assets or their financial position (taken as a whole) which:
Obligor Material Adverse Effect
means any lease or licence or other right of occupation or right to receive rent to which a Property may at any time be subject.
Occupational Lease
means AMB European Investments LLC.
Original AMB Party
means the entities listed in Part A of Schedule 1 ().
Original Acquisition Borrowers
Original Parties and Properties
means each Original Acquisition Borrower and each Original Term Borrower at the date that this Agreement is signed.
Original Borrower
means the financial institutions listed in Part E of Schedule 1 ().
Original Lenders
Original Parties and Properties
means the Acquisition Loan Guarantor, the Carve-out Indemnifier, the Original Borrowers, the Original PropCos and the Original ShareCos.
Original Obligors
means each property listed in Part G of Schedule 1 () which is financed by a Loan made on the Initial Closing Date including all Heritable Building Rights, Buildings, fixtures (including trade fixtures) and fixed plant and machinery and other structures now or in the future on it and all easements, access-rights, rights of way, wayleaves, servitudes and rights attaching to it and in each case each and every part of it.
Original Property
Original Parties and Properties
Page 19
 
means each of the entities of AMB Property, L.P. as listed in Part C of Schedule 1 ().
Original PropCo
Original Parties and Properties
means each of the entities of AMB Property, L.P. as listed in Part D of Schedule 1 ().
Original ShareCo
Original Parties and Properties
means each of the entities of AMB Property, L.P. as listed in Part B of Schedule 1 ().
Original Term Borrowers
Original Parties and Properties
has the meaning given to it in Clause 21 ().
Parallel Obligations
Parallel Debt
means AMB Property, L.P., a limited liability partnership established in the State of Delaware in the United States of America.
Parent
means AMB Property, L.P. and its Subsidiaries from time to time.
Parent Group
means a member state of the European Communities that adopts or has adopted the euro as its lawful currency under the legislation of the European Community for Economic Monetary Union.
Participating Member State
means a party to this Agreement.
Party
means a disclosure to which the Facility Agent, in its absolute discretion, consents before an Additional Obligor accedes to this Agreement and which following any such consent will qualify any of the representations and warranties and covenants set out in this Agreement.
Permitted Disclosure
means an encumbrance on a Property or over Shares or other assets of any Obligor secured pursuant to a Security Document, as applicable, which is permitted pursuant to Clause 26.4(d)(i) to 26.4(d)(xii) (inclusive).
Permitted Encumbrance
means a payment made by a Borrower provided that:
Permitted Payment
means all applicable laws and regulations governing or controlling the use or development of land and property, including building permissions.
Planning/Zoning Laws
means the 2005 Dutch Central Bank's policy guidelines (issued in relation to the Exemption Regulation) dated 29 December 2004 () as amended from time to time.
Policy Guidelines
Beleidsregel 2005 kernbegrippen markttoetreding en handhaving Wtk 1992
has the meaning given to it in Clause 21 ().
Principal Obligations
Parallel Debt
means a professional market party as defined in the Dutch Exemption Regulation.
Professional Market Party
means an Original Property and/or an Additional Property, as the context may require.
Property
Page 20
 
means an Obligor that directly owns one or more Properties each of which has been financed by a Loan and includes an Original PropCo and any Additional PropCo.
PropCo
means a guarantee given by a PropCo in accordance with Clause 29.7(b)(ii) () with this Agreement and in the form of Schedule 13 ()
PropCo Guarantee
ShareCo as a Term Borrower
PropCo Guarantee
has the meaning given to it by Clause 12.3(b)(i) ().
Proposed Counterparty
Hedging
means a Lender:
Qualifying Lender
means, in respect of an Interest Period, the second TARGET Day before the first day of that Interest Period or such other day as the Facility Agent determines is generally treated as the rate fixing day by market practice in the relevant interbank market.
Rate Fixing Day
means any of the EURIBOR panel banks as disclosed officially by the European Banking Federation.
Reference Institutions
means a letter from a third party upon which the Facility Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) may rely, as authorised by that third party.
Reliance Letter
means a reply to a Request for an Acquisition Loan or a New Term Loan substantially in the form of Schedule 16 ().
Reply
Reply to a Request
means a request for an Acquisition Loan or a New Term Loan substantially in the form of Schedule 4 ().
Request
Form of Request
means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. or any successor to its rating business.
S&P
Page 21
 
means the percentage rate per annum determined by the Banking Federation of the European Union, for the relevant currency and Interest Period displayed on the appropriate page of the telerate screen selected by the Facility Agent. If the relevant page is replaced or the service ceases to be available, the Facility Agent (after consultation with the Borrowers and the Lenders) may specify another page or service displaying the appropriate rate.
Screen Rate
means any and all obligations secured by any Obligor pursuant to the Security Documents.
Secured Obligation
means the terms and conditions contained in Schedule 10 () that each party that executes a Security Document agrees to in addition to those terms and conditions contained in such Security Document.
Security Administration Principles
Security Administration Principles
means those entities listed as such in Part F of Schedule 1 ().
Security Agent
Original Parties and Properties
means:
Security Document
means any mortgage, pledge, lien, charge, assignment, hypothecation or security interest or any other agreement or arrangement having a similar effect.
Security Interest
means the terms and conditions contained in Schedule 9 () that each party that executes a Security Document agrees to in addition to those terms and conditions contained in the Security Document.
Security Principles
Security Principles
means an Obligor that owns shares in a PropCo but does not own any Property itself and includes each Original ShareCo and any Additional ShareCo.
ShareCo
means a guarantee given by a ShareCo in accordance with this Agreement.
ShareCo Guarantee
means shares acquired by a ShareCo in a PropCo in connection with the acquisition of Property and/or Buildings and which is to be financed or refinanced by the Facilities.
Shares
means a security document creating a Security Interest over the shares in a PropCo, in each case, in favour of the Security Agent.
Share Security
Page 22
 
means the forms scheduled to this agreement at Schedule 11 (), Schedule 12 (, a short form agreement signed in relation to an Italian Loan and a short form agreement signed in relation to a Spanish Loan.
Short Form Agreement
France  Short Form Agreement: Form of mortgage deed (by PropCo as Guarantor)
France  Short Form Agreement: Form of mortgage deed (by an Additional Acquisition or Additional Term Borrower))
means a certificate by an Obligor or Obligors that satisfies paragraph 2 of Part B of Schedule 2 (), paragraph 2 of Part C of Schedule 2 (), paragraph 2 of Part D of Schedule 2 () and/or paragraph 2 of Part F of Schedule 2 ().
Signature Certificate
Conditions Precedent  Upon signing this Agreement
Conditions Precedent  Acquisition Loan
Conditions Precedent Term Loans
Conditions Precedent  Additional Obligor
means the Properties listed as numbered items 1 to 15 Part G of Schedule 1 ().
Sirius Portfolio
Original Parties and Properties
means a Loan for which a short form agreement is signed by the relevant parties in accordance with Clause 16.4 ().
Spanish Loan
Spain
means security that is secured for the benefit of the Finance Parties in accordance with this Agreement and which is subject to the laws of the Spain.
Spanish Security
means, with respect to a specified person, any other person directly or indirectly controlled by or under direct or indirect control of such person. For purpose of this definition, when used with respect to any specified person means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
Subsidiary
control
means the date that a substitution of a Property takes place in accordance with Clause 30 ().
Substitution Date
Substitution
means a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer payment system is open for the settlement of payments in euro.
TARGET Day
means any tax, levy, impost, duty or other charge or withholding of a similar nature (including any related penalty or interest).
Tax
means a credit against, relief for, remission for, or repayment of any Tax.
Tax Credit
means a deduction or withholding for, or on account of, Tax from a payment under a Finance Document.
Tax Deduction
means a payment, or increased payment, made by an Obligor to a Finance Party in any way relating to a Tax Deduction, or under any indemnity, given by that Obligor in respect of Tax under any Finance Document.
Tax Payment
means the letter in substantially the same form as Schedule 13 () and in accordance with Clause 16.2(b).
TEG Letter
Form of TEG Letter
means the period from the date of this Agreement until 30 April 2014 or such other later date as may be agreed between the parties in accordance with Clause 35 ().
Term Availability Period
Amendments and Waivers
Page 23
 
means any Original Term Borrower and any Additional Term Borrower.
Term Borrower
means the term loan facility made available under this Agreement.
Term Facility
means the date on which the Term Facility is first utilised.
Term Facility First Closing Date
means 30 April 2014 or such other later date as agreed between the parties in accordance with Clause 35 ().
Term Final Maturity Date
Amendments and Waivers
means a New Term Loan or a Converted Loan.
Term Loan
means 0.65 per cent. per annum on each New Term Loan and each Converted Loan or as otherwise adjusted in accordance with Clause 7 () and Clause 35.3 ().
Term Margin
Term Facility
Change to the Term Margin
means a contribution (made directly or indirectly) by the Parent or the Logistics Fund into a Borrower or a PropCo whether by way of a subscription for equity in such Borrower or the advance of a shareholder loan pursuant to an Intra-Group Loan.
Top-Up Contribution
means the aggregate maximum principal amount of 228,000,000 for both the Acquisition Facility and the Term Facility.
Total Commitments
means:
Transaction Document
means a certificate, substantially in the form of Part A () or Part B () of Schedule 6 () or any other form agreed between the Facility Agent and the AMB Agent.
Transfer Certificate
Form of Transfer Certificate for Transfers by Assignment
Form of Transfer Certificate  Transfers by Novation
Forms of Transfer Documents
means in respect of a Lender which has advanced a Loan to a Borrower under this Agreement, a Lender, which, on an Interest Payment Date:
Treaty Lender
Page 24
 
means the E.U. State of a Lender in accordance with Clause 5.5(a)(i) or 5.5(a)(ii) that has a double taxation agreement with the E.U State to which the relevant Borrower is subject for taxation purposes and, thereby, making the Loan of such Lender and Borrower exempt from taxation on interest.
Treaty State
means, in respect of an Obligor (as the case may be), the occurrence of one or more events in Clause 28 ().
Trigger Event
Trigger Events and Default
means each date on which a Facility is utilised.
Utilisation Date
means in relation to a Property, a valuation (or, as the case may be, the latest valuation) of that Property by the Valuer prepared on a basis acceptable to the Facility Agent (acting reasonably) on a gross value basis :
Valuation
less
means the valuer or surveyor selected by the AMB Agent (or relevant Borrower) with the consent of the Facility Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
Valuer
means value added tax, or any other tax of a similar nature.
VAT
means the Netherlands Credit System Supervision Act 1992 (), as amended from time to time.
WTK
Wet toezicht kredietwezen 1992
1.2 Construction
Page 25
 
Page 26
 
1.3 Corporate benefit restrictions
Page 27
 
1.4 Dutch terms
In this Agreement, where it relates to any Dutch Borrower, a reference to a closed circle Lender means a Lender that forms part of a closed circle () with the Dutch Borrowers at the relevant time within the meaning of the Dutch Exemption Regulation and the Policy Guidelines.
besloten kring
2. FACILITY
2.1 Facility
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Lenders make available to the Borrowers the Facilities in an aggregate amount equal to the Total Commitments provided that:
and subject always to the provisions of Clause 9 ().
Calculation of the Aggregate Amount of the Facilities
2.2 Nature of rights and obligations
Unless all the Finance Parties agree otherwise:
Page 28
 
2.3 Appointment of agent for the Obligors
3. PURPOSE
3.1 Loans
3.2 No obligation to monitor
No Finance Party is bound to monitor or verify the utilisation of the Facilities.
Page 29
 
4. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT
4.1 Conditions precedent documents
4.2 Further conditions precedent
Page 30
 
4.3 Conditions subsequent
5. UTILISATION
5.1 Giving of Requests
5.2 Completion of Requests
Page 31
 
5.3 Reply to a Request
Following the giving of a Request, the Facility Agent shall deliver to AMB Agent a Reply substantially in the form of Schedule 16 ().
Reply to a Request
5.4 Conversion Offer
Page 32
 
5.5 Advance of Loan
Page 33
 
6. ACQUISITION FACILITY
6.1 Property for an Acquisition Loan
6.2 Request for multiple Acquisition Borrowers
The AMB Agent (acting on the instruction of the relevant Acquisition Borrowers) shall have the right to request that an Acquisition Loan be borrowed by more than one Acquisition Borrower in accordance with this Clause 6 ().
Acquisition Facility
6.3 Consent to multiple Acquisition Borrowers
The Facility Agent shall only be obliged to consent to multiple Borrowers for an Acquisition Loan in accordance with Clause 6.2 if the AMB Agent has obtained the Facility Agent's written consent prior to the date of any Request for the relevant Acquisition Loan. Such consent may not be unreasonably withheld or delayed by the Facility Agent and shall be subject to the condition that any Acquisition Loan advanced to multiple Acquisition Borrowers shall, when advanced, constitute a joint and several liability of each such Acquisition Borrower for the whole Acquisition Loan.
6.4 Failure to consent
If a Request is made by the AMB Agent for multiple Acquisition Borrowers in accordance with Clause 6.2 and the Facility Agent's written consent has not been obtained prior to the date of such Request in accordance with Clause 6.3, the relevant Request shall be without effect and the Facility Agent shall be under no obligation to make the relevant Acquisition Loan.
Page 34
 
7. TERM FACILITY
7.1 Property for a New Term Loan
7.2 Review of terms
The terms and conditions of this Agreement pertaining to the Term Facility will be reviewed annually during the period commencing 20 Business Days before each anniversary of the date of this Agreement. Following this review and, with effect from no earlier than that anniversary date, and as agreed between the Facility Agent and the AMB Agent, the terms and conditions of this Agreement pertaining to the rate of the Term Facility may be amended in accordance with Clause 35 () including, but not limited to, the Term Margin applicable to Term Loans utilised after the date of the amendment. Such amendment shall not amend the Term Margin applicable to Term Loans utilised before such date nor shall it invalidate or waive any obligations of the Borrowers, unless otherwise expressly agreed and stated in the relevant amendment.
Amendments and Waivers
7.3 Advancement of Term Loans
Each Party acknowledges that each Term Loan shall be advanced by way of Conversion except for New Term Loans, which shall be a Term Loan from the date of its first utilisation under the Facilities created by this Agreement, subject to the fulfilment of the conditions precedents in accordance with Clause 4.2(a)(iii) ().
Conditions Precedent
7.4 Request for multiple Term Borrowers
The AMB Agent (acting on the instruction of the Borrowers) shall have the right to request that a Term Loan be borrowed by more than one Term Borrower in accordance with this Clause 7 ().
Term Facility
7.5 Consent to multiple Term Borrowers
The Facility Agent shall only be obliged to consent to multiple Term Borrowers for a Term Loan in accordance with Clause 7.4 if the AMB Agent has obtained the Facility Agent's written consent prior to the date of any Request for the relevant Term Loan. Such consent may not be unreasonably withheld or delayed by the Facility Agent and shall be subject to the condition that any Term Loan advanced to multiple Term Borrowers shall, when advanced, constitute a joint and several liability of each such Term Borrower for the whole Term Loan.
7.6 Failure to consent
If a Request is made by the AMB Agent for multiple Term Borrowers in accordance with Clause 7.4 and the Facility Agent's written consent has not been obtained prior to the date of such Request in
Page 35
 
accordance with Clause 7.5, the relevant Request shall be invalid and the Facility Agent shall be under no obligation to make the Term Loan.
8. CONVERSION
8.1 Converted Loans
Page 36
 
9. CALCULATION OF THE AGGREGATE AMOUNT OF THE FACILITIES
Page 37
 
10. REPAYMENT
11. PREPAYMENT AND CANCELLATION
11.1 Mandatory prepayment  Illegality
Page 38
 
11.2 Prepayment  Tax and Increased Costs
11.3 Mandatory Prepayment following the occurrence of certain Trigger Events
Page 39
 
11.4 Voluntary prepayment
Page 40
 
11.5 Automatic cancellation
11.6 Miscellaneous provisions
Page 41
 
12. INTEREST
12.1 Calculation of interest
12.2 Payment of interest
Except where it is provided to the contrary in this Agreement, each Borrower shall pay accrued interest on each Loan made to it on each of the Interest Payment Dates applicable to that Loan.
12.3 Hedging
Page 42
 
Page 43
 
Page 44
 
12.4 Interest on overdue amounts
Page 45
 
12.5 Notification of rates of interest
The Facility Agent shall promptly notify each relevant Party of the determination of a rate of interest under this Agreement.
13. INTEREST PERIODS
13.1 Interest Periods
14. MARKET DISRUPTION
14.1 Failure of a Reference Bank to supply a rate
If EURIBOR is to be calculated by reference to the Reference Institutions but a Reference Bank does not supply a rate by 2.00 p.m. (Central European Time) on a Rate Fixing Day, the applicable EURIBOR will, subject as provided below, be calculated on the basis of the rates of the remaining Reference Institutions.
14.2 Market disruption
Page 46
 
14.3 Alternative basis of interest or funding
15. TAXES
15.1 Tax gross-up
(b) If:
Page 47
 
15.2 Tax indemnity
Page 48
 
15.3 Tax Credit
If an Obligor makes a Tax Payment and the relevant Finance Party reasonably establishes that:
the Finance Party shall pay an amount to that Obligor which that Finance Party reasonably establishes that such payment will leave it (after that payment) in the same after-tax position as it would have been if the Tax Payment had not been required to be made by the Obligor.
15.4 Miscellaneous taxes
15.5 Value added taxes
Page 49
 
15.6 German thin capitalisation
Page 50
 
Page 51
 
transfer, assign, sell or withdraw any Accounts pledged as Long Term Interest Bearing Deposits.
15.7 No legal or tax advice provided by Finance Parties
No Finance Party is providing any legal and/or tax advice to any other Party with respect to this Agreement. It is the responsibility of each Obligor to consult its own legal and tax advisers.
16. ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTATION
16.1 Short Form Agreements
16.2 France
if it is necessary to lodge with the relevant authorities a form of this Agreement in order to:
Page 52
 
16.3 Italy
Page 53
 
16.4 Spain
but, only if, it is necessary to lodge with the relevant authorities a form of this Agreement in order to:
17. INCREASED COSTS
17.1 Increased Costs
Except as provided in Clause 17.2 (), each Obligor shall pay to a Finance Party the amount of any Increased Cost incurred by that Finance Party or any of its Affiliates as a result of any change, after the date of this Agreement, to any law, regulation, provision or directive including, but not limited to:
Exceptions
that entails an increase in the cost to the Lender of complying with its obligations under this Agreement.
17.2 Exceptions
No Obligor need make any payment for an Increased Cost to the extent that the Increased Cost is:
Page 54
 
implements Basel II (whether such implementation, application or compliance is by a government, regulator, Finance Party or any of its Affiliates).
17.3 Claims
18. MITIGATION
18.1 Mitigation
including (but not required to) transferring its rights and obligations under the Finance Documents to an Affiliate or changing its Facility Office.
18.2 Conduct of business by a Finance Party
No term of this Agreement will:
Page 55
 
19. PAYMENTS
19.1 Place
Unless a Finance Document specifies that payments under it are to be made in another manner, all payments by a Party (other than the Facility Agent) under the Finance Documents shall be made to the Facility Agent to its account at such office or bank in the principal financial centre of a Participating Member State (as it may notify to that Party and for this purpose by not less than five Business Days' prior notice).
19.2 Funds
Payments under the Finance Documents to the Facility Agent shall be made for value on the due date at such times and in such funds as the Facility Agent may specify to the Party concerned as being customary at the time for the settlement of transactions in the relevant currency in the place for payment.
19.3 Distribution
19.4 Currency
Page 56
 
19.5 No set-off or counterclaim
All payments made by an Obligor under the Finance Documents shall be calculated and made without (and free and clear of any deduction for) set-off or counterclaim.
19.6 Business Days
19.7 Partial payments
19.8 Timing of payments
If a Finance Document does not provide for when a particular payment is due, that payment will be due within five Business Days of demand by the relevant Finance Party.
Page 57
 
20. RECOURSE
20.1 Recourse  Acquisition Facility
20.2 Recourse  Term Facility and Carve-out Indemnity
provided that no liability or obligation on the Carve-out Indemnifier shall arise or be incurred under this Clause 20.2(b)(i) unless and to the extent that the relevant Term Borrower (including its officers, directors and employees) has committed an act of fraud, deliberate misconduct knowingly materially prejudicial to the Security Documents, any other Security Interests created under the Finance Documents, the
Page 58
 
Security Principles or their enforcement and the enforcement rights of the Finance Parties thereunder or has otherwise misappropriated funds in bad faith contrary to the terms of the Finance Documents.
provided that if the AMB Agent or any relevant Obligor provides the Facility Agent with evidence (in a form satisfactory to the Facility Agent (acting reasonably)):
the indemnity set out in this Clause 20.2(b)(iii) shall, with effect from the date of which such evidence is provided, no longer cover any losses that arise in respect of that Property and the relevant certification or cover that was formerly listed as a Missing Property Confirmation and in respect of which such evidence has subsequently been provided.
Page 59
 
the Carve-out Indemnifier shall indemnify and keep indemnified the Finance Parties on a full recourse basis for the losses resulting from such late consent in an amount up to:
provided that such indemnity shall cease to apply with effect from the earlier of the date on which:
provided further that if the FRAPORT Consent and/or such any prepayment or repayment is not obtained or made in respect of the full amount of the Increased Gebude Loan Amount, such indemnity shall cease to apply to the extent of the amount of (x) any such FRAPORT Consent actually obtained and in respect of which Clauses 29.9(a)(i), 29.9(a)(ii)and 29.9(a)(iv) have been complied with to the extent of the relevant amount in respect of which the FRAPORT Consent has been given and in relation to the amount so consented to and/or (y) any prepayment or repayment actually made.
Page 60
 
20.3 France  Cross-collateralisation by a Cross-Guarantee
20.4 Registration Charges
The Carve-out Indemnifier acknowledges and agrees for the benefit of the Finance Parties (providing any Term Loan or acting as Facility Agent or Security Agent in respect thereof) that, from the Term Facility First Closing Date and following the occurrence of any Enforcement Event in respect of any Term Loan, it shall indemnify and keep indemnified the Finance Parties on a full recourse after-tax full basis for additional registration charges payable in respect of each Land Charge which creates a Security Interest over the Property financed by the relevant Term Loan to the relevant Land Registries if such costs are incurred as a result of an Event of Default.
Page 61
 
20.5 Recourse  Generally
20.6 Limitation on Recourse to the Fund Obligors
21. PARALLEL DEBT
Page 62
 
22. ACQUISITION LOAN GUARANTEE AND INDEMNITY
22.1 Acquisition Loan Guarantee and indemnity
Page 63
 
22.2 Continuing guarantee
Subject to Clause 20.1 (), the Acquisition Loan Guarantee shall be a continuing guarantee and will extend to the ultimate balance of all sums payable by the relevant Acquisition Borrower under the Finance Documents in its capacity as an Acquisition Borrower, regardless of any intermediate payment or discharge in whole or in part. For the avoidance of doubt, the Acquisition Loan Guarantee shall not extend to sums payable by the Logistics Fund as an Additional Acquisition Borrower.
Recourse  Acquisition Facility
22.3 Reinstatement
22.4 Waiver of defences
The obligations of the Acquisition Loan Guarantor under the Acquisition Loan Guarantee shall not be affected by any act, omission or thing which, but for this provision, would reduce, release or prejudice any of its obligations under the Acquisition Loan Guarantee (whether or not known to it or any Finance Party). This includes:
Page 64
 
22.5 Immediate recourse
The Acquisition Loan Guarantor shall waive any right it may have of first requiring any Finance Party (or any trustee or agent on its behalf) to proceed against or enforce any other right or security or claim or payment from any person before claiming from the Acquisition Loan Guarantor under the Acquisition Loan Guarantee.
22.6 Appropriations
Until all amounts which may be or become payable by the relevant Acquisition Borrower under or in connection with the Finance Documents in its capacity as an Acquisition Borrower have been irrevocably paid in full, each Finance Party (or any trustee or agent on its behalf) may without affecting the liability of the Acquisition Loan Guarantor under the Acquisition Loan Guarantee:
22.7 Non-competition
Unless:
the Acquisition Loan Guarantor shall not, after a claim has been made or by virtue of any payment or performance by it under this Clause:
The Acquisition Loan Guarantor shall hold in trust for and immediately pay or transfer to the Facility Agent for the Finance Parties any payment or distribution or benefit of security received by it contrary
Page 65
 
to the Acquisition Loan Guarantee or in accordance with any directions given by the Facility Agent under the Acquisition Loan Guarantee.
22.8 Additional security
The Acquisition Loan Guarantee shall be in addition to and is not in any way prejudiced by any other security now or subsequently held by any Finance Party.
22.9 Limitation
Page 66
 
23. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE LENDERS
23.1 Professional Market Party
provided that on each Utilisation Date of the relevant Loan, it is a requirement of Dutch law that such Lender be a Professional Market Party.
24. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE OBLIGORS
24.1 Representations and warranties
The representations and warranties set out in this Clause 24 () are made by each Obligor (unless otherwise specified) in respect of itself only to each Finance Party except that:
Representations and warranties of the Obligors
Page 67
 
24.2 Status
24.3 Powers and authority
It has the power to enter into and perform, and has taken all necessary action to authorise the entry into and performance by it of the Finance Documents to which it is or will be a party and the transactions undertaken by it contemplated by those Finance Documents.
24.4 Legal validity
Subject to the Legal Reservations, the obligations expressed to be assumed by it in each Finance Document to which it is a party are legal, binding, valid and enforceable obligations.
24.5 Non-conflict
The entry into and performance by it of, and the transactions contemplated by, the Finance Documents to which it is a party do not conflict with:
24.6 No default
24.7 Authorisations
All material authorisations required by it in connection with the entry into, validity and enforceability of, and the transactions contemplated by, the Transaction Documents to which it is a party, and without which there is reasonably likely to be a Material Adverse Effect, have been obtained or effected (as appropriate) and are in full force and effect or, in each case, will be when required.
Page 68
 
24.8 Financial statements
Its financial statements most recently delivered to the Finance Parties (or, if not yet available, any other sufficient current financial information provided to the Finance Parties) have, to the best of its knowledge:
24.9 Litigation
No litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings are current or pending in relation to it which, in either case, have or, if adversely determined, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
No insolvency or similar proceedings of the type specified in Clause 28.7 () have been instituted against it, and to the best of its knowledge no such proceedings are threatened or pending against it (other than proceedings which are frivolous and are dismissed, stayed or discharged within twenty-one (21) days of commencement).
Insolvency proceedings
24.11 Information
Page 69
 
is true and accurate as at its date or (if appropriate) as at the date (if any) at which it is stated to be given provided that any untruthfulness, inaccuracy or incompleteness of such information shall not result in a breach of this representation and warranty if it is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
24.12 Property
Page 70
 
24.13 Acquisition Document claims
No material warranty claims are outstanding or have been made under an Acquisition Document to which it is a party which are reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
24.14 Security
Subject to any rights of any ground lessors under any headlease under which title to any Property is held by the relevant member of the Group, the security conferred by each Security Document constitutes or will, when registered, constitute a first priority Security Interest of the type described, and over the assets referred to, in that Security Document and those assets are not subject to any prior Security Interest except Permitted Encumbrances or German Permitted Encumbrances.
24.15 Group Structure Chart
The Group Structure Chart provided to the Facility Agent as at the date of this Agreement shows the correct corporate relationship of the Original Obligors.
Page 71
 
24.16 Taxes
The Taxes payable by the Obligors in relation to the Properties have been paid at their due date (unless they are being contested in good faith) including, but not limited to, Taxes payable pursuant to the Lease Documents, and no claim that is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect has been made by the tax authorities against any of the Obligors in relation to the Properties.
24.17 Dutch Borrower regulatory compliance
Each Dutch Borrower that is a credit institution () under the WTK is in compliance with the applicable provisions of the WTK and any implementing regulation, including the Dutch Exemption Regulation.
kredietinstelling
24.18 Times for making representations and warranties
25. INFORMATION COVENANTS
25.1 General
Each Obligor agrees to be bound by the covenants set out in this Clause 25 () that are stated to be applicable to it relating to itself only and shall not be responsible for the covenants hereunder made by any other number of the Group.
Information Covenants
Page 72
 
25.2 Financial statements
25.3 Form of financial statements
Page 73
 
25.4 Notification of Default
25.5 Know your customer requirements
25.6 Group Structure Chart
25.7 Compliance Certificate
Page 74
 
25.8 Valuations
26. GENERAL COVENANTS
26.1 General
Each Obligor agrees to be bound by the covenants set out in this Clause 26 () that are stated to be applicable to it relating to itself only and shall not be responsible for the covenants hereunder made by any other member of the Group but as otherwise qualified by any Permitted Disclosure.
General Covenants
26.2 Authorisations
It shall comply with the terms of any authorisation required under any law or regulation to:
Page 75
 
26.3 Pari passu ranking
Each Obligor shall ensure that its payment obligations under the Finance Documents (including, but not limited to, any Hedging Arrangement) at all times rank at least pari passu with all its other present and future unsecured payment obligations, except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to companies generally.
26.4 Negative pledge
Page 76
 
26.5 Disposals
Page 77
 
provided that if the disposal is required as a Cure Act (as defined in Schedule 7 ()) to cure a potential breach of a financial covenant contained in Schedule 7 () and otherwise complies with Schedule 9 () and does not have a Material Adverse Effect, Clause 26.5(c)(ii)(B) shall not be available to the relevant Borrower.
Financial Covenants
Financial Covenants
Security Principles
26.6 Financial Indebtedness
Page 78
 
26.7 Logistics Fund
26.8 Change of business and structure
Unless otherwise agreed by the Facility Agent, no PropCo in relation to the Shares of which the Finance Parties have a Security Interest may carry on any other business other than related to the acquisition, holding, leasing and where applicable, extension of the Properties and the Buildings or owning subsidiaries that carry on such business or, in any such case, matters ancillary to any of them.
26.9 Control and Change of Control
Page 79
 
26.10 Business Activity
Each Obligor will:
26.11 Taxes
26.12 Financial covenants
Each Obligor shall, where relevant to it, comply with the requirements of Schedule 7 ().
Financial Covenants
26.13 Syndication
Page 80
 
26.14 Joint ventures
26.15 Notification of a Fund Material Adverse Effect or an Obligor Material Adverse Effect
The AMB Agent shall notify the Facility Agent of either:
within 2 Business Days of it becoming aware of the occurrence of any Fund Material Adverse Effect or the Obligor Material Adverse Effect (as the case may be).
26.16 BRU Cargo Loan
AMB BRU Air Cargo Center BVBA, the AMB Agent and AMB European Investments LLC shall comply with Schedule 17 ().
BRU Cargo Loan
26.17 Deed of Subordination
Page 81
 
27. PROPERTY COVENANTS
27.1 General
Each Obligor agrees to be bound by the covenants set out in this Clause 27 () that are stated to be applicable to it relating to itself only and shall not be responsible for the covenants hereunder made by any other member of the Group.
Property Covenants
27.2 Lease Agreements and Management Agreements
Each Term Borrower and each other PropCo holding a Property financed directly or indirectly by a Term Loan agrees with respect to the relevant Property:
27.3 Insurances
Page 82
 
Page 83
 
27.4 Environmental matters
Page 84
 
27.5 Repairs, compliance and developments
Page 85
 
27.6 Granting and registration of security
Each Obligor that executes a Security Document covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Finance Parties to be bound by the Security Principles contained in Schedule 9 () and the Security Administration Principles contained in Schedule 10 () and on each occasion that a Security Document is executed by an Obligor or an Additional Obligor, as the case may be, each party to that Security Document will acknowledge and agree for the benefit of the Finance Parties to be bound by the Security Principles and the Security Administration Principles.
Security Principles
Security Administration Principles
27.7 Time for making property covenants
The covenants set out in Clause 27.3 (), Clause 27.4 () and Clause 27.5 () shall not apply as of the Term Facility First Closing Date in relation to the Property listed in Part G of Schedule 1 () but only to the extent that the Missing Property Confirmation would cause a breach of Clause 27.3 (), Clause 27.4 () and Clause 27.5 () and in place thereof, the Carve-out Indemnifier shall indemnify the Finance Parties in accordance with Clause 20.2(b)(iii).
Insurances
Environmental matters
Repairs, compliance and developments
Original Parties and Properties
Insurances
Environmental matters
Repairs, compliance and developments
28. TRIGGER EVENTS AND EVENTS OF DEFAULT
28.1 Trigger Events
The occurrence of any one of the events specified in Clause 4.3(b) (), Clauses 28.2 () to 28.17 () shall be a . To the extent that any such Trigger Event upon its occurrence has not been remedied or waived, then the provisions of Clause 11.3(a) () or 28.20 (), as applicable, shall apply upon the terms specified therein.
Conditions Subsequent
Non-Payment
Material Adverse Effect
Trigger Event
Mandatory Prepayment following the occurrence of certain Trigger Events
Events of Default
28.2 Non-payment
Page 86
 
28.3 Breach of other obligations
An Obligor does not comply with any term of the Finance Documents applicable to it or any of its other obligations hereunder (other than any payment obligation hereunder), unless the non-compliance:
28.4 Misrepresentation
A representation or warranty made or repeated by an Obligor in any Finance Document or in any document delivered by an Obligor under any Finance Document is, subject to any Permitted Disclosure, not true on the date given, unless the circumstances giving rise to the misrepresentation or breach of warranty:
28.5 Cross-default
28.6 Insolvency
Any of the following occurs in respect of an Obligor (other than in respect of shareholder loans):
Page 87
 
28.7 Insolvency proceedings
28.8 Enforcement of Security Interest
Any Security Interest is enforced over its assets that has an Material Adverse Effect and such enforcement is not set aside within 30 days or compulsory enforcement is stayed within 30 days.
Page 88
 
28.9 Creditors' process
Any of the Obligors enters into or proposes to enter into an out-ofcourt settlement or similar agreement for the benefit of its creditors in order to avoid insolvency proceedings or similar proceedings.
28.10 Cessation of business
An Obligor ceases, or threatens to cease, to carry on all or a material part of its business except as a result of any disposal allowed under this Agreement.
28.11 Enforceability and repudiation
28.12 Loan to Value
If the Loan to Value for a Test Period (as defined in Schedule 7 () for the Logistics Fund Group taken as a whole (based upon a calculation of all real estate properties which are owned by members of the Logistics Fund Group) is equal to or greater than 75 per cent. unless any such breach is cured to the reasonable satisfaction of the Facility Agent within ten (10) Business Days from receipt of a written demand from the Facility Agent pursuant to Schedule 7 ().
Financial Covenants)
Financial Covenants
28.13 Expropriation/Forfeiture
Page 89
 
28.14 Litigation
In respect of any Obligor, there shall occur any litigation, arbitration, administrative, regulatory or other proceedings or enquiry concerning or arising in consequence of any of the Acquisition Documents or the Finance Documents or the implementation of any matter or transaction provided for in the Acquisition Documents or the Finance Documents and the same has or would be reasonably likely to have the effect of preventing or prohibiting the registration and perfection of any Security Interests created pursuant to the Security Documents or otherwise the enforcement of the Security Documents and which has an Material Adverse Effect unless the situation is capable of remedy and the relevant Obligor has remedied the situation so that no Material Adverse Effect exists within ten (10) Business Days from receipt of a written demand from the Facility Agent.
28.15 Properties and Buildings
There occurs a loss affecting the Properties and/or the Buildings which has an Material Adverse Effect unless the relevant Obligor has cured the situation so that no Material Adverse Effect exists within a period of ten (10) Business Days from a formal notice of the loss by such Obligor to the Facility Agent. For the purposes of this Clause only, a loss affecting the Properties and/or the Buildings shall not be considered to have an Material Adverse Effect if Credit Support (in form and content satisfactory to the Facility Agent) is provided.
28.16 Hedging
and the events described in this Clause 28.16(a) are not remedied within ten Business Days from receipt of a written demand from the Facility Agent.
28.17 Material Adverse Effect
In respect of an Obligor, the occurrence of any event not otherwise specified in this Clause 28 () which has a Material Adverse Effect, unless the relevant Obligor has cured (or procured the curing of) the situation so that no Material Adverse Effect exists within a period of ten (10) Business Days from receipt of a written notice from the Facility Agent.
Trigger Events and Events of Default
Page 90
 
28.18 Subordination of Intra-Group Loans
The occurrence of a material breach by an Obligor which is party to the Deed of Subordination and which has an Obligor Material Adverse Effect, unless the relevant Obligor has cured (or procured the curing of) the situation so that no Material Adverse Effect exists within a period of ten (10) Business Days from receipt of a written notice from the Facility Agent.
28.19 Trigger Events and Mandatory Prepayment
If, in respect of an Obligor, there occurs any of the Trigger Events specified in:
which event is not remedied or waived to the satisfaction of the Facility Agent within any applicable grace period specified in such Clause, the Facility Agent may for so long as that Trigger Event is outstanding (and shall if so instructed by the Majority Lenders) send the relevant Obligor a notice requiring that a mandatory prepayment be made in accordance with Clause 11.3(a) ().
Mandatory Prepayment following the occurrence of certain Trigger Events
28.20 Events of Default
Page 91
 
28.21 Notice of Event of Default
28.22 Clean-Up Date
Page 92
 
will be deemed not to be a breach of representations, warranties or a breach of covenant or Trigger Event (as the case may be) in respect of the relevant Additional Obligor or Additional Property (as applicable) if it would have been (if it were not for this provision) a breach of representation or warranty or a breach of covenant or a Trigger Event only by reason of circumstances existing on the date of accession of the relevant Additional Obligor to this Agreement and relating exclusively to the relevant Additional Property or Additional Obligor if and for so long as the circumstances giving rise to the relevant breach of representation or warranty or breach of covenant or Trigger Event:
provided that if the relevant circumstances are continuing after the Clean-Up Date there shall be a breach of representation or warranty or breach of covenant or Trigger Event, as the case may be.
29. SECURITY
29.1 Administration of the Security
Each Obligor acknowledges and agrees for the benefit of the Finance Parties to be bound by the Security Administration Principles contained in Schedule 10 (). Each Party to this Agreement further agrees to be bound by Schedule 9 () where applicable to it and its assets (in addition to those provisions in this Agreement relating to security) in order to implement the same and to ensure the perfection of any and all security that is secured pursuant to the Finance Documents.
Security Administration Principles
Security Principles
29.2 Contradiction
If any of the Security Principles contained in Schedule 9 () are in contradiction with any provision of any Security Document, the provision of the Security Document shall prevail. Clause 1.3 () shall apply.
Security Principles
Corporate benefit restrictions
Page 93
 
29.3 Security Documents and registrations
Each Obligor which has entered into a Security Document shall, at its own expense, take whatever action the Security Agent may (in the case of Clause 29.3(a) and (b) acting reasonably and subject, without limitation, to Clause 1.6 of Schedule 9 () in relation to registration and equivalent costs) require for:
Security Principles
29.4 Loans that are assigned or novated
29.5 Pledge or assignment of a Lease Document
29.6 Acquisition Facility
Page 94
 
29.7 ShareCo as a Term Borrower
Page 95
 
as agreed with the Facility Agent.
save that the relevant ShareCo and/or the AMB Agent on its behalf may enter into good faith discussions with the Facility Agent in relation to the necessity or otherwise of some or all of the requirements in this Clause 29.7 () (including, without limitation, the necessity for the security over the Shares owned in PropCo).
ShareCo as a Term Borrower
29.8 Propco as a Term Borrower
Page 96
 
as agreed with the Facility Agent.
Page 97
 
29.9 Security Interests for the Increased Gebude Loan Amount
29.10 Cross-collateralisation by Country of Term Loans
Page 98
 
29.11 France
Page 99
 
29.12 Germany
Page 100
 
to the extent that enforcement under that Guarantee and/or indemnity would cause:
(d) The restriction on enforcement pursuant to this Clause 29.12 () shall not apply:
Germany
If, however, the relevant assets are essential for its business of the German Guarantor, a sale-and-lease back shall be carried out. Furthermore, it shall take any other measures (including, without limitation, set-off claims) to avoid a payment under the guarantee and/or indemnity causing the net assets of the relevant German Guarantor (or, as the case may be, its general partner) to be reduced below the amount of its (or, as the case may be, its general partner's) registered share capital which is protected by sections 30 and 31 of the German Limited Liability Companies Act (GmbHG).
Page 101
 
29.13 Spain
29.14 The Netherlands
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Clause 29.14 the guarantee, obligation, liability, undertaking and other obligations of any Dutch Obligor expressed to be assumed in this Agreement, and/or in any other Finance Document shall be deemed not to be assumed by such Dutch Obligor to the extent that the same would constitute unlawful financial assistance within the meaning of section 2:98(c) or 2:207(c) of the Dutch Civil Code and the provisions of this Agreement and the other Finance Documents shall be construed accordingly.
29.15 Belgium
Page 102
 
29.16 France
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Clause 29 (), the guarantee, obligation, liability, undertaking and other obligations of any French Obligor expressed to be assumed in this Agreement, and/or in any other Finance Document shall be deemed not to be assumed by such French Obligor to the extent that the same would constitute unlawful financial assistance within the meaning of section L.225-216 of the French Commercial Code and the provisions of this Agreement and the other Finance Documents shall be construed accordingly.
Security
29.17 Italy
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Clause 29 (), the guarantee, obligation, liability, undertaking and other obligations of any Italian Obligor expressed to be assumed in this Agreement, and/or in any other Finance Document shall be deemed not to be assumed by such Italian Obligor to the extent that the same would constitute unlawful financial assistance within the meaning of section 2358 of the Italian Civil Code and the provisions of this Agreement and the other Finance Documents shall be construed accordingly.
Security
29.18 England and Wales
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Clause 29 (), the guarantee, obligation, liability, undertaking and other obligations of any England and Wales Obligor expressed to be assumed in this Agreement, and/or in any other Finance Document shall be deemed not to be assumed by such England and Wales Obligor to the extent that the same would constitute unlawful financial assistance within the meaning of sections 151 to 158 (inclusive) of the Companies Act 1986 and the provisions of this Agreement and the other Finance Documents shall be construed accordingly.
Security
Page 103
 
30. SUBSTITUTION
30.1 Substitution of Property
Page 104
 
30.2 Substitution of Obligor
Page 105
 
30.3 Registration costs
Upon substitution of any Property in accordance with this Clause 30 (), the release documents to release the mortgage on the relevant Property to be substituted and the Security Documents to mortgage the substituted Property shall, to the extent legally possible, be drafted in such a away to:
Substitution
31. EVIDENCE AND CALCULATIONS
31.1 Accounts
Accounts maintained by a Finance Party in connection with this Agreement are prima facie evidence of the matters to which they relate for the purpose of any litigation or arbitration proceedings.
31.2 Certificates and determinations
Any certification or determination by a Finance Party of a rate or amount under the Finance Documents shall set out the basis of the calculation in reasonable detail and will be, in the absence of manifest error, conclusive evidence of the matters to which it relates.
31.3 Calculations
Any interest or fee accruing under this Agreement accrues from day to day and is calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed and a year of 360 days or otherwise, depending on what the Facility Agent determines is market practice.
32. FEES
32.1 Utilisation Fee
32.2 Commitment fee
Each Borrower shall pay to the Facility Agent for each Lender a commitment fee computed at the rate and in the manner specified in the Fee Letter.
Page 106
 
33. INDEMNITIES AND BREAK COSTS
33.1 Currency indemnity
33.2 Other indemnities
Page 107
 
33.3 Break Costs
34. EXPENSES
34.1 Initial costs
The Borrowers shall pay to each Agent the amount of all costs and expenses (including legal fees up to any agreed cap) reasonably incurred by it in connection with the negotiation, preparation, printing and entry into of the Finance Documents.
34.2 Subsequent costs
The Borrower shall pay to each Agent the amount of all costs and expenses (including legal fees) reasonably incurred by it in connection with:
Page 108
 
34.3 Enforcement costs
The Borrower shall pay to each Finance Party the amount of all costs and expenses (including legal fees) incurred by it in connection with:
35. AMENDMENTS AND WAIVERS
35.1 Procedure
35.2 Exceptions
Page 109
 
35.3 Change to the Term Margin
The Parties acknowledge that the Term Margin is fixed for a period of twelve months ending on the anniversary of the date of this Agreement and may be amended pursuant to Clause 7 () after the expiry of each twelve month period in respect of utilisations of the Term Facility made after (but not before) such amendment.
Term Facility
35.4 Change of currency
If a change in any currency of a country occurs (including where there is more than one currency or currency unit recognised at the same time as the lawful currency of a country), the Finance Documents will be amended to the extent the Facility Agent (acting reasonably and after consultation with the Borrower) determines is necessary to reflect the change.
35.5 Waivers and remedies cumulative
The rights of each Finance Party under the Finance Documents:
Delay in the exercise or non-exercise of any right is not a waiver of that right.
36. CHANGES TO THE PARTIES
36.1 Accession of an Obligor
Any accession of an Obligor shall comply with Clause 30.2 ().
Substitution of Obligor
36.2 Assignments and transfers by Lenders
Page 110
 
36.3 Transfer certificates
Page 111
 
Page 112
 
36.4 Limitation of responsibility of Existing Lender and Existing Obligor
Page 113
 
36.5 Costs resulting from a change of Lender or Facility Office
If:
then the Obligor need only pay that Tax Payment or Increased Cost to the same extent that it would have been obliged to if no assignment, transfer or change had occurred.
37. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
Page 114
 
38. SET-OFF
At any time after an Event of Default is continuing in relation to an Obligor, a Finance Party may set off any matured obligation owed to it by that Obligor under the Finance Documents (to the extent beneficially owned by that Finance Party) against any matured obligation owed by that Finance Party to that Obligor under the Finance Documents, regardless of the place of payment, booking branch or currency of either obligation. If the obligations are in different currencies, the Finance Party may convert either obligation at a market rate of exchange in its usual course of business for the purpose of the set-off. That Finance Party shall promptly notify the relevant Obligor of the effecting of any such set-off.
39. SEVERABILITY
If a term of a Finance Document is or becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect under any jurisdiction, that will not affect:
40. COUNTERPARTS
Each Finance Document may be executed in any number of counterparts. This has the same effect as if the signatures on the counterparts were on a single copy of the Finance Document.
41. NOTICES
41.1 In writing
41.2 Contact details
Page 115
 
Page 116
 
41.3 Effectiveness
41.4 Obligors
42. LANGUAGE
Page 117
 
43. GOVERNING LAW
44. ENFORCEMENT
44.1 Jurisdiction
44.2 Service of process
has been entered into on the date stated at the beginning of this Agreement.
THIS AGREEMENT
Page 118
 
1.
No duplication of documents or evidence comprising a condition precedent
1. The Parties acknowledge that if a document or evidence satisfying a condition precedent has been provided previously to the relevant Party in satisfaction of:
such document or evidence need not be provided again unless the circumstances have changed such that the document or evidence satisfying a condition precedent is inaccurate or misleading.
Unless previously provided in accordance with Section 1 of this Schedule.
A. The Obligors
1. Except in regards to AMB Property, L.P. and AMB European Investments LLC, a copy of the constitutional documents of each Obligor (and, where available, a copy of an up to date extract from the commercial register for each Obligor) being in each case dated no more than 14 days before the first Initial Closing Date under this Agreement. It is acknowledged that no commercial register extract is available in respect of the Fund Obligors.
2. A specimen of the signature of each person authorised on behalf of each Obligor to enter into any Finance Document or to sign or send any document or notice in connection with any Finance Documents to which it is a party.
3. Except in regards to AMB Property, L.P. and AMB European Investments LLC, a copy of the supervisory board resolution (or equivalent) of each Obligor:
4. A certificate or certification of an authorised signatory of each Obligor certifying that each copy document referred to in:
Page 131
 
5. Evidence reasonably required by the Facility Agent for the purpose of any know your customer requirements.
6. Evidence that the agent of the Obligors (other than any incorporated in England and Wales) under the Finance Documents for service of process in England has accepted its appointment.
7. A Group Structure Chart.
8. In relation to each Belgian Obligor (and if applicable under Belgian law), a copy of a shareholders resolution approving the limitations set out in Clause 26.9 () and any other clause of any Finance Document pertaining to a change of control and evidence of filing of such a resolution with the clerk of a competent commercial court in accordance with clause 556 of the Belgian Company Code.
Control and Change of control
9. In relation to each Spanish Obligor, a copy of the relevant PE-1 or PE-3 forms, according to ruling 6/2000 dated 31 October of the Central Bank of Spain on foreign loans, credits and set-offs, filed with the Oficina de Balanza de Pagos of the Bank of Spain, with the financial transaction number (granted by such institution.
numero de operacin financiera or N.O.F.)
B. Documents to be delivered
10. A duly executed original of the Facilities Agreement.
11. A duly executed original of the Fee Letter.
12. A duly executed original of the Deed of Subordination.
13. Executed copies of any Reliance Letter (if any) provided at the option of the AMB Agent.
14. A duly executed original of the Acquisition Loan Guarantee.
C. Opinions
15. A signed legal opinion of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, English legal advisers to the Facility Agent addressed to the Finance Parties.
16. A signed legal opinion of legal advisers to the Obligors addressed to the Finance Parties in relation to the capacity and authority of each Obligor to enter into the Finance Documents to which it is a party.
D. Borrowers
17. For each Acquisition Loan, see Part C () of this Schedule.
Acquisition Loan
Page 132
 
18. For each Term Loan, see Part D () of this Schedule.
Term Loan
Page 133
 
Unless previously provided in accordance with Section 1 of this Schedule.
A. Additional Obligors
If an Acquisition Loan is to be utilised, guaranteed or secured by an Additional Obligor who is not a Party to this Agreement in the capacity that it will be undertaking in regard to that Acquisition Loan, each such Additional Obligor shall provide (unless previously provided in accordance with Section 1 of this Schedule):
1. A copy of the constitutional documents of each Additional Obligor (and, where available, a copy of an up to date extract from the commercial register for each Additional Obligor) being in each case dated no more than 14 days before the Closing Date of the relevant Acquisition Loan. It is acknowledged that no commercial register extract is available in respect of the Fund Obligors.
2. A specimen of the signature of each person authorised on behalf of each Additional Obligor to enter into any Finance Document or to sign or send any document or notice in connection with any Finance Documents to which it is a party.
3. A copy of supervisory board resolution or equivalent (if any) of each Additional Obligor:
4. A certificate or certification of an authorised signatory of each Obligor certifying that each copy document referred to in:
5. Evidence reasonably required by the Facility Agent for the purpose of any know your customer requirements.
6. Evidence that the agent of the Additional Obligors (other than any incorporated in England and Wales) under the Finance Documents for service of process in England has accepted its appointment.
7. In relation to each Belgian Obligor that is an Additional Obligor (and if applicable under Belgian law), a copy of a shareholders resolution approving Clause 26.9 () and any other clause of any Finance Document pertaining to a change of control and
Control and Change of Control
Page 134
 
evidence of filing of such a resolution with the clerk of a competent commercial court in accordance with clause 556 of the Belgian Company Code.
8. In relation to each Spanish Obligor:
9. In relation to a French Obligor, a completed and signed TEG Letter.
10. A legal opinion of the legal advisers to the Obligors addressed to the Finance Parties in relation to the capacity and authority of the relevant Additional Obligor to enter into the Finance Documents to which it is a party.
11. Sufficient evidence of the valid accession of the Additional Obligor to this Agreement and the Finance Documents (including, but not limited to, the Deed of Subordination where applicable) as an Acquisition Borrower (including, but not limited to, where an Obligor is acceding to this Agreement and the Finance Documents in a different capacity from that which it otherwise holds pursuant to this Agreement).
B. Approval
12. Approval of the applicable Credit Committee of each Lender carried out on a desktop basis.
13. A certificate of the relevant Acquisition Borrower confirming that, so far as it is aware, the Acquisition which will be financed by the relevant Acquisition Loan is permitted by the constitutional documents of that Acquisition Borrower. This certification may be incorporated into the certificate referred to in paragraph 4 of Part C () of this Schedule.
Acquisition Loan
C. Property
In relation to each Property to be financed by that Acquisition Loan:
14. A copy of the executed Acquisition Documents.
15. A copy of any other consents, permissions, waivers and approvals required under the Acquisition Document have been received by the notary.
16. Evidence that any due notice under an Acquisition Document has been received by the purchaser under the Acquisition.
17. A copy of the complete rent-roll in relation to its rental income including details of tenants, lease expiry dates and rents.
Page 135
 
18. A copy of cash-flow projections (in Argus extract or Excel form) that substantiate the purchase price of the Property.
19. Evidence that an environmental assessment report has been commissioned by a firm of appraisers acceptable to the Facility Agent (acting reasonably).
20. Evidence that a valuation and appraisal report has been commissioned by the vendor, in a form acceptable to the Facility Agent (acting reasonably).
21. A description of the Property to the satisfaction of the Facility Agent.
22. Evidence to the satisfaction of the Facility Agent that an acceptable property management contract will be in effect in relation to the Property (or that an Affiliate of AMB acceptable to the Facility Agent has been appointed to provide asset and property management services).
D. Insurance
23. Evidence that insurance cover is in force in respect of the relevant Property and that the necessary premia have been paid or will be paid in accordance with the usual procedures applicable to any group insurance policy under which the relevant Property is insured.
E. Documents to be delivered
24. Executed copies of any Reliance Letter (if any) is provided at the option of the AMB Agent.
25. A duly completed Request for the relevant Loan.
Page 136
 
Unless previously provided in accordance with Section 1 of this Schedule.
A. Additional Obligors
If a Term Loan is to be utilised, guaranteed or secured by an Additional Obligor who is not a Party to this Agreement in the capacity that it will be undertaking in regard to that Term Loan, each such Additional Obligor shall provide (unless previously provided in accordance with Section 1 of this Schedule):
1. A copy of the constitutional documents of each Additional Obligor (and, where available, a copy of an up to date extract from the commercial register for each Additional Obligor) being in each case dated no more than 14 days before the Closing Date of the relevant Term Loan. It is acknowledged that no commercial register extract is available in respect of the Fund Obligors.
2. A specimen of the signature of each person authorised on behalf of each Additional Obligor to enter into any Finance Document or to sign or send any document or notice in connection with any Finance Documents to which it is a party.
3. A copy of supervisory board resolution or equivalent (if any) of each Additional Obligor:
4. A certificate or certification of an authorised signatory of each Obligor certifying that each copy document referred to in:
5. Evidence reasonably required by the Facility Agent for the purpose of any know your customer requirements.
6. Evidence that the agent of the Additional Obligors (other than any incorporated in England and Wales) under the Finance Documents for service of process in England has accepted its appointment.
7. In relation to each Belgian Obligor that is an Additional Obligor (and if applicable under Belgian law), a copy of a shareholders resolution approving Clause 26.9 () and any other clause of any Finance Document pertaining to a change of control and evidence of filing of such a resolution with the clerk of a competent commercial court in accordance with clause 556 of the Belgian Company Code.
Control and Change of Control
Page 137
 
8. In relation to each Spanish Obligor:
9. In relation to a French Obligor, a completed and signed TEG Letter.
10. A legal opinion of the legal advisers to the Obligors addressed to the Finance Parties in relation to the capacity and authority of the relevant Additional Obligor to enter into the Finance Documents to which it is a party.
11. Sufficient evidence of the valid accession of the Additional Obligor to this Agreement and the Finance Documents (including, but not limited to, the Deed of Subordination where applicable) as a Term Borrower as the case may be (including, but not limited to, where an Obligor is acceding to this Agreement and the Finance Documents in a different capacity from that which it otherwise holds pursuant to this Agreement).
B. Approval
12. Approval of the applicable Credit Committee of each Lender carried out on a desktop basis.
13. A certificate of the relevant Term Borrower confirming that, so far as it is aware, the Acquisition which will be financed by the relevant Term Loan is permitted by the constitutional documents of that Term Borrower. This certification may be incorporated into the certificate referred to in paragraph 4 of Part D () of this Schedule.
Term Loans
C. Reports
14. Real estate appraisal report of the relevant Property in a form acceptable to the Facility Agent (acting reasonably) that, inter alia, evidences that the Property meets modern standards, is well located and is satisfactorily leased.
15. Environmental assessment report of the relevant Property from a firm of environment experts, and in a form, acceptable to the Facility Agent (acting reasonably).
D. Insurance
16. Evidence that insurance cover in force in respect of each Property:
Page 138
 
E. Documents to be delivered
17. Duly executed copies of the Finance Documents.
18. A duly executed copy of any other document or contract required by the Facility Agent (acting reasonably).
19. In the case of an increase to the Term Facility maximum aggregate principal amount, the entry into a side-letter between the Lender, the AMB Agent, the Acquisition Loan Guarantor, the Carve-out Indemnifier and the Facility Agent and Security Agent regarding an increase in the Total Commitments.
20. Executed copies of any Reliance Letter (if any) provided at the option of the AMB Agent.
F. Security
21. In the case of a ShareCo as a Term Borrower:
Page 139
 
22. In the case of a PropCo as a Term Borrower:
Page 140
 
Page 141
 
G. Properties
In relation to each Property:
23. A copy of the executed Acquisition Document.
24. A copy of other consents, permissions, waivers and approvals required under the Acquisition Document have been received by the notary (or equivalent).
25. Evidence that any due notice under an Acquisition Document has been received by the purchaser of the Acquisition.
26. Executed copies of any Lease Document relating to the Property which must be in a form satisfactory to the Lender acting reasonably (including any guarantees given in respect of the tenants obligations under any such Lease Document).
27. Evidence to the satisfaction of the Facility Agent (acting reasonably) that an acceptable property management contract is in effect in relation to the Property (or that an Affiliate of AMB Property, L.P. or the Logistics Fund acceptable to the Facility Agent (acting reasonably) has been appointed to provide asset and property management services).
28. A copy of the complete rent-roll including tenants, expiry dates and rents.
29. A copy of cash-flow projections, in Argus extract or Excel form, that substantiate the purchase price.
30. A description and registration of the Property to the satisfaction of the Facility Agent (acting reasonably).
31. An analysis of the tenants to the satisfaction of the Facility Agent (acting reasonably).
32. Completion of any necessary due diligence, including tax and legal due diligence to the satisfaction of the Facility Agent (acting reasonably).
33. Completion of a satisfactory site-visit to the Property by or on behalf of the Lenders.
34. In relation to any German Security, confirmation of the proportion of the Properties by Value that consist of Heritable Building Rights.
Unless previously provided in accordance with Section 1 of this Schedule.
A. The Fund
1. The operating agreement of the Logistics Fund and any other information reasonably requested by the Lender in relation to the structure of the Logistics Fund.
2. The structure and management of the Fund being in a form that is acceptable to the Facility Agent, acting reasonably.
Page 142
 
3. The completion of any necessary due diligence, including tax and legal due diligence, to the satisfaction of the Facility Agent (acting reasonably).
B. Transfer
4. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, a Transfer Certificate(s) evidencing the assignment or novation, as the case may be, by the Original AMB Party of its rights and obligations under the Finance Documents to the Logistics Fund, including, but not limited to, the Original AMB Party's rights and obligations in accordance with the indemnity provided by it under Clause 20.2(b) of this Agreement, any and all Hedging Arrangements to which it is a counterparty.
C. Discharge
5. Release of the AMB Property, L.P. and the Original AMB Party from all liabilities and obligations under this Agreement, including, but not limited to, AMB Property, L.P.'s obligations as the Acquisition Loan Guarantor and the Carve-out Indemnifier and the Original AMB Party's obligations as the AMB Agent.
6. If the Logistics Fund is borrowing under the Facility, the execution of the Deed of Subordination, to the satisfaction of the Facility Agent.
Page 143
 
Unless previously provided in accordance with Section 1 of this Schedule.
1. A copy of the constitutional documents of each Additional Obligor (and, where available, a copy of an up to date extract from the commercial register for each Additional Obligor) being in each case dated no more than 14 days before the later of:
It is acknowledged that no commercial register extract is available in respect of the Fund Parties.
2. A specimen of the signature of each person authorised on behalf of each Additional Obligor to enter into any Finance Document or to sign or send any document or notice in connection with any Finance Documents to which it is a party.
3. A copy of supervisory board resolution or equivalent (if any) of each Additional Obligor:
4. A certificate or certification of an authorised signatory of each Obligor certifying that each copy document referred to in:
5. Evidence reasonably required by the Facility Agent for the purpose of any know your customer requirements.
6. Evidence that the agent of the Additional Obligors (other than any incorporated in England and Wales) under the Finance Documents for service of process in England has accepted its appointment.
7. In relation to each Belgian Obligor that is an Additional Obligor (and if applicable under Belgian law), a copy of a shareholders resolution approving Clause 26.9 () and any other clause of any Finance Document pertaining to a change of control and
Control and Change of Control
Page 144
 
evidence of filing of such a resolution with the clerk of a competent commercial court in accordance with clause 556 of the Belgian Company Code.
8. In relation to each Spanish Obligor:
9. A legal opinion of the legal advisers to the Obligors addressed to the Finance Parties in relation to the capacity and authority of the relevant Additional Obligor to enter into the Finance Documents to which it is a party.
10. Sufficient evidence of the valid accession of the Additional Obligor to this Agreement and the Finance Documents (including, but not limited to, the Deed of Subordination where applicable) as an Acquisition Borrower, Term Borrower, Guarantor, PropCo or ShareCo as the case may be (including, but not limited to, where an Obligor is acceding to this Agreement and the Finance Documents in a different capacity from that which it otherwise holds pursuant to this Agreement).
 
1.
General
2.
For a Lender lending from a Facility Office in the U.K.
Page 147
 
Each Lender shall promptly notify the Facility Agent of any change to the information supplied to it under this Clause 2(e).
Page 148
 
Page 149
 
1.
DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this Schedule 7 (), and to the extent not defined in Clause 1 () of this Agreement, the following additional definitions shall apply:
Financial Covenants
Interpretation
means:
Accounting Date
except, in each such case, as adjusted (if applicable and at the option of the AMB Agent) to make sure that those dates fall on the same day of the week or otherwise with the consent of the Facility Agent and the AMB Agent.
means:
Accounting Period
means the accounting principles, standards, conventions and practices, from time to time and at any time, generally accepted as part of the accounting standard applicable in Luxembourg (or such other generally accepted accounting principles that may be used by the Logistics Fund and which are acceptable to the Facility Agent acting reasonably) in effect from time to time and commonly and consistently applied in practice.
Accounting Principles
means, in relation to an Acquisition Loan and with respect to a Projected Test Period, a calculation of the projected interest cover ratio estimated by the AMB Agent and approved by the Facility Agent in its reasonable discretion which will apply to such Projected Test Period, using the ratio of:
Acquisition Loan Interest Cover Ratio
Page 150
 
means, for any Projected Test Period and in respect of an Acquisition Loan, the aggregate of all interest charges which will fall due to be paid by the relevant Acquisition Loan Borrower in respect of that Acquisition Loan during such Projected Test Period.
Acquisition Loan Projected Interest Charges
means an act or arrangement by a member of the Parent Group or the Logistics Fund Group that would cure any breach of any financial covenant in accordance with this Schedule including, but not limited to:
Cure Act
means, with respect to a person, at the relevant time of computation thereof, the sum of all of the following (without duplication):
Financial Indebtedness
Page 151
 
means each annual accounting period ending on 31 December in each year.
Financial Year
means, for any Historic Test Period, the aggregate of all interest charges, principal repayments, guarantee payments termination sums and other amounts which have fallen due to be paid by any Fund Logistics Group member in respect of any Financial Indebtedness due to third parties during such Historic Test Period but excluding lump sum amounts due at maturity.
Fund Historic Debt Service
means, in relation to a relevant Historic Test Period, the ratio of:
Fund Historic Debt Service Cover Ratio
means, in respect of the Logistics Fund Group, the aggregate principal amount of all Financial Indebtedness incurred by members of the Logistics Fund Group to third parties expressed as a percentage to the aggregate value of all Fund Properties (determined in a manner consistent with the operating documents of the Logistics Fund and acceptable to the Facility Agent (acting reasonably)) taken together with the value of all other assets (including, without limitation, cash) of the Logistics Fund Group at the relevant time determined in accordance with Accounting Principles and in a manner consistent with the operating documents of the Logistics Fund.
Fund Loan to Value
means, for any Projected Test Period, the aggregate of all interest charges, principal repayments, guarantee payments, termination sums and other amounts which are estimated to fall due to be paid by any Fund Logistics Group member in respect of any Financial Indebtedness due to third parties during such Projected Test Period but excluding lump sum amounts due at maturity.
Fund Projected Debt Service
means, in relation to a Projected Test Period, a calculation of the projected Logistics Fund debt service cover ratio estimated by the AMB Agent and approved by the Facility Agent in its reasonable discretion which will apply to such Projected Test Period, using the ratio of:
Fund Projected Debt Service Cover Ratio
Page 152
 
means, at any relevant time, all property and buildings (including, without limitation, the Properties) then owned by any member of the Logistics Fund Group, howsoever financed.
Fund Properties
means:
Historic Test Period
means, in respect of the Logistics Fund Group, in each case calculated on a consolidated basis at the end of the Logistics Fund Group's Financial Year, the sum of:
Net Worth
means any loan made by any member of the Parent Group that is not a member of the Logistics Fund Group and shown as a shareholder loan in the balance sheet of the Logistics Fund Group delivered in respect of the relevant Financial Year.
Parent Group Shareholder Loan
means, for any Historic Test Period, the aggregate of all interest charges, principal repayments, guarantee payments, termination sums and other amounts which have fallen due to be paid by any Fund Logistics Group member in respect of Financial Indebtedness pursuant to the Finance Documents during such Historic Test Period but excluding lump sum amounts due at maturity.
Portfolio Historic Debt Service
Page 153
 
means, in relation to a relevant Historic Test Period, the ratio of:
Portfolio Historic Debt Service Cover Ratio
means, for any Projected Test Period, the aggregate of all interest charges, principal repayments, guarantee payments termination sums and other amounts which will fall due to be paid or will become payable by any Fund Logistics Group member in respect of Financial Indebtedness pursuant to the Finance Documents during such Projected Test Period but excluding lump sum amounts due at maturity.
Portfolio Projected Debt Service
means, in relation to a Projected Test Period, a calculation of the projected portfolio properties debt service cover ratio estimated by the AMB Agent and approved by the Facility Agent in its reasonable discretion which will apply to such Projected Test Period, using the ratio of:
Portfolio Projected Debt Service Cover Ratio
means, at any relevant time, all Properties owned or to be owned (as applicable) by any member of the Logistics Fund Group, and which, as the context may require, have been or will be financed by the Facilities.
Portfolio Properties
means:
Projected Test Period
Page 154
 
means:
Testing Date
Page 155
 
2.
BASIS OF CALCULATIONS
2.1 No item shall be deducted or credited more than once in any calculation.
All the terms defined in paragraph 1 of this Schedule are to be determined on a consolidated basis and in accordance with the Accounting Principles and terminology applied by the Borrowers in accordance with this Schedule, consistently applied.
2.2
2.3 The financial covenant(s) set out in:
2.4 Save as otherwise provided in this Schedule, to the extent that the relevant Compliance Certificate when delivered indicates that as at any Testing Date any calculation is breached, the Borrower(s) shall be entitled to calculate or recalculate such covenant ten Business Days after the date of the relevant Compliance Certificate with the benefit of any Cure Act, provided that:
and so that if such Cure Act is made or the Facility Agent is satisfied (acting reasonably) that it will be made no breach of any calculation shall arise or be deemed to have arisen.
2.5 The AMB Agent shall on behalf of the Borrowers shall provide the Facility Agent with the Compliance Certificate pursuant to Clause 24.7 () within the date specified therein together with all necessary information and in reasonable detail as may be reasonably requested by the Facility Agent to enable it to confirm compliance with the financial covenants set out in this Schedule 7 () as at the relevant Test Date.
Compliance Certificate
Financial Covenants
3.
COVENANTS
3.1
Debt Service Cover
Page 156
 
3.2
Interest Cover Ratio
Page 157
 
3.3
Fund Loan to Value
3.4
Minimum Net Worth
3.5
AMB Property, L.P. Total Liabilities to Total Asset Value
Prior to the Logistics Fund Accession Date, AMB Property, L.P. shall not permit the ratio of Total Liabilities to Total Asset Value of AMB Property, L.P. to exceed 0.65:1 at any time (as Total Liabilities and Total Asset Value are defined and calculated in accordance with the AMB Property L.P, Loan).
Page 158
 
1. Each Party to this Agreement agrees to abide by the following Security Principles where applicable to it and its assets (in addition to those provisions in this Agreement relating to security) in order to ensure the perfection of any and all security that is secured pursuant to the Finance Documents.
1.1 Each form of security pursuant to any Security Document shall, to the extent legally possible, but subject to the principles set out below, will be taken on a first priority perfected basis over the Shares (to the extent required in order to achieve effective country by country cross-collateralisation in the case of the French Security only, as described in Clause 29.11 ()), Lease Documents, Property and insurance policies (or part thereof relating to the relevant Property).
France
1.2 Where an Obligor pledges Shares, the Security Document will (subject to agreed exceptions) be governed by the law of the jurisdiction of incorporation of the company whose Shares are being pledged and not by the law of the jurisdiction of incorporation of the pledgor.
1.3 All security shall (unless and to the extent local law considerations require otherwise) be given in favour of the Security Agent and not other Finance Parties individually. Parallel Obligation provisions will be used where necessary in accordance with Clause 21 ().
Parallel Debt
1.4 All upstream and cross-stream guarantees may be limited by corporate benefit restrictions, fraudulent preference restrictions, retention of title claims and may be limited by financial assistance restrictions. Additionally guarantees will not be taken in these circumstances where material issues of directors' personal liability or breach of fiduciary duty or criminal liability arise (assuming Obligors use reasonable endeavours to overcome the same and no limitation wording would enable a guarantee of all or any part of the Facilities to be taken notwithstanding those circumstances or issues).
1.5 The granting of guarantees, perfection of security, when required, and other legal formalities will be completed as soon as practicable and, in any event, within the time periods specified in the Finance Documents therefore or (if earlier or to the extent no such time periods are specified in the Finance Documents) within the time periods specified by applicable law in order to ensure due perfection. The perfection of security granted will not be required if it would have a material adverse effect on the ability of the relevant Obligor to conduct its operations and business in the ordinary course as otherwise permitted by the Finance Documents.
1.6 In any jurisdiction where the level of fees, taxes or duties payable to register security or other credit support over or in respect of a Property (and any ancillary assets) is dependent on the amount that is registered or otherwise recorded as secured in respect of that Property this secured amount shall be limited (unless otherwise agreed by the AMB Agent and the Facility Agent), to 10 per cent. of the Loan advanced in respect of that Property (plus in any applicable jurisdiction an amount in respect of (or equivalent costs) on 10 per cent. of the relevant Loan Amount) and provided always that a notary (or equivalent) holds to the Lenders order a power of attorney (or equivalent) giving the
accessories
Page 159
 
notary (or equivalent) the right to register the balance of the Loan after the occurrence of (and during the subsistence of) an Event of Default in relation to the relevant Property, PropCo or ShareCo (as the case may be) in accordance with the principles in this Facility Agreement.
1.7 All security (other than any share security over its Obligor subsidiaries) shall be governed by the law of and secure assets located in the jurisdiction of incorporation of that Obligor.
1.8 The Parties acknowledge that:
1.9 The following principles will be reflected in the terms of any security taken as part of this transaction:
that will permit the relevant Obligor to deal with claims and receive proceeds from any insurer of Group assets until such time as an Event of Default has occurred and notice of enforcement has been given by the Security Agent following an Event of Default having occurred and being continuing;
Page 160
 
1.10 If in a jurisdiction, security over an asset or a class of assets can be taken by way of:
1.11 Assets (other than Shares in companies that are not joint ventures and intellectual property) subject to existing third party arrangements (including, without limitation, any landlord's superior interest, transfer restrictions, pre-emption rights, permitted security interest and joint venture voting reserved matters or put and call arrangements) which prevent those assets from being charged will not be required to be subject to any security provided that the relevant Obligor uses reasonable endeavours to obtain necessary consent or release which, for the avoidance of doubt, will not require the relevant Obligor to take any action which could reasonably be expected to damage its commercial relationship with the relevant third party.
1.12 If not otherwise required by law upon complete and irrevocable satisfaction of the obligations secured by the Security Documents, the Security Agent shall promptly thereafter at the costs and expense (such costs and expenses to be reasonable) of the respective chargor release, reassign or retransfer the respective asset or class of assets including all documents deposited with the Security Agent or any nominee of the Security Agent to the charger provided that the Security Agent is reasonably satisfied that there is no risk that any amount of the obligations secured by the Security Documents paid shall be avoided or reduced by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws. If the Security Agent or any of its nominees holds physical possession of any asset such physical possession shall be transferred to the charger, subject to the same conditions. Such chargor shall accept such release, reassignment or retransfer. The Security Agent (on behalf of the Finance Parties) will release,
Page 161
 
reassign or retransfer the respective asset or class of assets to a third party if so required by mandatory law. In the event of a permitted disposal of a PropCo or ShareCo, the guarantee granted by that PropCo or ShareCo (and all security and guarantees granted by it and any of its Subsidiaries (if any)) shall be similarly released.
1.13 At any time when the total value of the aggregate security granted by the Obligors in accordance with this Agreement which can be expected to be realised in the event of an enforcement of the security exceeds 110 per cent. of the obligations that are secured, the Security Agent and/or the Finance Parties (as the case may be) shall on demand of the AMB Agent release such part of the security as the Facility Agent may in its reasonable discretion determine so as to reduce the realisable value of the security.
1.1 Each Term Borrower (or where relevant, each PropCo) shall, within 12 weeks of the date of this Agreement or within 90 days after each Utilisation of the Term Facility (as the case may be), deliver to the Security Agent in form and substance satisfactory to the Security Agent evidence of filing of all necessary Land Registry application forms in relation to:
1.2 Each Borrower (or where relevant, each PropCo) will, as soon as reasonably practicable after the date of this Agreement or after each Utilisation of the Term Facility (as the case may be), deliver to the Security Agent copies of all Land Registry receipt stamps in respect of the filing of title transfers to the Borrowers (or where relevant, each PropCo) and Land Charges for each Property.
1.3 Where it is necessary to perfect the relevant security in accordance with a Security Document as prescribed by the relevant jurisdiction, each Borrower (or where relevant, each PropCo) shall as of the day of each Utilisation of each Term Loan, deliver to the Security Agent a copy of a notarial confirmation containing the confirmation by the notary public that the notary has notarised, or has been provided with notarially certified copies of, the documents necessary for the transfer of title to the Borrower (where applicable) and contains the following conditions and confirmation by the notary public (except where otherwise agreed between the Security Agent and the AMB Agent including where this is reasonable in the context of the law or practice of a relevant jurisdiction):
Page 162
 
1.4 In relation to Land Charges of German Security, each Borrower (or where relevant, each PropCo) shall as of the day of each Utilisation of each Term Loan, deliver to the Security Agent in form and substance satisfactory to the Security Agent:
1.5 If a Borrower (or PropCo) has delivered evidence to the Security Agent of due registration of a first (or second after existing mortgages in favour of lenders of permitted existing land charges) ranking Land Charge in form and substance satisfactory to the Security Agent, then the Borrower (or PropCo) shall be deemed to have complied with its obligations in respect of that Land Charge for the purposes of Clause 29 () and this Schedule 9 ().
Security
Security Principles
1.6 Each Borrower (or PropCo) shall use all reasonable efforts to deliver to the Security Agent all authorisations and third party consents required by the Security Agent in connection with the charging and enforcement of the Land Charges over the Original Properties and Additional Properties in favour of the Security Agent.
1.1 If a Land Registry rejects or disputes any filing made by or on behalf of a Borrower (or PropCo) in respect of any Property, the Borrower (or PropCo) shall forthwith:
Page 163
 
1.1 Each Obligor which grants a Share Security undertakes that, for so long as any Term Loan which is secured by such Share Security remains outstanding, it shall:
Page 164
 
Page 165
 
Page 166
 
in the name and on behalf of the Finance Parties as .
mandataire
Page 167
 
Page 168
 
1.1 Each Party to this Agreement agrees to abide by the following Security Administration Principles where applicable in order to ensure that the security is validly held for the benefit of the Finance Parties.
1.2 The Security Agent on behalf of each of the Lenders shall be able, subject to the terms of the Deed of Subordination, to enforce the security constituted by the security documents without any restriction from either (i) the constitutional documents of the relevant Obligor or (ii) any Obligor which is or whose assets are the subject of such security document (but subject to any inalienable statutory rights which the Obligor may have to challenge such enforcement) or (iii) any shareholders of the foregoing not party to the relevant security document.
Monitoring
1.3 Neither Agent is obliged to monitor or enquire whether a Default has occurred. Neither Agent is deemed to have knowledge of the occurrence of a Default.
1.4 If an Agent:
it shall promptly notify the other Finance Parties.
Information
1.5 Each Agent shall promptly forward to the person concerned the original or a copy of any document which is delivered to that Agent by a Party for that person.
1.6 Except where a Finance Document specifically provides otherwise, neither Agent is obliged to review or check the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of any document it forwards to another Party.
1.7 Except as provided above, neither Agent has any duty:
Page 169
 
1.8 In acting as an Agent, the agency division of that Agent is treated as a separate entity from its other divisions and departments. Any information acquired by an Agent which, in its opinion, is acquired by it otherwise than in its capacity as Agent may be treated as confidential by that Agent and will not be treated as information possessed by that Agent in its capacity as such.
1.9 Neither Agent is obliged to disclose to any person any confidential information supplied to it by or on behalf of a member of the Group solely for the purpose of evaluating whether any waiver or amendment is required in respect of any term of the Finance Documents.
1.10 Each Obligor irrevocably authorises each Agent to disclose to the other Finance Parties any information which, in that Agent's opinion, is received by it in its capacity as Agent.
Indemnities
1.11 Without limiting the liability of any Obligor under the Finance Documents, each Lender shall indemnify each Agent for that Lender's pro rata share of any loss or liability incurred by an Agent in acting as an Agent (unless that Agent has been reimbursed by a Borrower under a Finance Document), except to the extent that the loss or liability is caused by that Agent's gross negligence or wilful misconduct.
1.12 If a Party owes an amount to an Agent under the Finance Documents, that Agent may after giving notice to that Party:
that Party will be regarded as having received the amount so deducted.
Compliance
1.13 Each Agent may refrain from doing anything (including disclosing any information) which might, in its opinion, constitute a breach of any law or regulation or be otherwise actionable at the suit of any person, and may do anything which, in its opinion, is necessary or desirable to comply with any law or regulation.
Resignation of an Agent
1.14 An Agent may resign and appoint any of its Affiliates.
1.15 Alternatively, an Agent may resign by giving notice to the Finance Parties and the Borrowers, in which case the Majority Lenders may appoint a successor Agent.
1.16 If no successor Agent has been appointed under Clause 1.15 of this Schedule within 60 days after notice of resignation was given, that Agent may appoint a successor Agent.
1.17 The person(s) appointing a successor Facility Agent shall obtain consent of the Borrowers (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) prior to the appointment. Any successor Facility Agent shall have an office in the U.K. All costs and expenses relating to the appointment of a successor Facility Agent shall be for the account of the Finance Parties.
Page 170
 
1.18 The resignation of a Facility Agent and the appointment of any successor Facility Agent will both become effective only when the successor Agent notifies all the Parties that it accepts its appointment as Facility Agent. On giving the notification, the successor Facility Agent will succeed to the position of the Facility Agent and the term will mean the successor Facility Agent.
Facility Agent
1.19 The resignation of the Security Agent and the appointment of any successor Security Agent will both become effective only when the following conditions have been satisfied:
1.20 each Finance Party (other than the Security Agent) confirms to the Facility Agent that it is satisfied with the credit rating of the proposed successor Security Agent.
1.21 On satisfaction of the above conditions, the successor Security Agent will succeed to the position of the Security Agent and the term Security Agent will mean the successor. All security previously held by the retiring Security Agent and all rights and obligations related to such security shall be transferred or assigned (as the case may be) to the successor Security Agent at the costs of the Finance Parties. Where applicable, successor the Security Agent shall become the sole creditor of any Parallel Debt Obligations.
1.22 The retiring Agent shall, at its own cost, make available to the successor Agent such documents and records and provide such assistance as the successor Agent may reasonably request for the purposes of performing its functions as the Agent under the Finance Documents.
1.23 Upon its resignation becoming effective, this Clause will continue to benefit the retiring Agent in respect of any action taken or not taken by it in connection with the Finance Documents while it was an Agent, and, subject to Clause 1.19 of this Schedule, it will have no further obligations under any Finance Document.
1.24 The Majority Lenders may, by notice to an Agent with a copy to the AMB Agent, require it to resign under Clause 1.15 of this Schedule.
1.25 Relationship with Lenders
1.26 Each Agent may treat each Lender as a Lender, entitled to payments under this Agreement and as acting through its Facility Office(s) until it has received not less than five Business Days' prior notice from that Lender to the contrary.
1.27 The Facility Agent may at any time convene a meeting of the Lenders.
1.28 The Facility Agent shall keep a record of all the Parties and supply any other Party with a copy of the record on request. The record will include each Lender's Facility Office(s) and contact details for the purposes of this Agreement.
Notice period
1.29 Where this Agreement specifies a minimum period of notice to be given to an Agent, that Agent may, at its discretion, accept a shorter notice period.
Page 171
 
Security
1.30 Each Finance Party (other than the Security Agent) has irrevocably appointed the Security Agent under the Security Agency Agreement to act as its agent.
1.31 In relation to the German Security the following additional provisions shall apply:
1.32 In relation to the French Security the following additional provisions shall apply:
1.33 In relation to the Spanish Security the following additional provisions shall apply:
Page 172
 
1.34 In relation to the England and Wales Security the following additional provisions shall apply:
Page 173
 
1.35 In relation to the Italian Security the following additional provisions shall apply:
1.36 In relation to the Dutch Security the following additional provisions shall apply:
Page 174
 
1.37 In relation to the Belgian Security the following additional provisions shall apply:
Page 175
 
Definitions
In this Schedule 17:
means Brussels Airport Company NV (formerly Brussels International Airport Company).
BAC
means the Term Loan between AMB BRU Air Cargo Center BVBA and ING Real Estate Finance N.V. to finance the Property at Brucargo, Zaventem, Belgium, acquired by the authentic deed "Transfer, extension and modification conditions of the right to build. Sale of the building. Vesting new right to build. Option to right to build." entered into between AMB BRU Air Cargo Center BVBA, 3AD NV and BAC on 3 August 2005.
BRU Cargo Loan
Covenants
Page 180
 
, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective duly authorised representatives as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
The Original AMB Party and Original Acquisition Borrower
AMB European Investments LLC as the
Original AMB Party
and
Original Acquisition Borrower
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised officer
Original Term Borrowers and Original PropCos
AMB Le Grand Roissy Santal SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
AMB Le Grand Roissy Saturne SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
Page 181
 
AMB Le Grand Roissy Scandy SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
AMB Le Grand Roissy Scipion SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
AMB Le Grand Roissy Sepia SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
AMB Le Grand Roissy Segur SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
Page 182
 
AMB Le Grand Roissy Seringa SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
AMB Le Grand Roissy Signac SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
AMB Le Grand Roissy Sisley SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
AMB Le Grand Roissy Soliflore SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
Page 183
 
AMB Le Grand Roissy Sonate SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
AMB Le Grand Roissy Sorbiers SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
AMB Le Grand Roissy Storland SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
AMB Le Grand Roissy Symphonie SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
Page 184
 
AMB Le Grand Roissy Mesnil SAS as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
SCI AMB France Three as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
SCI AMB France Four as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
AMB Capronilaan BV as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
Page 185
 
AMB Koolhovenlaan 1 BV as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
AMB Koolhovenlaan 2 BV as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
AMB Port of Rotterdam 2-10 BV as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
AMB BRU Air Cargo Center BVBA as an
Original Term Borrower
and
Original PropCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
Page 186
 
Original ShareCo
AMB Le Grand Roissy Holding 2 S..r.l as an
Original ShareCo
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
The Acquisition Loan Guarantor and Carve-out Indemnifier
AMB Property, L.P. as the
Acquisition Loan Guarantor
and
Carve-out Indemnifier
By: /s/ Franois Rispe
Name: Mr. Franois Rispe
Title:
Capacity: Authorised officer
Page 187
 
The Original Lenders, Security Agent and Facility Agent
ING Real Estate Finance NV as an
Original Lender
, as a
Security Agent and
as the
Facility Agent
By: /s/ M. Rang
Name: M. Rang
Title: Sr. Managing Director
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
By: /s/ M.J. P.W. Brand
Name: M.J. P.W. Brand
Title: General Manager
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
ING Real Estate Finance (Espana), E.F.C., S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal) (Spanish branch) as an
Original Lender
and as a
Security Agent
By: /s/ Walter De Luna
Name: Walter De Luna
Title: General Manager ING REF EFC
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
By:
Name:
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
Page 188
 
ING Real Estate Finance (Espana), E.F.C., S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal) (Italian branch) as an
Original Lender
and as a
Security Agent
By: /s/ Massimiliano Rosen
Name: Massimiliano Rosen
Title: General Manager Italian Branch
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
By:
Name:
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
ING Real Estate Finance (U.K.) B.V. as an
Original Lender
and as a
Security Agent
By: /s/ Jonathan Mitchell
Name: Jonathan Mitchell
Title: Managing Director
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
By:
Name:
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
Page 189
 
ING Real Estate Finance (France) as an
Original Lender
and as a
Security Agent
By: /s/ Frederic Ciuntu
Name: Frederic Ciuntu
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
By:
Name:
Title:
Capacity: Authorised representative by virtue of a power of attorney
Page 190


