FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20061018104411.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On October 17, 2006, we issued a press release entitled "AMB Property Corporation Announces Third Quarter 2006 Results," which sets forth disclosure regarding our results of operations for the third quarter of 2006. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This section and the attached exhibit are provided under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
On October 17, 2006, we reported results for the quarter and nine-month period ended September 30, 2006.
Funds from operations per fully diluted share and unit was $0.72 for the third quarter of 2006, as compared to $0.50 for the same quarter in 2005. Funds from operations per fully diluted share and unit for the year-to-date period was $2.10, as compared to $1.59 for the same period in 2005.
Net income available to common stockholders per fully diluted share and unit was $0.33 for the third quarter of 2006, as compared to $0.31 for the same quarter in 2005. Net income available to common stockholders per fully diluted share and unit for the year-to-date period was $1.39 as compared to $1.27 for the same period in 2005.
Operating Results
Our industrial operating portfolio occupancy was 95.9% at September 30, 2006, up 50 basis points from June 30, 2006, and 130 basis points from September 30, 2005. Benefiting from occupancy gains and rising rents in many of our markets, cash-basis same store net operating income in the third quarter of 2006 increased 5.8% over the same period in 2005. When the effects of lease termination fees are excluded from this metric, the increase was 5.5%. In the third quarter, rents on lease renewal and rollover in our operating portfolio increased 9.9%, as compared to declines of 0.9% in the prior quarter and 7.6% in the third quarter of 2005.
Investment Activity
New development and renovation starts in the quarter totaled approximately 2.8 million square feet in eight projects in North America, Europe and Asia, with an estimated total investment of $251.2 million. Our industrial development and renovation pipeline totals approximately 13.4 million square feet in 45 projects globally, with an estimated total investment of $1.2 billion scheduled for delivery through 2008. Deliveries slated through the end of 2006 are 66% preleased or under contract for sale.
Table of Contents
During the third quarter, we stabilized and completed nine development projects in North America, Europe and Asia. Two projects totaling approximately 181,000 square feet and representing an aggregate investment of $13.0 million were placed in operations, and seven projects totaling approximately 2.7 million square feet and representing an aggregate investment of $199.1 million were made available for sale or contribution.
Our development business includes contribution of stabilized properties to affiliated private capital funds or sale of projects to third parties. During the third quarter, we contributed AMB Narita Distribution Center 1, Buildings A & B, comprising 668,000 square feet in Tokyo, to our Japan Fund I. We sold three development properties to third parties consisting of a 699,000 square foot industrial facility in Los Angeles and two industrial buildings totaling approximately 67,000 square feet in Miami.
During the third quarter, we acquired approximately 1.3 million square feet of distribution facilities in ten buildings at a total acquisition cost of $115.6 million. The acquisitions expanded our presence in the target markets of Chicago, Los Angeles, Minneapolis and Seattle, and included entry into our fourth Mexico target market, Queretaro, the country's most geographically central distribution hub.
At quarter end, our pipeline of committed developments stood at $1.2 billion, the highest in our history, with 45 projects in nine countries on three continents.
In the third quarter, we completed a sale of one operating building that no longer fits our strategy. The 74,000 square foot building represented approximately $5.2 million in gross disposition proceeds.
Development Joint Venture Formed
Subsequent to quarter end, we entered into a merchant development joint venture with GE Real Estate. The joint venture will have total investment capacity of approximately $500 million to pursue development-for-sale opportunities in U.S. markets other than those we identify as our target markets. GE and we have committed $425 million and $75 million of equity, respectively. We will earn development fees and are entitled to 45% of the development project profits realized by the venture over a 7.25% unleveraged internal rate of return. We expect to contribute several of our land holdings into the venture in the fourth quarter.
Addition of Company Officers
During the quarter, three officers joined us: Dale Valicenti joined the Boston office as senior vice president, director of acquisitions; John Morgan joined the Atlanta office as vice president, development; and Francois Rispe joined in Paris as vice president, director of project development.
Supplemental Earnings Measures
We report funds from operations in accordance with the standards established by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. Included in the footnotes to our attached financial statements is a discussion of why management believes funds from
Table of Contents
operations is a useful supplemental measure of operating performance, ways in which investors might use funds from operations when assessing our financial performance and funds from operations' limitations as a measurement tool. Reconciliation from net income to funds from operations is provided in the attached tables.
We believe that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, we consider same store net operating income (SSNOI) to be a useful supplemental measure of its operating performance. Properties that are considered part of the same store pool include all properties that were owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and exclude development properties for both the current and prior reporting periods. The same store pool is set annually and excludes properties purchased and developments stabilized after December 31, 2004. In deriving SSNOI, we define NOI as rental revenues (as calculated in accordance with GAAP), including reimbursements, less straight-line rents, property operating expenses and real estate taxes. We exclude straight-line rents in calculating SSNOI because we believe it provides a better measure of actual cash basis rental growth for a year-over-year comparison. In addition, we believe that SSNOI helps the investing public compare our operating performance with that of other companies. While SSNOI is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to those measures in evaluating our liquidity or operating performance. SSNOI also does not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expenses, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact our results from operations. Further, our computation of SSNOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating SSNOI. A reconciliation from net income to SSNOI is provided in the attached tables.
We are a global developer and owner of industrial real estate, focused on major hub and gateway distribution markets throughout North America, Europe and Asia. As of September 30, 2006, we owned, or had investments in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated joint ventures, properties and development projects expected to total approximately 124.8 million square feet (11.6 million square meters) and 1,109 buildings in 42 markets within 11 countries. We invest in properties located predominantly in the infill submarkets of its targeted markets. Our portfolio is comprised of High Throughput Distribution facilitiesindustrial properties built for speed and located near airports, seaports and ground transportation systems.
Forward looking statements
Some of the information included in this report contains forward-looking statements, such as those related to total expected investments in acquisitions and developments; size and timing of deliveries and total investments in development projects; our expected returns under our joint venture with GE and use of private capital funds for planned investment activity, which are made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Because these forward-looking
Table of Contents
statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, and you should not rely on the forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events or circumstances reflected in forward-looking statements might not occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "approximately," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates" or "anticipates" or the negative of these words and phrases or similar words or phrases. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily dependent on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and we may not be able to realize them. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak only as of the date of this report or the dates indicated in the statements. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements: defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, increased interest rates and operating costs, our failure to obtain necessary outside financing, re-financing risks, difficulties in identifying properties to acquire and in effecting acquisitions, our failure to successfully integrate acquired properties and operations, our failure to divest properties on advantageous terms or to timely reinvest proceeds from any divestitures, risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including construction delays, cost overruns, our inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to these activities), our failure to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust, environmental uncertainties, risks related to natural disasters, changes in general economic conditions or in the real estate sector, changes in real estate and zoning laws or other local, state and federal regulatory requirements, a downturn in the U.S., California, or the global economy, risks related to doing business internationally, losses in excess of our insurance coverage, unknown liabilities acquired in connection with acquired properties or otherwise and increases in real property tax rates. Our success also depends upon economic trends generally, including interest rates, income tax laws, governmental regulation, legislation, population changes, various market conditions and fluctuations and those other risk factors discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
The following table reconciles SSNOI from net income for the three months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in thousands):
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION
ANNOUNCES THIRD QUARTER 2006 RESULTS
Results reflect solid operating performance and development property gains
SAN FRANCISCO, October 17, 2006  AMB Property Corporation (NYSE:AMB), a leading global developer and owner of industrial real estate, today reported results for the quarter and nine-month period ended September 30, 2006.
Funds from operations per fully diluted share and unit ("FFOPS") was $0.72 for the third quarter of 2006, as compared to $0.50 for the same quarter in 2005. FFOPS for the year-to-date period was $2.10, as compared to $1.59 for the same period in 2005. The quarter and year-to-date FFOPS results exceeded the high end of the company's previous guidance by $0.08 per share, primarily as a result of better than expected profitability on development projects sold or contributed during the quarter.
Net income available to common stockholders per fully diluted share and unit ("EPS") was $0.33 for the third quarter of 2006, as compared to $0.31 for the same quarter in 2005. EPS for the year-to-date period was $1.39 as compared to $1.27 for the same period in 2005.
Operating Results
AMB's industrial operating portfolio occupancy was 95.9% at September 30, 2006, up 50 basis points from June 30, 2006, and 130 basis points from September 30, 2005. Benefiting from occupancy gains and rising rents in many of the company's markets, cash-basis same store net operating income in the third quarter of 2006 increased 5.8% over the same period in 2005. When the effects of lease termination fees are excluded from this metric, the increase was 5.5%. In the third quarter, rents on lease renewal and rollover in AMB's operating portfolio increased 9.9%, as compared to declines of 0.9% in the prior quarter and 7.6% in the third quarter of 2005.
Hamid R. Moghadam, AMB chairman and CEO, said, "Our performance in the third quarter was solid. Occupancy reached its highest level since the third quarter of 2001, and rents on renewals entered positive territory for the first time since the first quarter of 2002. We're pleased with the continued demand for industrial product, especially in our Asia markets, and preliminary data provided by Torto Wheaton Research indicates positive absorption and availability figures for industrial space in the U.S. during the third quarter. While there are signs of moderating growth in both the U.S. and Europe, we believe that our portfolio is well positioned and, at this time, there is sustained customer demand for our industrial facilities globally."
 
Investment Activity
New development and renovation starts in the quarter totaled approximately 2.8 million square feet in eight projects in North America, Europe and Asia, with an estimated total investment of $251.2 million. AMB's industrial development and renovation pipeline totals approximately 13.4 million square feet in 45 projects globally, with an estimated total investment of $1.2 billion scheduled for delivery through 2008. Deliveries slated through the end of 2006 are 66% preleased or under contract for sale.
During the third quarter, AMB stabilized and completed nine development projects in North America, Europe and Asia. Two projects totaling approximately 181,000 square feet and representing an aggregate investment of $13.0 million were placed in operations, and seven projects totaling approximately 2.7 million square feet and representing an aggregate investment of $199.1 million were made available for sale or contribution.
The company's development business includes contribution of stabilized properties to affiliated private capital funds or sale of projects to third parties. During the third quarter, AMB contributed AMB Narita Distribution Center 1, Buildings A & B, comprising 668,000 square feet in Tokyo, to its Japan Fund I. The company sold three development properties to third parties consisting of a 699,000 square foot industrial facility in Los Angeles and two industrial buildings totaling approximately 67,000 square feet in Miami.
During the third quarter, AMB acquired approximately 1.3 million square feet of distribution facilities in ten buildings at a total acquisition cost of $115.6 million. The acquisitions expanded the company's presence in the target markets of Chicago, Los Angeles, Minneapolis and Seattle, and included entry into the company's fourth Mexico target market, Queretaro, the country's most geographically central distribution hub.
AMB's president, W. Blake Baird, commented, "Our global development business is providing quality distribution facilities for our customers, attractive investments for our private capital business, and meaningful profits for our shareholders. At quarter end, our pipeline of committed developments stood at $1.2 billion, the highest in our history, with 45 projects in nine countries on three continents."
In the third quarter, AMB completed an opportunistic sale of one operating building that no longer fits the company's strategy. The 74,000 square foot building represented approximately $5.2 million in gross disposition proceeds.
Development Joint Venture Formed
Subsequent to quarter end, AMB entered into a merchant development joint venture with GE Real Estate. The joint venture will have total investment capacity of approximately $500 million to pursue development-for-sale opportunities in U.S. markets other than those AMB identifies as its target markets. GE and AMB have committed $425 million and $75 million of equity, respectively. AMB will earn development fees and is entitled to 45% of the development project profits realized by the venture over a 7.25% unleveraged internal rate of return. AMB expects to contribute several of its land holdings into the venture in the fourth quarter.
 
Addition of Company Officers
During the quarter, three officers joined the company: Dale Valicenti joined the Boston office as senior vice president, director of acquisitions; John Morgan joined the Atlanta office as vice president, development; and Francois Rispe joined in Paris as vice president, director of project development.
Supplemental Earnings Measures
AMB reports funds from operations per fully diluted share and unit in accordance with the standards established by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. Included in the footnotes to the company's attached financial statements is a discussion of why management believes FFOPS is a useful supplemental measure of operating performance, ways in which investors might use FFOPS when assessing the company's financial performance and FFOPS's limitations as a measurement tool. Reconciliation from net income to funds from operations is provided in the attached tables and published in AMB's quarterly supplemental analyst package, available on the company's website at www.amb.com.
The company believes that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, the company considers same store net operating income (SSNOI) to be a useful supplemental measure of its operating performance. Properties that are considered part of the same store pool include all properties that were owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and exclude development properties for both the current and prior reporting periods. The same store pool is set annually and excludes properties purchased and developments stabilized after December 31, 2004. In deriving SSNOI, the company defines NOI as rental revenues (as calculated in accordance with GAAP), including reimbursements, less straight-line rents, property operating expenses and real estate taxes. The company excludes straight-line rents in calculating SSNOI because the company believes it provides a better measure of actual cash basis rental growth for a year-over-year comparison. In addition, the company believes that SSNOI helps the investing public compare the company's operating performance with that of other companies. While SSNOI is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to those measures in evaluating our liquidity or operating performance. SSNOI also does not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expenses, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact its results from operations. Further, the company's computation of SSNOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating SSNOI. Reconciliation from net income to SSNOI is published in the company's quarterly supplemental analyst package, available on the company's website at www.amb.com.
Conference Call and Supplemental Information
The company will host a conference call to discuss the quarterly results on Wednesday, October 18, 2006 at 1:00 p.m. EDT/10:00 a.m. PDT. Stockholders and interested parties may listen to a live broadcast of the conference call by dialing 877 447 8218 (from the U.S. and Canada) or +1 706 643 7823 (from all other countries) and entering reservation code 6774681. A webcast can be accessed
 
through a link titled "Q3 2006 Earnings Conference Call" located on the home page of the company's website at www.amb.com. A telephone and webcast replay will be available after 12:00 p.m. PDT on Wednesday, October 18, 2006 until 5:00 p.m. PST on Thursday, November 16, 2006. The telephone replay can be accessed by dialing 800 642 1687 (U.S. and Canada) or +1 706 645 9291 (all other countries), with the reservation code 6774681 or by webcast through the link on the company's website at www.amb.com.
In addition, the company will post a summary of the guidance given on the call and a supplement detailing the components of net asset value to the Investor Information portion of its website on Tuesday, October 24, 2006 by 5:00 p.m. PDT.
AMB Property Corporation.
Local partner to global trade.
AMB Property Corporation is a leading global developer and owner of industrial real estate, focused on major hub and gateway distribution markets throughout North America, Europe and Asia. As of September 30, 2006, AMB owned, or had investments in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated joint ventures, properties and development projects expected to total approximately 124.8 million square feet (11.6 million square meters) and 1,109 buildings in 42 markets within 11 countries. AMB invests in properties located predominantly in the infill submarkets of its targeted markets. The company's portfolio is comprised of High Throughput Distribution facilitiesindustrial properties built for speed and located near airports, seaports and ground transportation systems.
AMB's press releases are available on the company website at www.amb.com or by contacting the Investor Relations department at +1 415 394 9000.
Some of the information included in this press release contains forward-looking statements, such as those related to total expected investments in acquisitions and developments; size and timing of deliveries and total investments in development projects; and use of private capital funds for planned investment activity, which are made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, and you should not rely on the forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events or circumstances reflected in forward-looking statements might not occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "approximately," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates" or "anticipates" or the negative of these words and phrases or similar words or phrases. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily dependent on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and we may not be able to realize them. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak only as of the date of this report or the dates indicated in the statements. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements: defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, increased interest rates and operating costs, our failure to obtain necessary outside financing, re-financing risks, difficulties in identifying properties to acquire and in effecting acquisitions, our failure to successfully integrate acquired properties and operations, our failure to divest properties on advantageous terms or to timely reinvest proceeds from any divestitures, risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including construction delays, cost overruns, our inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to these activities), our failure to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust, environmental uncertainties, risks related to natural disasters, changes in general economic conditions or in the real estate sector, changes in real estate and zoning laws or other local, state and federal regulatory requirements, a downturn in the U.S., California, or the global economy, risks related to doing business internationally, losses in excess of our insurance coverage, unknown liabilities acquired in connection with acquired properties or otherwise and increases in real property tax rates. Our success also depends upon economic trends generally, including interest rates, income tax laws,
 
governmental regulation, legislation, population changes, various market conditions and fluctuations and those other risk factors discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.
AMB CONTACT
Margan S. Mitchell Vice President, Corporate Communications Direct    +1 415 733 9477 Fax         +1 415 477 2177 Email     mmitchell@amb.com
 
 
 
 
 


