FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20070223172323.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On February 23, 2007, we issued a press release entitled "AMB Property Corporation Plans to Expand its Global Development Business to Annual Starts of $1.6 Billion," a copy of which is filed as an exhibit to and incorporated by reference into this report. On February 23, 2007, we also issued a press release entitled, "AMB Property Corporation to Offer 8 Million Shares of Common Stock," a copy of which is filed as an exhibit to and incorporated by reference into this report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION PLANS TO EXPAND ITS GLOBAL
DEVELOPMENT BUSINESS TO ANNUAL STARTS OF $1.6 BILLION
SAN FRANCISCO, February 23, 2007  AMB Property Corporation (NYSE:AMB), a global developer and owner of industrial real estate, today announced that it expects to expand its global development business and increase its annual development starts by approximately 75% over the next four years, from a record level of $914 million in 2006 to a target of approximately $1.6 billion per year by 2010.
Over the past five years, AMB has built a global development franchise and created significant development capabilities in North America, Europe and Asia, meeting the demand from our customers for high-quality industrial space in markets tied to global trade. Since beginning our global expansion in 2002, the company has increased its annual development starts ten fold to $914 million in 2006.
Over the same period, through dispositions and the recycling of capital back into our development business, we have aligned our portfolio with our investment strategy which is focused on industrial distribution space in major markets tied to global trade. "We believe that many of AMB's existing platforms are realizing their potential and that customer demand, fueled by global trade, continues to drive our expansion into new markets around the world," said Hamid R. Moghadam, AMB's chairman and CEO. "We further believe our opportunity set is greater than it ever has been and that now is a good time to take advantage of these opportunities. As such, we intend to strengthen our balance sheet to provide capital for growth. We are very excited about the prospects for our global business."
AMB Property Corporation. Local partner to global trade.
AMB Property Corporation is a global developer and owner of industrial real estate, focused on major hub and gateway distribution markets throughout North America, Europe and Asia. As of December 31, 2006, AMB owned, or had investments in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated joint ventures, properties and development projects expected to total approximately 124.7 million square feet (11.6 million square meters) and 1,088 buildings in 39 markets within 12 countries. AMB invests in properties located predominantly in the infill submarkets of its targeted markets. The company's portfolio is comprised of High Throughput Distribution facilitiesindustrial properties built for speed and located near airports, seaports and ground transportation systems.
AMB's press releases are available on the company website at www.amb.com or by contacting the Investor Relations department at +1 415 394 9000.
Some of the information included in this press release contains forward-looking statements, such as the expansion of our development business and the source of financing for our development activities, which are made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION TO OFFER 8 MILLION SHARES OF
COMMON STOCK
SAN FRANCISCO, February 23, 2007  AMB Property Corporation (NYSE:AMB), a global developer and owner of industrial real estate, today announced it intends to issue 8 million shares of its common stock in a registered offering. The company also plans to grant the underwriters an option to issue up to 1.2 million additional shares to cover over-allotments, if any. Banc of America Securities, LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co., Incorporated will act as joint bookrunners for the proposed offering.
AMB intends to use the net proceeds from the sale of the common stock to fund the expansion of its global development business. The company may also use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include the acquisition of additional properties, the repayment of indebtedness, including inter-company indebtedness, the redemption or other repurchase of outstanding securities, capital expenditures and increasing our working capital. Specific allocations of the proceeds to such purposes have not been determined. Pending the application of the net proceeds, AMB may invest the proceeds in short-term securities or temporarily reduce borrowings under revolving credit facilities.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of the common stock in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. A copy of the prospectus supplement and prospectus relating to these securities may be obtained, when available, by contacting Banc of America Securities, LLC, Capital Markets (Prospectus Fulfillment) at: Banc of America Securities, LLC, Capital Markets Operations, 100 West 33rd Street, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10001, or by e-mail: dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com; or J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. at National Statement Processing, Prospectus Library, 4 Chase Metrotech Center, CS Level, Brooklyn, NY 11245, Attention: Chase Distribution & Support Service Northest Statement Processing , Phone: 718-242-8002; or Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Attention: Prospectus Department, 180 Varick Street, New York, NY 10014 or by email: propectus@morganstanley.com.
AMB Property Corporation. Local partner to global trade.
AMB Property Corporation is a global developer and owner of industrial real estate, focused on major hub and gateway distribution markets throughout North America, Europe and Asia. As of December 31, 2006, AMB owned, or had investments in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated joint ventures, properties and development projects expected to total approximately 124.7 million square feet (11.6 million square meters) and 1,088 buildings in 39 markets within 12 countries. AMB invests in properties located predominantly in the infill submarkets of its targeted markets. The company's portfolio is comprised of High Throughput Distribution facilitiesindustrial properties built for speed and located near airports, seaports and ground transportation systems.
 


