FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20071114180204.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
We expect to file a registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on or about November 14, 2007 registering the issuance and resale of 1,130,835 shares of common stock issuable to J.A. Green Development Corp. and JAGI, Inc. In connection with the filing of this registration statement on Form S-3 and for the sole purpose of meeting post-annual report SEC reporting requirements with respect to such registration statement, we are filing this current report on Form 8-K to set forth audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, to reflect the reclassification of five properties from properties held for use to properties held for sale and the disposition of four properties, which were previously held for use, during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2007. We are also amending our segment information presented in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 to conform to the current presentation presented in Note 10 of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.
We are amending our audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 due to certain provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" that require us to report the results of operations of a property if it has either been disposed of or is classified as held for sale in discontinued operations and meets certain other criteria. The same retrospective adjustment of discontinued operations required by SFAS No. 144 is required for previously issued annual financial statements in the Form 10-K, if those financial statements are incorporated by reference in subsequent filings with the SEC made under the Securities Act of 1933, even though those financial statements relate to periods prior to the date of the sale. Accordingly, we are amending our audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 to reflect five properties that were held for sale and the disposition of four properties, which were previously held for use, during the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and met the criteria to be classified as discontinued operations. The effect of the reclassification represents a $9.1 million, $7.4 million and $6.8 million decrease in our previously reported income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As a result of the foregoing, Notes 2, 4, 8, 9, 13, 15, 16 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 have been updated. There is no effect on our previously reported net income, financial condition or cash flows.
In addition, we have provided herein updated information on our properties and an updated table of selected financial data and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and our results of operations, which we believe may be helpful to the investor in reviewing these amended financial statements. We have not included herein the audited financial statements for AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., which were filed with our amended annual report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2006 on October 26, 2007.
Except as described above, the information presented in this current report on Form 8-K does not include any adjustments or updates to any information presented in our consolidated financial statements or elsewhere in our annual report on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, which was originally filed on February 23, 2007.
Table of Contents
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     (d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 23.1
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Forms S-3 (Nos. 333-86842, 333-68291, 333-68283, 333-75953, 333-78699, 333-76823, 333-81475, 333-80815, 333-75951, 333-36894, 333-73718, 333-120793, 333-135210 and 333-140861) and Forms S-8 (Nos. 333-42015, 333-78779, 333-90042, 333-100214 and 333-144489) of AMB Property Corporation of our report dated February 23, 2007, except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to the effects of discontinued operations and the change in the presentation of segment information as discussed in Notes 17 and 16, respectively, as to which the date is November 14, 2007, relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP San Francisco, California November 14, 2007

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Item 2.
Properties
     As of December 31, 2006, we owned and managed 964 industrial buildings aggregating approximately 100.7 million rentable square feet (on a consolidated basis, we had 820 industrial buildings aggregating approximately 80.3 million rentable square feet), excluding development and renovation projects and recently completed development projects available for sale or contribution, located in 34 markets throughout the United States and in China, France, Germany, Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands. Our industrial properties were 96.1% leased to 2,633 customers, the largest of which accounted for no more than 3.1% of our annualized base rent from our industrial properties. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 16 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for segment information related to our operations.
     Our industrial properties, which consist primarily of warehouse distribution facilities suitable for single or multiple customers, are typically comprised of multiple buildings.
Property Characteristics.
     The following table identifies types and characteristics of our industrial buildings and each type's percentage, based on square footage, of our total owned and managed operating portfolio, which we define as properties in which we have at least a 10% ownership interest, for which we are the property or asset manager, and which we intend to hold for the long-term.
 
     Our industrial properties are typically subject to lease on a "triple net basis," in which customers pay their proportionate share of real estate taxes, insurance and operating costs, or are subject to leases on a "modified gross basis," in which customers pay expenses over certain threshold levels. In addition, most of our leases include fixed rental increases or Consumer Price Index-based rental increases. Lease terms typically range from three to ten years, with a weighted average of six years, excluding renewal options. However, the majority of our industrial leases do not include renewal options.
Lease Terms.
     Our industrial properties are typically located near major airports, key interstate highways and seaports in major U.S. metropolitan areas, which currently comprise Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, Miami, Northern New Jersey/New York City, the San Francisco Bay Area, and Seattle. Our other U.S. target markets include Austin, Baltimore/Washington D.C., Boston, Houston, Minneapolis and Orlando. Our non-U.S. industrial properties are located in major distribution markets, including Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Guadalajara, Hamburg, Lyon, Mexico City, Osaka, Paris, Queretaro, Shanghai, Singapore, Tokyo and Toronto.
Overview of Major Target Markets.
     Within these metropolitan areas, our industrial properties are generally concentrated in locations with limited new construction opportunities within established, relatively large submarkets, which we believe should provide a higher rate of occupancy and rent growth than properties located elsewhere. These in-fill locations are typically near major airports, seaports or convenient to major highways and rail lines, and are proximate to large and diverse labor pools. There is typically broad demand for industrial space in these centrally located submarkets due to a diverse mix of industries and types of industrial uses, including warehouse distribution,
 
light assembly and manufacturing. We generally avoid locations at the periphery of metropolitan areas where there are fewer constraints to the supply of additional industrial properties.
 
Owned and Managed Market Operating Statistics
(1)
     As of December 31, 2006, we held investments in operating properties in 34 markets in our owned and managed operating portfolio throughout the United States and in China, France, Germany, Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands. The following table represents properties in which we have at least a 10% ownership interest, for which we are the property or asset manager, and which we intend to hold for the long-term:
 
 
 
Owned and Managed Operating Portfolio Overview
(1)
     As of December 31, 2006, our 964 industrial buildings were diversified across 34 markets throughout the United States and in China, France, Germany, Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands. The average age of our industrial properties is approximately 23 years (since the property was built or substantially renovated). The following table represents our owned and managed properties which we define as properties in which we have at least a 10% ownership interest, for which we are the asset or property manager, and which we intend to hold for the long-term.
 
 
Lease Expirations
(1)
     The following table summarizes the lease expirations for our owned and managed operating properties for leases in place as of December 31, 2006, without giving effect to the exercise of renewal options or termination rights, if any, at or prior to the scheduled expirations:
 
 
Customer Information
(1)
     As of December 31, 2006, our 25 largest property customers by annualized base rent, on an owned and managed basis, are set forth in the table below:
Largest Property Customers.
 
 
Owned and Managed Operating and Leasing Statistics
(1)
     The following table summarizes key operating and leasing statistics for all of our owned and managed operating properties as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
 
 
Owned and Managed Same Store Operating Statistics
(1)
     The following table summarizes key operating and leasing statistics for our owned and managed same store operating properties as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
 
 
Development Pipeline
     The following table sets forth the properties owned by us as of December 31, 2006, which were undergoing development, renovation or expansion. We cannot assure you that any of these projects will be completed on schedule or within budgeted amounts.
 
 
     The following table sets forth completed development projects that we intend to either sell or contribute to co-investment funds as of December 31, 2006:
 
 
Properties held through Joint Ventures, Limited Liability Companies and Partnerships
Consolidated Joint Ventures:
     As of December 31, 2006, we held interests in joint ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships with institutional investors and other third parties, which we consolidate in our financial statements. Such investments are consolidated because we own a majority interest or, as general partner, exercise significant control over major operating decisions such as acquisition or disposition decisions, approval of budgets, selection of property managers and changes in financing. Under the agreements governing the joint ventures, we and the other party to the joint venture may be required to make additional capital contributions and, subject to certain limitations, the joint ventures may incur additional debt. Such agreements also impose certain restrictions on the transfer of joint venture interests by us or the other party to the joint venture and typically provide certain rights to us or the other party to the joint venture to sell our or their interest in the joint venture to the joint venture or to the other joint-venture partner on terms specified in the agreement. In addition, under certain circumstances, many of the joint ventures include buy/sell provisions. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 9 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional details.
     The tables that follow summarize our consolidated joint ventures as of December 31, 2006:
 
 
 
Unconsolidated Joint Ventures:
     As of December 31, 2006, we held interests in 14 equity investment joint ventures that are not consolidated in our financial statements. Effective October 1, 2006, we deconsolidated AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. on a prospective basis. The management and control over significant aspects of these investments are held by the third-party joint-venture partners and we are not the primary beneficiary for the investments that meet the variable-interest entity consolidation criteria under FASB Interpretation No. 46(R),
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.
     The tables that follow summarize our unconsolidated joint ventures as of December 31, 2006:
 
 
     
Mortgage and Loan Receivables and Other Investments:
     The tables that follow summarize our mortgage investments and other investments as of December 31, 2006:
 
 
Secured Debt
     As of December 31, 2006, we had $1.4 billion of secured indebtedness, net of unamortized premiums, secured by deeds of trust or mortgages. As of December 31, 2006, the total gross consolidated investment value of those properties securing the debt was $2.6 billion. Of the $1.4 billion of secured indebtedness, $1.0 billion was consolidated joint venture debt secured by properties with a gross investment value of $1.9 billion. For additional details, see Part II, Item 7: "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Liquidity and Capital Resources" and Part IV, Item 15: Note 6 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included in this report. We believe that as of December 31, 2006, the fair value of the properties securing the respective obligations in each case exceeded the principal amount of the outstanding obligations.

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
Item 6.
Selected Financial Data
     The following table sets forth selected consolidated historical financial and other data for AMB Property Corporation on a historical basis as of and for the years ended December 31:
     Note: Effective October 1, 2006, the Company deconsolidated AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. on a prospective basis. See footnote 4 below for further discussion of the comparability of selected financial and other data.
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.3
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
     
You should read the following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the notes to consolidated financial statements.
     We commenced operations as a fully integrated real estate company effective with the completion of our initial public offering on November 26, 1997, and elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, with our initial tax return for the year ended December 31, 1997. AMB Property Corporation and AMB Property, L.P. were formed shortly before the consummation of our initial public offering.
Management's Overview
     The primary source of our revenue and earnings is rent received from customers under long-term (generally three to ten years) operating leases at our properties, including reimbursements from customers for certain operating costs, and from partnership distributions and fees from our private capital business. We also produce earnings from the disposition of operating assets that no longer fit our strategy, from the disposition of projects in our development-for-sale program and from the contributions of properties to our co-investment joint ventures. Our long-term growth is driven by our ability to maintain and increase occupancy rates or increase rental rates at our properties, and by our ability to continue to acquire and develop new properties.
     National industrial markets continued to improve during 2006 when compared with market conditions in 2005. According to Torto Wheaton Research, availability dropped 10 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2006 to 9.4%, and availability for the year dropped 50 basis points. We believe the strongest industrial markets in the U.S. are the coastal gateway markets tied to global trade, including Los Angeles, our largest market, Miami, the San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle, and to a lesser degree Northern New Jersey/New York (with the exception of the Exit 8A submarket). While we believe that the broader Chicago market is showing signs of stabilization, certain submarkets, like the O'Hare submarket, are relatively strong. We believe Dallas continues to recover, and Atlanta continues to suffer from a large increase in supply. We believe the operating environment in our U.S. on-tarmac business remains good with improving cargo volumes and essentially no new supply.
     Investor demand for industrial property (as supported by our observation of strong national sales volumes and declining acquisition capitalization rates) has remained consistently strong over the past several years. We believe we capitalized on this demand for industrial property by accelerating the repositioning of our portfolio, through the disposition of non-core properties, which was effectively completed in 2006 with our exit from the Charlotte and Memphis markets. We plan to continue selling selected assets on an opportunistic basis or that no longer fit our strategic investment objectives, but we believe we have substantially achieved our repositioning goals.
     Occupancy levels in our portfolio continue to outperform the national industrial market, as determined by Torto Wheaton Research, by pricing lease renewals and new leases with sensitivity to local market conditions. During the prior periods of decreasing or stabilizing rental rates, we strove to sign leases with shorter terms to prevent locking in lower rent levels for long periods and to be prepared to sign new, longer-term leases during periods of growing rental rates. When we sign leases of shorter duration, we attempt to limit overall leasing costs and capital expenditures by offering different grades of tenant improvement packages, appropriate to the lease term. In our stronger markets, we are increasing rents as opposed to occupancy.
     The table below summarizes key operating and leasing statistics for our owned and managed operating properties for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005:
 
 
     At December 31, 2006, our operating portfolio's occupancy rate was 96.1%, on an owned and managed basis (97.0% on a consolidated basis), an increase from both the prior quarter and December 31, 2005. Rental rates on lease renewals and rollovers in our portfolio increased 4.1% in the fourth quarter of 2006 and decreased 0.1% for the full year. Cash basis same store net operating income (rental revenues less property operating expenses and real estate taxes for properties included in the same store pool, which is set annually and excludes properties purchased or developments stabilized after December 31, 2004) grew by 1.3% in the fourth quarter of 2006 and 2.6% for the full-year 2006, on an owned and managed basis. Excluding lease termination fees, same store net operating income grew 3.0% and 3.2% in the quarter and for the full year (decreased 0.5% and increased 1.6%, respectively, on a consolidated basis), respectively, on an owned and managed basis. See Part II, Item 7: "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Supplemental Earnings Measures" for a discussion of same store net operating income and a reconciliation of same store net operating income and net income. We currently expect that same store growth in our operating portfolio, excluding lease termination fees, will be about 3% to 4% for 2007, on an owned and managed basis. Market rents continue to rebound from their lows and in many of our hub and gateway markets are back to or above their prior peak levels of 2001.
     We believe that industrial market rents in the San Francisco Bay Area are improving. While market rents in the San Francisco Bay Area were up 10% to 15% in 2006, rents still have not yet fully recovered to normal levels. Rents on lease renewals and rollovers in the San Francisco Bay Area declined 21.0% in the fourth quarter of 2006 and 13.2% for the full-year 2006, on an owned and managed basis. Without the effect of the San Francisco Bay Area, rents on renewals and rollovers for the full-year 2006 would have been 2.0%, on an owned and managed basis, which we believe reflects the generally positive trends in U.S. industrial space availability.
     We expect development to be a significant driver of our earnings growth as we expand our land and development pipeline, and contribute completed development projects into our co-investment program and recognize development profits. We believe that development, renovation and expansion of well-located, high-quality industrial properties should generally continue to provide us with attractive investment opportunities at a higher rate of return than we may obtain from the purchase of existing properties. We believe that our development opportunities in Mexico, Japan and China are particularly attractive given the current lack of supply of modern
 
industrial distribution facilities in the major metropolitan markets of these countries. Prior to our global expansion, our development pipeline was $106.8 million at the end of 2002. As a result of our global expansion and increased development capabilities, we have increased our development pipeline to approximately $1.3 billion at December 31, 2006. In addition to our committed development pipeline, we hold a total of 1,735 acres for future development or sale, of which 92% is in North America. We believe these 1,735 acres of land could support approximately 30.5 million square feet of future development.
     Going forward, we believe that our co-investment program with private-capital investors will continue to serve as a significant source of revenues and capital for new investments. Through these co-investment joint ventures, we typically earn acquisition fees, asset management fees and priority distributions, as well as promoted interests and incentive distributions based on the performance of the co-investment joint ventures; however, we cannot assure you that we will continue to do so. Through contribution of development properties to our co-investment joint ventures, we expect to recognize value creation from our development pipeline. As of December 31, 2006, we owned approximately 64.3 million square feet of our properties (51.6% of the total operating and development portfolio) through our consolidated and unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures. We may make additional investments through these co-investment joint ventures or new joint ventures in the future and presently plan to do so.
     By the end of 2010, we expect to have approximately 50% of our owned and managed operating portfolio invested in non-U.S. markets (based on owned and managed annualized base rent). As of December 31, 2006, our non-U.S. operating properties comprised 14.1% of our owned and managed operating portfolio (based on annualized base rent) and 7.4% of our consolidated operating portfolio (based on annualized base rent). Our North American target countries outside of the United States currently comprise Canada and Mexico. Our European target countries currently comprise Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom. Our Asian target countries currently comprise China, India, Japan, Singapore and South Korea. We expect to add additional target countries outside the United States in the future.
     To maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust, we must pay dividends to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our taxable income. As a result, we cannot rely on retained earnings to fund our on-going operations to the same extent that other corporations that are not real estate investment trusts can. We must continue to raise capital in both the debt and equity markets to fund our working capital needs, acquisitions and developments. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a complete discussion of the sources of our capital.
Summary of Key Transactions in 2006
     During the year ended December 31, 2006, we completed the following significant capital deployment and other transactions:
 
     See Part IV, Item 15: Notes 3 and 4 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a more detailed discussion of our acquisition, development and disposition activity.
     During the year ended December 31, 2006, we completed the following significant capital markets and other financing transactions:
     See Part IV, Item 15: Notes 6, 9 and 11 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a more detailed discussion of our capital markets transactions.
Critical Accounting Policies
     Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We evaluate our assumptions and estimates on an on-going basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ
 
from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.
     Investments in real estate and leasehold interests are stated at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost cannot be recovered, in which case, the carrying value of the property is reduced to estimated fair value. We also regularly review the impact of above or below-market leases, in-place leases and lease origination costs for all new acquisitions, and record an intangible asset or liability accordingly. Carrying values for financial reporting purposes are reviewed for impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. Impairment is recognized when estimated expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) are less than the carrying value of the property. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economics and market conditions and the availability of capital. If impairment analysis assumptions change, then an adjustment to the carrying value of our long-lived assets could occur in the future period in which the assumptions change. To the extent that a property is impaired, the excess of the carrying amount of the property over its estimated fair value is charged to earnings. As a result of leasing activity and the economic environment, we re-evaluated the carrying value of our investments and recorded impairment charges of $6.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 on certain of our investments.
Investments in Real Estate.
     We record rental revenue from operating leases on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases and maintain an allowance for estimated losses that may result from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If customers fail to make contractual lease payments that are greater than our allowance for doubtful accounts, security deposits and letters of credit, then we may have to recognize additional doubtful account charges in future periods. We monitor the liquidity and creditworthiness of our customers on an on-going basis by reviewing their financial condition periodically as appropriate. Each period we review our outstanding accounts receivable, including straight-line rents, for doubtful accounts and provide allowances as needed. We also record lease termination fees when a customer has executed a definitive termination agreement with us and the payment of the termination fee is not subject to any conditions that must be met or waived before the fee is due to us. If a customer remains in the leased space following the execution of a definitive termination agreement, the applicable termination fees are deferred and recognized over the term of such customer's occupancy.
Revenue Recognition.
     We report real estate dispositions in three separate categories on our consolidated statements of operations. First, when we divest a portion of our interests in real estate entities or properties, gains from the sale represent the interests acquired by third-party investors for cash and are included in gains from disposition of real estate interests in the statement of operations. Second, we dispose of value-added conversion projects and build-to-suit and speculative development projects for which we have not generated material operating income prior to sale. The gain or loss recognized from the disposition of these projects is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable, and are included in development profits, net of taxes, in the statement of operations. Lastly, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, requires us to separately report as discontinued operations the historical operating results attributable to operating properties sold and the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the properties, which is included in gains from dispositions of real estate, net of minority interests, in the statement of operations. The consolidated statements of operations for prior periods are also adjusted to conform with this classification. There is no impact on our previously reported consolidated financial position, net income or cash flows. In all cases, gains and losses are recognized using the full accrual method of accounting. Gains relating to transactions which do not meet the requirements of the full accrual method of accounting are deferred and recognized when the full accrual method of accounting criteria are met.
Property Dispositions.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,
     We hold interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. We determine consolidation based on standards set forth in EITF 04-5, or FASB Interpretation No. 46R, "FIN 46". Based on the guidance set forth in EITF 04-5, we consolidate certain joint venture investments because we exercise significant control over major operating decisions, such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers, asset management, investment activity and changes in financing. For joint ventures that are variable interest entities as defined under FIN 46 where we are not the primary beneficiary, we do not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures under EITF 04-5, where we do not exercise significant control over major operating and management decisions, but where we exercise significant influence, we use the equity method of accounting and do not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes.
Joint Ventures.
Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
     As a real estate investment trust, we generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income taxes in the U.S. if we meet minimum distribution, income, asset and shareholder tests. However, some of our subsidiaries may be subject to federal and state taxes. In addition, foreign entities may also be subject to the taxes of the host country. An income tax
Real Estate Investment Trust.
 
allocation is required to be estimated on our taxable income arising from our taxable real estate investment trust subsidiaries and international entities. A deferred tax component could arise based upon the differences in GAAP versus tax income for items such as depreciation and gain recognition. However, we believe deferred tax is an immaterial component of our consolidated balance sheet.
     Effective October 1, 2006, we deconsolidated AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., on a prospective basis, due to the re-evaluation of the accounting for our investment in the fund in light of changes to the partnership agreement regarding the general partner's rights effective October 1, 2006. As a result, our results of operations presented below are not comparable between years presented.
     The analysis below includes changes attributable to same store growth, acquisitions, development activity and divestitures. Same store properties are those that we owned during both the current and prior year reporting periods, excluding development properties stabilized after December 31, 2004 (generally defined as properties that are 90% leased or properties for which we have held a certificate of occupancy or where building has been substantially complete for at least 12 months).
     As of December 31, 2006, same store industrial properties consisted of properties aggregating approximately 71.2 million square feet. The properties acquired during 2006 consisted of 73 buildings, aggregating approximately 6.6 million square feet. The properties acquired during 2005 consisted of 41 buildings, aggregating approximately 6.9 million square feet. During 2006, property divestitures and contributions consisted of 50 buildings, aggregating approximately 7.5 million square feet. In 2005, property divestitures and contributions consisted of 150 buildings, aggregating approximately 10.6 million square feet. Our future financial condition and results of operations, including rental revenues, may be impacted by the acquisition of additional properties and dispositions. Our future revenues and expenses may vary materially from historical results.
 
For the Years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in millions)
     U.S. industrial same store revenues increased $12.3 million from the prior year despite the decrease of $12.8 million in same store revenues due to the deconsolidation of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., effective October 1, 2006, attributable primarily to improved occupancy and increased rental rates in various markets. The properties acquired during 2005 consisted of 41 buildings, aggregating approximately 6.9 million square feet. The properties acquired during 2006 consisted of 73 buildings, aggregating approximately 6.6 million square feet. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from properties that have been contributed to an unconsolidated joint venture, and accordingly are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development projects that have reached certain levels of operation and are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. Non-U.S. industrial revenues increased approximately $29.4 million from the prior year due primarily to the stabilization of three properties in Japan and the continued acquisition of properties in France, Germany and Mexico. The increase in private capital income was primarily due to increased asset management and acquisition fees from additional assets held in co-investment joint ventures, which were partially offset by a decrease in incentive distributions of approximately $3.9 million. During 2006, we received incentive distributions of $22.5 million, of which $19.8 million was from AMB Partners II, L.P., as compared to incentive distribution of $26.4 million for the sale of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund I, L.P., during 2005.
     Same store properties' operating expenses increased $6.4 million from the prior year, despite the decrease of $2.5 million in same store operating expenses due to the deconsolidation of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., effective October 1, 2006, due
 
primarily to increased insurance costs, utility expenses, repair and maintenance expenses, and other non-reimbursable expenses. The 2005 acquisitions consisted of 41 buildings, aggregating approximately 6.9 million square feet. The 2006 acquisitions consisted of 73 buildings, aggregating approximately 6.6 million square feet. Other industrial expenses include expenses from divested properties that have been contributed to an unconsolidated joint venture, and accordingly are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development properties that have reached certain levels of operation and are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. Non-U.S. industrial revenues increased approximately $6.0 million from the prior year due primarily to the stabilization of three properties in Japan and the continued acquisition of properties in France, Germany and Mexico. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was due to the increase in our net investment in real estate. The 2006 impairment loss was taken on several non-core assets as a result of leasing activities and changes in the economic environment and the holding period of certain assets. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased stock-based compensation expense as a result of higher values assigned to option and stock awards and executive departures, additional staffing and expenses for our international expansion, and the acquisition of AMB Blackpine. Other expenses decreased approximately $2.4 million from the prior year due primarily to a decrease in losses associated with our deferred compensation plan and a decrease in certain deal costs. Fund costs represent general and administrative costs paid to third parties associated with our co-investment joint ventures.
     The $12.4 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures was primarily due to gains of $17.5 million from the disposition of real estate by our unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures during 2006 as opposed to $5.5 million of such gains during 2005 and, effective October 1, 2006, and the deconsolidation of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., which resulted in an increase of approximately $5.1 million. These increases were partially offset by an increase in expenses by our unconsolidated joint ventures. The increase in other income was primarily due to increased bank interest income and an increase in property management income due to the expansion of our property management business. The 2005 gains from disposition of real estate interests resulted primarily from our contribution of $106.9 million (using the exchange rate in effect at contribution) in operating properties to our then newly formed unconsolidated co-investment joint venture, AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. Development profits represent gains from the sale of development projects and land as part of our development-for-sale program. The increase in development profits was due to increased disposition and contribution volume during 2006. During 2006, we sold five land parcels and six development projects totaling approximately 1.3 million square feet for an aggregate sale price of $86.6 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $13.3 million. In addition, during 2006, we received approximately $0.4 million in connection with the condemnation of a parcel of land resulting in a loss of $1.0 million, $0.8 million of which was the joint venture partner's share. During 2006, we also contributed a total of ten completed development projects into unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures. Four projects totaling approximately 2.6 million square feet were contributed into AMB Japan Fund I, L.P, two projects totaling approximately 0.8 million square feet were contributed into AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, three projects totaling approximately 0.6 million square feet were contributed into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., and one land parcel into AMB DFS Fund I, LLC.  As a result of these contributions, we recognized an aggregate after-tax gain of $94.1 million, representing the portion of our interest in the contributed property acquired by the third-party investors for cash. During 2005, we sold five land parcels and five development projects, aggregating approximately 0.9 million square feet for an aggregate price of $155.2 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $45.1 million. In addition, during 2005, we received final proceeds of $7.8 million from a land sale that occurred in 2004. During 2005, we also contributed one completed development project into an unconsolidated joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, and recognized an after-tax gain of $1.9 million representing the portion of our interest in the contributed property acquired by the third-party co-investor for cash. The increase in interest expense, including amortization, was due primarily to increased borrowings on unsecured credit facilities and other debt.
 
     During 2006, we divested ourselves of 39 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 3.5 million square feet, for an aggregate price of approximately $175.3 million, with a resulting net gain of approximately $42.6 million. During 2005, we divested ourselves of 142 industrial buildings and one retail center, aggregating approximately 9.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $926.6 million, with a resulting net gain of $113.6 million. Included in these divestitures is the sale of the assets of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund I, L.P., for $618.5 million. The multi-investor fund owned 100 buildings totaling approximately 5.8 million square feet. We received cash and a distribution of an on-tarmac property, AMB DFW Air Cargo Center I, in exchange for our 21% interest in the fund.
     In December 2005, we issued 3,000,000 shares of 7.0% Series O Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. In August 2006, we issued 2,000,000 shares of 6.85% Series P Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. The increase in preferred stock dividends is due to the newly issued shares. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2006, AMB Property II, L.P., one of our subsidiaries, repurchased all 840,000 of its outstanding 8.125% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units, all 220,440 of its outstanding 7.75% Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units, all 201,139 of its outstanding 7.95% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units and all 729,582 of its outstanding 5.00% Series N Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units. As a result, we recognized a decrease in income available to common stockholders of $1.1 million for the original issuance costs, net of discount on repurchase.
For the Years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in millions)
     U.S. industrial same store revenues increased $11.2 million from 2004 to 2005 on a year-to-date basis attributable primarily to improved occupancy and increased rental rates in various markets. The properties acquired during 2004 consisted of 64 buildings, aggregating approximately 7.6 million square feet. The properties acquired during 2005 consisted of 41 buildings, aggregating approximately 6.9 million square feet. Other industrial revenues include rental revenues from properties that have been contributed to an unconsolidated joint venture, and accordingly are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development projects that have reached certain levels of operation and are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. In 2004 and 2005, we continued to acquire properties in China, France, Germany, Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands, resulting in increased international industrial revenues. The increase in private capital income was primarily due to increased asset management fees from additional assets held in co-investment joint ventures and incentive distributions for 2005 of $26.4 million for the sale of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund I, asset management priority distributions from AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., and acquisition fees from AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P.
 
     Same store properties' operating expenses increased $4.0 million from 2004 to 2005 on a year-to-date basis due primarily to increased insurance costs, utility expenses, repair and maintenance expenses, and other non-reimbursable expenses. The 2004 acquisitions consisted of 64 buildings, aggregating approximately 7.6 million square feet. The 2005 acquisitions consisted of 41 buildings, aggregating approximately 6.9 million square feet. Other industrial expenses include expenses from divested properties that have been contributed to an unconsolidated joint venture, and accordingly are not classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements, and development properties that have reached certain levels of operation and are not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. In 2004 and 2005, we continued to acquire properties in China, France, Germany, Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands, resulting in increased international industrial property operating costs. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was due to the increase in our net investment in real estate during the year. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to additional staffing and expenses for new initiatives, including our international and development expansions and the expansion of satellite offices. Other expenses increased approximately $2.4 million from the prior year due primarily to greater losses on our non-qualified deferred compensation plan in 2005 and an increase in certain deal costs. Fund costs represent general and administrative costs paid to third parties associated with our co-investment joint ventures.
     The $7.0 million increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures was primarily due to a gain of $5.4 million from the disposition of real estate by one of our unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures during the second quarter of 2005. The increase in other income was primarily due to increased bank interest income. The 2005 gains from disposition of real estate interests resulted primarily from our contribution of $106.9 million (using exchange rate in effect at contribution) in operating properties to our newly formed unconsolidated co-investment joint venture, AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. The 2004 gains from disposition of real estate interests resulted from our contribution of $71.5 million in operating properties to our unconsolidated co-investment joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC. Development profits represent gains from the sale of development projects and land as part of our development-for-sale program. The increase in development profits was due to increased volume in 2005. During 2005, we sold five land parcels and five development projects, aggregating approximately 0.9 million square feet for an aggregate price of $155.2
 
million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $45.1 million. In addition, during 2005, we received final proceeds of $7.8 million from a land sale that occurred in 2004. During 2005, we also contributed one completed development project into an unconsolidated joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, and recognized an after-tax gain of $1.9 million representing the portion of our interest in the contributed property acquired by the third-party co-investor for cash. During 2004, we sold seven land parcels and six development projects as part of our development-for-sale program, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet for an aggregate price of $40.4 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $6.5 million. During 2004, we also contributed one completed development project into a newly formed unconsolidated joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, and recognized an after-tax gain of $2.0 million representing the portion of our interest in the contributed property acquired by the third-party co-investor for cash.
     During 2005, we divested ourselves of 142 industrial buildings and one retail center, aggregating approximately 9.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of approximately $926.6 million, with a resulting net gain of approximately $113.6 million. Included in these divestitures is the sale of the assets of AMB Alliance Fund I for $618.5 million. The multi-investor fund owned 100 buildings totaling approximately 5.8 million square feet. We received cash and a distribution of an on-tarmac property, AMB DFW Air Cargo Center I, in exchange for our 21% interest in the fund. During 2004, we divested ourselves of 21 industrial buildings, two retail centers and one office building, aggregating approximately 3.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $200.3 million, with a resulting net gain of $42.0 million.
     In December 2005, we issued 3,000,000 shares of 7.0% Series O Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. The increase in preferred stock dividends is due to the newly issued shares.
     In general, we use unsecured lines of credit, unsecured notes, preferred stock and common equity (issued by us and/or the operating partnership and its subsidiaries) to capitalize our 100%-owned assets. Over time, we plan to retire non-recourse, secured debt encumbering our 100%-owned assets and replace that debt with unsecured notes. In managing our co-investment joint ventures, in general, we use non-recourse, secured debt to capitalize our co-investment joint ventures.
Balance Sheet Strategy.
     We currently expect that our principal sources of working capital and funding for acquisitions, development, expansion and renovation of properties will include:
     We currently expect that our principal funding requirements will include:
 
     As of December 31, 2006, cash provided by operating activities was $335.9 million as compared to $295.8 million for the same period in 2005. This change is primarily due to increases in rental rates, partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses primarily due to additional staffing and expenses for new initiatives, including our international and development expansions and increased occupancy costs related to the expansion of regional offices. Cash used for investing activities was $880.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to cash used for investing activities of $60.4 million for the same period in 2005. This change is primarily due to an increase in funds used for property acquisitions and capital expenditures, and a decrease in proceeds from property divestitures (mainly due to the divesture of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund I, L.P., portfolio in 2005), offset by less funds used for additions to interests in unconsolidated joint ventures and an increase in capital distributions received from unconsolidated joint ventures. Cash provided by financing activities was $483.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to cash used in financing activities of $101.9 million for the same period in 2005. This change is due primarily to an increase in borrowings, net of repayments, issuance of common stock upon the exercise of options and issuances of preferred stock, offset by the cost of the repurchase of preferred units for the year ended December 31, 2006.
Cash flows.
     We believe that our sources of working capital, specifically our cash flow from operations, borrowings available under our unsecured credit facilities and our ability to access private and public debt and equity capital, are adequate for us to meet our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. The unavailability of capital could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.
Capital Resources
     During 2006, we divested ourselves of 39 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 3.5 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $175.3 million, with a resulting net gain of $42.6 million.
Property Divestitures.
     During 2006, we sold five land parcels and six development projects totaling approximately 1.3 million square feet for an aggregate sale price of $86.6 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $13.3 million. In addition, during 2006, we received approximately $0.4 million in connection with the condemnation of a parcel of land resulting in a loss of $1.0 million, $0.8 million of which was the joint venture partner's share.
Development Sales.
     During 2006, we contributed a total of nine completed development projects and one land parcel into unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures. Four projects totaling approximately 2.6 million square feet were contributed into AMB Japan Fund I, L.P, two projects totaling approximately 0.8 million square feet were contributed into AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, and three projects totaling approximately 0.6 million square feet were contributed into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. In addition, one land parcel was contributed into AMB DFS Fund I, LLC.  As a result of these contributions, we recognized an aggregate after-tax gain of $94.1 million, representing the portion of our interest in the contributed property acquired by the third-party investors for cash. These gains are included in development profits, net of taxes, in the statement of operations.
Development Contributions.
     As of December 31, 2006, we held for contribution to co-investment joint ventures, nine industrial projects with an aggregate net book value of $154.0 million, which, when contributed to a joint venture, will reduce our current ownership interest from approximately 100% to an expected range of 15-50%.
Properties Held for Contribution.
     As of December 31, 2006, we held for divestiture four industrial projects, which are not in our core markets, do not meet our current strategic objectives or which we have included as part of our development-for-sale program. The divestitures of the properties are subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and other customary conditions. As of December 31, 2006, the net carrying value of the properties held for divestiture was $20.9 million. Expected net sales proceeds exceed the net carrying value of the properties.
Properties Held for Divestiture.
 
     Through the operating partnership, we enter into co-investment joint ventures with institutional investors. These co-investment joint ventures are managed by our private capital group and provide us with an additional source of capital to fund certain acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. We generally consolidate these joint ventures for financial reporting purposes because they are not variable interest entities and because we are the sole managing general partner and control all major operating decisions. However, in certain cases, our co-investment joint ventures are unconsolidated because we do not control all major operating decisions and the general partners do not have significant rights under EITF 04-5.
Co-investment Joint Ventures.
     Third-party equity interests in the joint ventures are reflected as minority interests in the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2006, we owned approximately 64.3 million square feet of our properties (51.6% of the total operating and development portfolio) through our consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. We may make additional investments through these joint ventures or new joint ventures in the future and presently plan to do so. Our consolidated co-investment joint ventures at December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands):
 
     Our unconsolidated joint ventures at December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
     We also have a 0.1% unconsolidated equity interest (with an approximate 33% economic interest) in AMB Pier One, LLC, a joint venture related to the 2000 redevelopment of the pier which houses our office space in the San Francisco Bay Area. The investment is not consolidated because we do not exercise control over major operating decisions such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers, investment activity and changes in financing. We have an option to purchase the remaining equity interest beginning January 1, 2007 and expiring December 31, 2009, based on the fair market value as stipulated in the joint venture agreement. As of December 31, 2006, we also had an approximate 39.0% unconsolidated equity interest in G.Accion, a Mexican real estate company. G.Accion provides management and development services for industrial, retail, residential and office properties in Mexico. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, one of our subsidiaries also had an approximate 5% interest in IAT Air Cargo Facilities Income Fund (IAT), a Canadian income trust specializing in aviation-related real estate at Canada's leading international airports. This equity investment is included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
          We have authorized for issuance 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which the following series were designated as of December 31, 2006: 1,595,337 shares of series D preferred; 510,000 shares of series I cumulative redeemable preferred; 800,000 shares of series J cumulative redeemable preferred; 800,000 shares of series K cumulative redeemable preferred; 2,300,000 shares of series L cumulative redeemable preferred, of which 2,000,000 are outstanding; 2,300,000 shares of series M cumulative redeemable preferred, all of which are outstanding; 3,000,000 shares of series O cumulative redeemable preferred, all of which are outstanding; and 2,000,000 shares of series P cumulative redeemable preferred, all of which are outstanding.
Common and Preferred Equity.
     On November 1, 2006, AMB Property II, L.P., issued 1,130,835 of its class B common limited partnership units in connection with a property acquisition.
     On September 21, 2006, AMB Property II, L.P., repurchased all 201,139 of its outstanding 7.95% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units from a single institutional investor for an aggregate price of $10.0 million, including accrued and unpaid distributions. In connection with this repurchase, we reclassified all of our 267,439 shares of 7.95% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock as preferred stock.
     On June 30, 2006, AMB Property II, L.P., repurchased all 220,440 of its outstanding 7.75% Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units from a single institutional investor for an aggregate price of $10.9 million, including accrued and unpaid distributions. In connection with this repurchase, we reclassified all of our 220,440 shares of 7.75% Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock as preferred stock.
     On March 21, 2006, AMB Property II, L.P., repurchased all 840,000 of its outstanding 8.125% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units from a single institutional investor for an aggregate price of $42.8 million, including accrued and unpaid distributions. In connection with this repurchase, we reclassified all of our 840,000 shares of 8.125% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock as preferred stock.
     On September 24, 2004, AMB Property II, L.P., a partnership in which Texas AMB I, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and our indirect subsidiary, owns an approximate 8.0% general partnership interest and the operating partnership owns an approximate 92% common limited partnership interest, issued 729,582 5.00% Series N Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units at a price of $50.00 per unit. The series N preferred units were issued to Robert Pattillo Properties, Inc. in exchange for the contribution to AMB Property II, L.P of certain parcels of land that are located in multiple markets. Effective January 27, 2006, Robert Pattillo Properties, Inc. exercised its rights under its Put Agreement, dated September 24, 2004, with the operating partnership, and sold all of the series N preferred units to the operating partnership for an aggregate price of $36.6 million, including accrued and unpaid distributions. Also on January 27, 2006, AMB Property II, L.P. repurchased all of the series N preferred units from the operating partnership at an aggregate price of $36.6 million and cancelled all of the outstanding series N preferred units as of such date.
 
     As of December 31, 2006, $145.3 million in preferred units with a weighted average rate of 7.85%, issued by the operating partnership, were callable under the terms of the partnership agreement and $40.0 million in preferred units with a weighted average rate of 7.95% become callable in 2007.
     On August 25, 2006, we issued and sold 2,000,000 shares of 6.85% Series P Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.7125 per annum. The series P preferred stock is redeemable by us on or after August 25, 2011, subject to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the redemption date. We contributed the net proceeds of approximately $48.1 million to the operating partnership, and in exchange, the operating partnership issued to us 2,000,000 6.85% Series P Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.
     On December 13, 2005, we issued and sold 3,000,000 shares of 7.00% Series O Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.75 per annum. The series O preferred stock is redeemable by us on or after December 13, 2010, subject to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the redemption date. We contributed the net proceeds of approximately $72.3 million to the operating partnership, and in exchange, the operating partnership issued to us 3,000,000 7.00% Series O Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.
     On November 25, 2003, we issued and sold 2,300,000 shares of 6.75% Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.6875 per annum. The series M preferred stock is redeemable by us on or after November 25, 2008, subject to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the redemption date. We contributed the net proceeds of approximately $55.4 million to the operating partnership, and in exchange, the operating partnership issued to us 2,300,000 6.75% Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.
     On June 23, 2003, we issued and sold 2,000,000 shares of 6.5% Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at a price of $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.625 per annum. The series L preferred stock is redeemable by us on or after June 23, 2008, subject to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the redemption date. We contributed the net proceeds of approximately $48.0 million to the operating partnership, and in exchange, the operating partnership issued to us 2,000,000 6.5% Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units. The operating partnership used the proceeds, in addition to proceeds previously contributed to the operating partnership from other equity issuances, to redeem all 3,995,800 of its 8.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units from us on July 28, 2003. We, in turn, used those proceeds to redeem all 3,995,800 of our 8.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock for $100.2 million, including all accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, to the redemption date.
     In December 2005, our board of directors approved a new two-year common stock repurchase program for the repurchase of up to $200.0 million of our common stock. We did not repurchase or retire any shares of our common stock during the year ended December 31, 2006.
     In order to maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, we presently intend to operate with an our share of total debt-to-our share of total market capitalization ratio of approximately 45% or less. As of December 31, 2006, our share of total debt-to-our share of total market capitalization ratio was 34.2%. (See footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table below for our definitions of "our share of total market capitalization," "market equity" and "our share of total debt.") However, we typically finance our co-investment joint ventures with secured debt at a loan-to-value ratio of 50-65% per our joint venture agreements. Additionally, we currently intend to manage our capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating on our senior unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, our organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. Accordingly, our management could alter or eliminate these policies without stockholder approval or circumstances could arise that could render us unable to comply with these policies.
Debt.
     As of December 31, 2006, the aggregate principal amount of our secured debt was $1.4 billion, excluding unamortized debt premiums of $6.3 million. Of the $1.4 billion of secured debt, $1.0 billion is secured by properties in our joint ventures. The secured debt is generally non-recourse and bears interest at rates varying from 2.9% to 10.4% per annum (with a weighted average rate of 6.2%) and final maturity dates ranging from February 2007 to January 2025. As of December 31, 2006, $1.0 billion of the secured debt obligations bear interest at fixed rates with a weighted average interest rate of 6.1%, while the remaining $386.1 million bear interest at variable rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 4.7%).
 
     As of December 31, 2006, the operating partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.1 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.2% and had a weighted average term of 4.8 years. These unsecured senior debt securities include $300.0 million in notes issued in June 1998, $225.0 million of medium-term notes, which were issued under the operating partnership's 2000 medium-term note program, $275.0 million of medium-term notes, which were issued under the operating partnership's 2002 medium-term note program, $175.0 million of medium-term notes, which were issued under the operating partnership's 2006 medium term-note program and approximately $112.5 million of 5.094% Notes Due 2015, which were issued to Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America on July 11, 2005 in a private placement, in exchange for the cancellation of $100.0 million of notes that were issued in June 1998 resulting in a discount of approximately $12.5 million. The unsecured senior debt securities are subject to various covenants. Also included is a $25.0 million promissory note which matures in January 2007.
     We guarantee the operating partnership's obligations with respect to its senior debt securities. If we are unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then our cash flow may be insufficient to pay dividends to our stockholders in all years and to repay debt upon maturity. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased interest expense would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.
     . On June 1, 2006, the operating partnership entered into a third amended and restated $550.0 million unsecured revolving credit agreement that replaced its then-existing $500.0 million credit facility, which was to mature on June 1, 2007. We are a guarantor of the operating partnership's obligations under the credit facility. The line, which matures on June 1, 2010, carries a one-year extension option and can be increased to up to $700.0 million upon certain conditions. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, based on the operating partnership's long-term debt rating, which was 42.5 basis points as of December 31, 2006, with an annual facility fee of 15 basis points. The four-year credit facility includes a multi-currency component, under which up to $550.0 million can be drawn in U.S. dollars, Euros, Yen or British Pounds Sterling. The operating partnership uses its unsecured credit facility principally for acquisitions, funding development activity and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance on the credit facility was $303.7 million and the remaining amount available was $234.6 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $11.7 million. The outstanding balance included borrowings denominated in Euros, which, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2006, equaled approximately $303.7 million U.S. dollars.
Credit Facilities
     On June 23, 2006, AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the operating partnership and as the initial borrower, entered into an amended and restated revolving credit agreement for a 45.0 billion Yen unsecured revolving credit facility, which, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2006, equaled approximately $377.9 million U.S. dollars. This replaced the 35.0 billion Yen unsecured revolving credit facility executed on June 29, 2004, as previously amended, which using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2006, equaled approximately $293.9 million U.S. dollars. We, along with the operating partnership, guarantee the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K. under the credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the operating partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and for other real estate purposes in Japan, China and South Korea. Generally, borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility with certain real estate assets or equity in entities holding such real estate assets. The credit facility matures in June 2010 and has a one-year extension option. The credit facility can be increased to up to 55.0 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2006, equaled approximately $461.9 million U.S. dollars. The extension option is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.15% of the outstanding commitments under the facility at that time. The rate on the borrowings is generally TIBOR plus a margin, which is based on the credit rating of the operating partnership's long-term debt and was 42.5 basis points as of December 31, 2006. In addition, there is an annual facility fee, payable in quarterly amounts, which is based on the credit rating of the operating partnership's long-term debt, and was 15 basis points of the outstanding commitments under the facility as of December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2006, was $320.9 million in U.S. dollars.
     On June 13, 2006, the operating partnership and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries entered into a fourth amended and restated credit agreement for a $250.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which replaced the third amended and restated credit agreement for a $250.0 million unsecured credit facility. On February 16, 2006, the third amended and restated credit agreement replaced the then-existing $100.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility that was to mature in June 2008. We, along with the operating partnership, guarantee the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by us or the operating partnership
 
that are selected by the operating partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to the credit facility. The four-year credit facility includes a multi-currency component under which up to $250.0 million can be drawn in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Singapore dollars, Canadian dollars and Euros. The line, which matures in February 2010 and carries a one-year extension option, can be increased to up to $350.0 million upon certain conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.15% of the outstanding commitments. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, based on the credit rating of the operating partnership's senior unsecured long-term debt, which was 60 basis points as of December 31, 2006, with an annual facility fee based on the credit rating of the operating partnership's senior unsecured long-term debt. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance on this facility was approximately $227.4 million. The credit agreement contains affirmative covenants, including financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios by the operating partnership, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations.
     Through a wholly owned subsidiary, we hold a mortgage loan receivable on AMB Pier One, LLC, an unconsolidated joint venture. The note bears interest at 13.0% and matures in May 2026. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance on the note was $12.7 million. We also hold a loan receivable on G. Accion, an unconsolidated joint venture totaling $6.1 million with an interest rate of 10.0%. The loan matures in March 2010.
Mortgages Receivable.
     The tables below summarize our debt maturities and capitalization and reconcile our share of total debt to total consolidated debt as of December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
Liquidity
     As of December 31, 2006, we had $174.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $314.2 million of additional available borrowings under our credit facilities. As of December 31, 2006, we had $21.1 million in restricted cash.
     Our board of directors declared a regular cash dividend for the quarter ended December 31, 2006 of $0.46 per share of common stock, and the operating partnership announced its intention to pay a regular cash distribution for the quarter ended December 31, 2006 of $0.46 per common unit. The dividends and distributions were payable on January 5, 2007 to stockholders and unitholders of record on December 22, 2006. The series L, M, O and P preferred stock dividends were payable on January 16, 2007 to stockholders of record on January 5, 2007. The series J and K preferred unit quarterly distributions were payable on January 16, 2007. The series D and I preferred unit quarterly distributions were paid on December 25, 2006. The following table sets forth the dividends and distributions paid or payable per share or unit for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
 
     The anticipated size of our distributions, using only cash from operations, will not allow us to retire all of our debt as it comes due. Therefore, we intend to also repay maturing debt with net proceeds from future debt or equity financings, as well as property divestitures. However, we may not be able to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all. Our inability to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.
 
Capital Commitments
     During the year ended December 31, 2006, we initiated 30 new industrial development projects in North America, Europe and Asia with a total expected investment of $914.3 million, aggregating approximately 10.4 million square feet. During 2005, we initiated 30 new industrial development projects in North America, Europe and Asia with a total expected investment of $522.4 million, aggregating approximately 7.0 million square feet.
Development Starts.
     As of December 31, 2006, we had 45 industrial projects in our development pipeline, which will total approximately 13.7 million square feet, and will have an aggregate estimated investment of $1.3 billion upon completion. We have an additional ten development projects available for sale or contribution totaling approximately 3.0 million square feet, with an aggregate estimated investment of $199.2 million. One of these ten projects totaling $13.0 million and approximately 0.2 million square feet is held in an unconsolidated joint venture. As of December 31, 2006, we and our joint venture partners had funded an aggregate of $814.5 million and needed to fund an estimated additional $481.0 million in order to complete our development pipeline which includes projects expected to be completed through the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2006, we acquired 835 acres of land for industrial warehouse development in North America and Asia for approximately $293.2 million.
Development Pipeline.
     During 2006, we acquired 106 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 9.8 million square feet for a total expected investment of $834.2 million (includes acquisition costs of $814.1 million and estimated acquisition capital of $20.1 million), of which we acquired 70 buildings through one of our unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures. We generally fund our acquisitions through private capital contributions, borrowings under our credit facilities, cash, debt issuances and net proceeds from property divestitures.
Acquisitions.
     We have entered into operating ground leases on certain land parcels, primarily on-tarmac facilities and office space with remaining lease terms from one to 55 years. These buildings and improvements are amortized ratably over the lesser of the terms of the related leases or 40 years. Future minimum rental payments required under non-cancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 2006 were as follows (dollars in thousands):
Lease Commitments.
     Through the operating partnership, we enter into co-investment joint ventures with institutional investors. These co-investment joint ventures are managed by our private capital group and provide us with an additional source of capital to fund acquisitions, development projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital income. As of December 31, 2006, we had investments in co-investment joint ventures with a gross book value of $1.9 billion, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, and net equity investments in four unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures of $236.0 million and a gross book value of $2.5 billion. As of December 31, 2006, we may make additional capital contributions to current and planned co-investment joint ventures of up to $168.2 million (using the exchange rates at December 31, 2006) pursuant to the terms of the joint venture agreements. From time to time, we may raise additional equity commitments for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an open-ended unconsolidated co-investment joint venture formed in 2004 with institutional investors, which invests through a private real estate investment trust. This would increase our obligation to make additional capital commitments. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of this fund, we are obligated to contribute 20% of the total equity commitments to the fund until such time our total equity commitment is greater than $150.0 million, at which time, our obligation is reduced to 10% of the total equity commitments. We expect to fund these contributions with cash from operations, borrowings under our credit facilities, debt or equity issuances or net proceeds from property divestitures, which could adversely effect our cash flow.
Co-investment Joint Ventures.
     In December 2001, we formed a wholly owned captive insurance company, Arcata National Insurance Ltd., (Arcata), which provides insurance coverage for all or a portion of losses below the deductible under our third-party policies. The captive insurance company is one element of our overall risk management program. We capitalized Arcata in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. Arcata established annual premiums based on projections derived from the past loss experience of our properties. Annually, we engage an independent third party to perform an actuarial estimate of future
Captive Insurance Company.
 
projected claims, related deductibles and projected expenses necessary to fund associated risk management programs. Premiums paid to Arcata may be adjusted based on this estimate. Like premiums paid to third-party insurance companies, premiums paid to Arcata may be reimbursed by customers pursuant to specific lease terms. Through this structure, we believe that we have more comprehensive insurance coverage at an overall lower cost than would otherwise be available in the market.
     Contingent and unknown liabilities may include the following:
Potential Contingent and Unknown Liabilities.
Overview of Contractual Obligations
     The following table summarizes our debt, interest and lease payments due by period as of December 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands):
     As of December 31, 2006, we had provided approximately $22.1 million in letters of credit, of which $11.7 million was provided under the operating partnership's $550.0 million unsecured credit facility. The letters of credit were required to be issued under certain ground lease provisions, bank guarantees and other commitments.
Standby Letters of Credit.
     Other than parent guarantees associated with the unsecured debt, as of December 31, 2006we had outstanding guarantees in the aggregate amount of $48.2 million in connection with certain acquisitions. As of December 31, 2006, we guaranteed $26.8 million and $83.2 million on outstanding loans on two of our consolidated joint ventures and two of our unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, we guaranteed $87.3 million on outstanding property debt related to one of our unconsolidated joint ventures.
Guarantees.
,
     As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding performance and surety bonds in an aggregate amount of $11.4 million. These bonds were issued in connection with certain of our development projects and were posted to guarantee certain tax obligations and the construction of certain real property improvements and infrastructure, such as grading, sewers and streets. Performance and surety bonds are commonly required by public agencies from real estate developers. Performance and surety bonds are renewable and expire upon the payment of the taxes due or the completion of the improvements and infrastructure.
Performance and Surety Bonds.
     Upon the achievement of certain return thresholds and the occurrence of certain events, we may be obligated to make payments to certain of our joint venture partners pursuant to the terms and provisions of their contractual agreements with us. From time to time in the normal course of our business, we enter into various contracts with third parties that may obligate us to make payments, pay promotes, or perform other obligations upon the occurrence of certain events.
Promoted Interests and Other Contractual Obligations.
 
     We believe that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, we consider funds from operations, or FFO, as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT), to be a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance. FFO is defined as net income, calculated in accordance with GAAP, less gains (or losses) from dispositions of real estate held for investment purposes and real estate-related depreciation, and adjustments to derive our pro rata share of FFO of consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. Further, we do not adjust FFO to eliminate the effects of non-recurring charges. We believe that FFO, as defined by NAREIT, is a meaningful supplemental measure of our operating performance because historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market and other conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. Thus, NAREIT created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for real estate investment trusts that excludes historical cost depreciation and amortization, among other items, from net income, as defined by GAAP. We believe that the use of FFO, combined with the required GAAP presentations, has been beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of real estate investment trusts among the investing public and making comparisons of operating results among such companies more meaningful. We consider FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing our comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate depreciation and amortization, FFO can help the investing public compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to other companies.
FFO.
     While FFO is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to those measures in evaluating our liquidity or operating performance. FFO also does not consider the costs associated with capital expenditures related to our real estate assets nor is FFO necessarily indicative of cash available to fund our future cash requirements. Further, our computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other real estate investment trusts that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently than we do.
     The following table reflects the calculation of FFO reconciled from net income for the years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
     We believe that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, we consider same store net operating income, or SS NOI, to be a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance. For properties that are considered part of the same store pool, see Part I, Item 2: "Properties  Industrial Properties  Owned and Managed Market Operating Statistics", Note 6, and "Owned and Managed Operating and Leasing Statistics  Owned and Managed Same Store Operating Statistics", Note 2. In deriving SS NOI, we define NOI as rental revenues (as calculated in accordance with GAAP), including reimbursements, less straight-line rents, property operating expenses and real estate taxes. We exclude straight-line rents in calculating SS NOI because we believe it provides a better measure of actual cash basis rental growth for a year-over-year comparison. In addition, we believe that SS NOI helps the investing public compare the operating performance of a company's real estate as compared to other companies. 
SS NOI.
     While SS NOI is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to those measures in evaluating our liquidity or operating performance. SS NOI also does not reflect general and administrative expense, interest expenses, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact our results from operations. Further, our computation of SS NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating SS NOI.
     The following table reconciles SS NOI from net income for the years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands):
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.4
     
Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
     Financial Statements of AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. are not included because no adjustments or updates are needed to the information presented in our annual report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2006, which was filed on October 26, 2007.
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of AMB Property Corporation:
We have completed integrated audits of AMB Property Corporation's consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.
Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing in Exhibit 99.4 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of AMB Property Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing in Exhibit 99.4 presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
As discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, on January 1, 2006.
Internal control over financial reporting
Also, in our opinion, management's assessment, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, in the 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 based on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in issued by the COSO. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management's assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP San Francisco, California
February 23, 2007, except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements insofar as it relates to the effects of discontinued operations and the change in the presentation of segment information as discussed in Notes 17 and 16, respectively, as to which the date is November 14, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
1. Organization and Formation of the Company
     AMB Property Corporation, a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), commenced operations as a fully integrated real estate company effective with the completion of its initial public offering on November 26, 1997. The Company elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (REIT) under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (the "Code"), commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 1997, and believes its current organization and method of operation will enable it to maintain its status as a REIT. The Company, through its controlling interest in its subsidiary, AMB Property, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Operating Partnership"), is engaged in the acquisition, development and operation of industrial properties in key distribution markets throughout North America, Europe and Asia. The Company uses the terms "industrial properties" or "industrial buildings" to describe various types of industrial properties in its portfolio and uses these terms interchangeably with the following: logistics facilities, centers or warehouses; distribution facilities, centers or warehouses; High Throughput Distribution (HTD) facilities; or any combination of these terms. The Company uses the term "owned and managed" to describe assets in which it has at least a 10% ownership interest, for which it is the property or asset manager, and which it intends to hold for the long-term. Unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company" means AMB Property Corporation, the Operating Partnership and their other controlled subsidiaries.
     As of December 31, 2006, the Company owned an approximate 95.0% general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, excluding preferred units. The remaining approximate 5.0% common limited partnership interests are owned by non-affiliated investors and certain current and former directors and officers of the Company. As the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, the Company has full, exclusive and complete responsibility and discretion in the day-to-day management and control of the Operating Partnership. Net operating results of the Operating Partnership are allocated after preferred unit distributions based on the respective partners' ownership interests. Certain properties are owned by the Company through limited partnerships, limited liability companies and other entities. The ownership of such properties through such entities does not materially affect the Company's overall ownership interests in the properties.
     Through the Operating Partnership, the Company enters into co-investment joint ventures with institutional investors. These co-investment joint ventures provide the Company with an additional source of capital and income. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had investments in five consolidated and four unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures. Effective October 1, 2006, the Company deconsolidated AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an open-ended co-investment partnership formed in 2004 with institutional investors, on a prospective basis, due to the re-evaluation of the Company's accounting for its investment in the fund in light of changes to the partnership agreement regarding the general partner's rights effective October 1, 2006.
     Any references to the number of buildings, square footage, customers and occupancy in the financial statement footnotes are unaudited.
     AMB Capital Partners, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("AMB Capital Partners"), provides real estate investment services to clients on a fee basis. Headlands Realty Corporation, a Maryland corporation, conducts a variety of businesses that include development projects available for sale or contribution to third parties and incremental income programs. IMD Holding Corporation, a Delaware corporation, conducts a variety of businesses that also includes development projects available for sale or contribution to third parties. AMB Capital Partners, Headlands Realty Corporation and IMD Holding Corporation are wholly-owned direct or indirect subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership.
     As of December 31, 2006, the Company owned or had investments in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated joint ventures, properties and development projects expected to total approximately 124.7 million rentable square feet (11.6 million square meters) and 1,108 buildings in 39 markets within twelve countries. Additionally, as of December 31, 2006, the Company managed, but did not have a significant ownership interest in, industrial and other properties, totaling approximately 1.5 million rentable square feet. The Company's investment strategy generally targets customers whose business is tied to global trade, which according to the World Trade Organization, has grown more than three times the world domestic product growth rate during the last 20 years. To serve the facility needs of these customers, the Company seeks to invest in major distribution markets, transportation hubs and gateways, that generally are tied to global trade, both in the U.S. and internationally.
 
     Of the approximately 124.7 million rentable square feet as of December 31, 2006:
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
     These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company, its wholly-owned qualified REIT and taxable REIT subsidiaries, the Operating Partnership and joint ventures, in which the Company has a controlling interest. Third-party equity interests in the Operating Partnership and joint ventures are reflected as minority interests in the consolidated financial statements. The Company also has non-controlling partnership interests in unconsolidated real estate joint ventures, which are accounted for under the equity method. All significant intercompany amounts have been eliminated.
Basis of Presentation.
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Use of Estimates.
     Certain items in the consolidated financial statements for prior periods have been reclassified to conform to current classifications.
Reclassifications.
     Investments in real estate and leasehold interests are stated at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost cannot be recovered, in which case, the carrying value of the property is reduced to estimated fair value. The Company also regularly reviews the impact of above or below-market leases, in-place leases and lease origination costs for all new acquisitions, and records an intangible asset or liability accordingly. Carrying values for financial reporting purposes are reviewed for impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may not be fully recoverable. Impairment is recognized when estimated expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) are less than the carrying value of the property. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future economics and market conditions and the availability of capital. If impairment analysis assumptions change, then an adjustment to the carrying value of the Company's long-lived assets could occur in the future period in which the assumptions change. To the extent that a property is impaired, the excess of the carrying amount of the property over its estimated fair value is charged to earnings. As a result of leasing activity and the economic environment, the Company re-evaluated the carrying value of its investments and recorded impairment charges of $6.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2006 on certain of its investments.
Investments in Real Estate.
     Depreciation and amortization are calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the real estate investments. Investments that are located on-tarmac, which is land owned by federal, state or local airport authorities, and subject to ground leases are depreciated over the lesser of 40 years or the contractual term of the underlying ground lease. The estimated lives and components of depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31 are as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
     The cost of buildings and improvements includes the purchase price of the property or interest in property, including legal fees and acquisition costs. Project costs directly associated with the development and construction of a real estate project, which include interest and property taxes, are capitalized as construction in progress. Capitalized interest related to construction projects for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $42.9 million, $29.5 million and $18.7 million, respectively.
     Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Maintenance expenditures include painting and repair costs. The Company expenses costs as incurred and does not accrue in advance of planned major maintenance activities. Significant renovations or betterments that extend the economic useful life of assets are capitalized and include parking lot, HVAC and roof replacement costs.
     Minority interests represent the limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership and interests held by certain third parties in several real estate joint ventures, which own properties aggregating approximately 36.1 million square feet, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Such investments are consolidated because the Company exercises significant control over major operating decisions such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers, asset management, investment activity and changes in financing.
Investments in Consolidated and Unconsolidated Joint Ventures.
     The Company holds interests in both consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. The Company determines consolidation based on standards set forth in EITF 04-5, or FASB Interpretation No. 46R, "FIN 46". Based on the guidance set forth in EITF 04-5, the Company consolidates certain joint venture investments because it exercises significant control over major operating decisions, such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers, asset management, investment activity and changes in financing. For joint ventures that are variable interest entities as defined under FIN 46 where the Company is not the primary beneficiary, it does not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes. For joint ventures under EITF 04-5, where the Company does not exercise significant control over major operating and management decisions, but where it exercises significant influence, the Company uses the equity method of accounting and does not consolidate the joint venture for financial reporting purposes.
Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
     In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, ("SFAS 150"). This Statement establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. It requires that an issuer classify a financial instrument that is within its scope as a liability (or an asset in some circumstances). SFAS 150 was effective beginning in the third quarter of 2003; however, the FASB deferred the implementation of SFAS 150 as it applied to certain minority interests in finite-lived entities indefinitely. The disclosure requirements for certain minority interests in finite-lived entities still apply. The Company adopted the requirements of SFAS 150 in the third quarter of 2003, and, considering the aforementioned deferral, there was no impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, the minority interests associated with certain of the Company's consolidated joint ventures, that have finite lives under the terms of the partnership agreements represent mandatorily redeemable interests as defined in SFAS 150. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the aggregate book value of these minority interests in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet was $555.2 million and $853.6 million, respectively, and the Company believes that the aggregate settlement value of these interests was approximately $1.0 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. This amount is based on the estimated liquidation values of the assets and liabilities and the resulting proceeds that the Company would distribute to its joint venture partners
Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity
 
upon dissolution, as required under the terms of the respective partnership agreements. Subsequent changes to the estimated fair values of the assets and liabilities of the consolidated joint ventures will affect the Company's estimate of the aggregate settlement value. The partnership agreements do not limit the amount that the minority partners would be entitled to in the event of liquidation of the assets and liabilities and dissolution of the respective partnerships.
     Cash and cash equivalents include cash held in financial institutions and other highly liquid short-term investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Cash and Cash Equivalents.
     Restricted cash includes cash held in escrow in connection with property purchases, Section 1031 exchange accounts and debt or real estate tax payments.
Restricted Cash.
     Through a wholly-owned subsidiary, the Company holds a mortgage loan receivable of $12.7 million on AMB Pier One, LLC, an unconsolidated joint venture. The Company also holds a loan receivable of $6.1 million on G. Accion, an unconsolidated investment. The book value of the mortgages approximates fair value.
Mortgages and Loans Receivable.
     Accounts receivable includes all current accounts receivable, net of allowances, other accruals and deferred rent receivable of $64.6 million and $66.7 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company regularly reviews the credit worthiness of its customers and adjusts its allowance for doubtful accounts, straight-line rent receivable balance and tenant improvement and leasing costs amortization accordingly.
Accounts Receivable.
     Other real estate companies compete with the Company in its real estate markets. This results in competition for customers to occupy space. The existence of competing properties could have a material impact on the Company's ability to lease space and on the amount of rent received. As of December 31, 2006, the Company does not have any material concentration of credit risk due to the diversification of its customers.
Concentration of Credit Risk.
     Costs incurred in connection with financings are capitalized and amortized to interest expense using the straight-line method over the term of the related loan. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, deferred financing costs were $20.4 million and $25.0 million, respectively, net of accumulated amortization.
Deferred Financing Costs.
     The Company has classified as goodwill the cost in excess of fair value of the net assets of companies acquired in purchase transactions. As prescribed in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets", (SFAS 142) goodwill and certain indefinite lived intangible assets, including excess reorganization value and certain trademarks, are no longer amortized, but are subject to at least annual impairment testing. The Company tests annually (or more often, if necessary) for impairment under SFAS No. 142. The Company determined that there was no impairment to goodwill and intangible assets during the year ended December 31, 2006.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
     SFAS No. 133, provides comprehensive guidelines for the recognition and measurement of derivatives and hedging activities and, specifically, requires all derivatives to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability, with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. For revenues or expenses denominated in nonfunctional currencies, the Company may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. The Company's derivative financial instruments in effect at December 31, 2006 were three interest rate swaps hedging cash flows of our variable rate borrowings based on U.S. Libor (USD) and Euribor (Europe). Adjustments to the fair value of these instruments for the year ended December 31, 2006 resulted in a gain of $0.6 million. This gain is included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet and accumulated other comprehensive loss in the consolidated statements of stockholders' equity.
Financial Instruments.
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and for Hedging Activities,
     The Company's debt includes both fixed and variable rate secured debt, unsecured fixed rate debt, unsecured variable rate debt and credit facilities. Based on borrowing rates available to the Company at December 31, 2006, the book value and the estimated fair value of the total debt (both secured and unsecured) was $3.4 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively. The carrying value of the variable rate debt approximates fair value.
Debt.
     Debt premiums represent the excess of the fair value of debt over the principal value of debt assumed in connection with the Company's initial public offering and subsequent property acquisitions. The debt premiums are being amortized as an offset to interest expense over the term of the related debt instrument using the straight-line method. As of December 31, 2006
Debt Premiums.
 
and 2005, the net unamortized debt premium was $6.3 million and $12.0 million, respectively, and are included as a component of secured debt on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
     The Company, as a lessor, retains substantially all of the benefits and risks of ownership of the properties and accounts for its leases as operating leases. Rental income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases. Reimbursements from customers for real estate taxes and other recoverable operating expenses are recognized as revenue in the period the applicable expenses are incurred. The Company also records lease termination fees when a customer terminates its lease by executing a definitive termination agreement with the Company, vacates the premises and the payment of the termination fee is not subject to any conditions that must be met before the fee is due to the Company. In addition, the Company nets its allowance for doubtful accounts against rental income for financial reporting purposes. Such amounts totaled $2.9 million, $3.2 million and $1.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Rental Revenues and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.
     Private capital income consists primarily of acquisition and development fees, asset management fees and priority distributions earned by AMB Capital Partners from joint ventures and clients. Private capital income also includes promoted interests and incentive distributions from the Operating Partnership's co-investment joint ventures. The Company received incentive distributions of $22.5 million, of which $19.8 million was from AMB Partners II, L.P., and $26.4 million for the sale of AMB Institutional Alliance Fund I, L.P., respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005.
Private Capital Income.
     Other income consists primarily of interest income from mortgages receivable and on cash and cash equivalents.
Other Income.
     When the Company disposes of its real estate entities' interests, gains reported from the sale of these interests represent either: (i) the sale of partial interests in consolidated co-investment joint ventures to third-party investors for cash or (ii) the sale of partial interests in properties to unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures with third-party investors for cash.
Development Profits, Net of Taxes.
     Gains and losses are recognized using the full accrual method. Gains related to transactions which do not meet the requirements of the full accrual method of accounting are deferred and recognized when the full accrual method of accounting criteria are met.
Gains from Dispositions of Real Estate.
     The Company reported real estate dispositions as discontinued operations separately as prescribed under the provisions of SFAS No. 144, (SFAS 144). The Company separately reports as discontinued operations the historical operating results attributable to operating properties sold and held for disposition and the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the properties, which is included in gains from dispositions of real estate, net of minority interests, in the statement of operations. The consolidated statements of operations for prior periods are also adjusted to conform with this classification. There is no impact on the Company's previously reported consolidated financial position, net income or cash flows.
Discontinued Operations.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
     The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the Company's subsidiaries operating in the United States and Mexico. The functional currency for the Company's subsidiaries operating outside the United States is generally the local currency of the country in which the entity is located, mitigating the effect of currency exchange gains and losses. The Company's subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The Company translates income statement accounts using the average exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions using the rate on the transaction date. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, losses resulting from the translation were $0.2 million, $1.8 million and $0.4 million, respectively. These losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders' equity.
International Operations.
     The Company's international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. In these instances, non-monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the period. Gains from remeasurement were $0.8 million, $0.6 million and $0.5 million for the years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These gains are included in the consolidated statements of operations.
     The Company also records gains or losses in the income statement when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other than the entity's functional currency, is settled and the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than
 
expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the transaction was initiated. These gains and losses have been immaterial over the past three years.
     In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48, .", which clarifies the accounting and disclosure for uncertainty in tax positions, as defined. FIN 48 seeks to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement related to accounting for income taxes. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. Based on the Company's evaluation, which is ongoing, the Company does not believe that FIN 48 will have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
New Accounting Pronouncements.
"Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109
     In September 2006, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 108, in order to address the SEC Staff's concerns over registrant's exclusive reliance on either the "iron curtain" or balance sheet approach or the "rollover" or income statement approach in quantifying financial statement misstatements. SAB No. 108 states that registrants should use both a balance sheet and an income statement approach when quantifying and evaluating the materiality of a misstatement and contains guidance on correcting errors under the dual approach. SAB No. 108 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years ending after November 15, 2006. The adoption of SAB No. 108 did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
"Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements,"
3. Real Estate Acquisition and Development Activity
     During the year ended December 31, 2006, on an owned and managed basis, the Company acquired 106 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 9.8 million square feet for a total expected investment of $834.2 million (includes acquisition costs of $814.1 million and estimated acquisition capital of $20.1 million, unaudited), of which the Company acquired 70 buildings through one of its unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures. During 2005, the Company acquired 39 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 6.4 million square feet for a total expected investment of $522.3 million (includes acquisition costs of $508.6 million and estimated acquisition capital of $13.7 million, unaudited).
Acquisition Activity.
     During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company initiated 30 new industrial development projects in North America, Europe and Asia with a total expected investment of $914.3 million (unaudited), aggregating approximately 10.4 million square feet. During 2005, the Company initiated 30 new industrial development projects in North America, Europe and Asia with a total expected investment of $522.4 million (unaudited), aggregating approximately 7.0 million square feet.
Development Starts.
     During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company completed 33 industrial projects with a total investment of $777.8 million (unaudited), aggregating 8.7 million square feet. Seven of these completed projects with a total investment of $90.5 million (unaudited) and aggregating approximately 0.9 million square feet were placed in operations, nine projects with a total investment of $430.3 million (unaudited) and aggregating approximately 3.5 million square feet were contributed to unconsolidated joint ventures, seven projects with a total investment of $57.8 million (unaudited) and aggregating approximately 1.3 million square feet were sold to third parties, and ten projects with a total investment of $199.2 million (unaudited), aggregating approximately 3.0 million square feet were available for sale or contribution as of December 31, 2006. One of these ten projects totaling $13.0 million (unaudited) and approximately 0.2 million square feet is held in an unconsolidated joint venture. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company completed 15 industrial projects with a total investment of $250.7 million (unaudited), aggregating 4.3 million square feet. Eleven of these completed projects with a total investment of $137.9 million (unaudited) and aggregating approximately 2.5 million square feet were placed in operations, one approximately 0.4 million square foot project with a total investment of $20.1 million (unaudited) was contributed to an unconsolidated joint venture, two projects with a total investment of $60.9 million (unaudited) aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet were sold to third parties, and one approximately 0.6 million square foot project with an investment of $31.8 million (unaudited) was available for sale or contribution as of December 31, 2005.
Development Completions.
     As of December 31, 2006, the Company had 45 industrial projects in its development pipeline, which will total approximately 13.7 million square feet, and will have an aggregate estimated investment of $1.3 billion (unaudited) upon completion. The Company has an additional ten development projects available for sale or contribution totaling approximately 3.0 million square feet, with an aggregate estimated investment of $199.2 million (unaudited). One of these ten projects totaling $13.0 million (unaudited) and approximately 0.2 million square feet is held in an unconsolidated joint venture. As of December 31, 2006, the Company and its joint venture partners had funded an aggregate of $814.5 million and needed to fund an estimated additional $481.0 million (unaudited) in order to complete its development pipeline. The Company's development pipeline currently includes projects
Development Pipeline.
 
expected to be completed through the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company acquired 835 acres of land for industrial warehouse development in North America and Asia for approximately $293.2 million.
4. Gains from Dispositions of Real Estate Interests, Development Sales and Discontinued Operations
     On June 30, 2005, the Company formed AMB Japan Fund I, L.P. a joint venture with 13 institutional investors, in which the Company retained an approximate 20% interest. The 13 institutional investors have committed 49.5 billion Yen ($415.7 million U.S. dollars, using the exchange rate at December 31, 2006) for an approximate 80% equity interest. The Company contributed $106.9 million (using exchange rate in effect at contribution) in operating properties, consisting of six industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 0.9 million square feet, to this fund. During 2005, the Company recognized a gain of $17.8 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third-party investors for cash.
Gains from Dispositions of Real Estate Interests.
     On December 31, 2004, the Company formed AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, a joint venture with Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte Ltd, a subsidiary of GIC Real Estate Pte. Ltd., the real estate investment subsidiary of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, in which the Company retained a 20% interest. During 2005, the Company recognized a gain of $1.3 million from disposition of real estate interests, representing the additional value received from the contribution of properties to AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC.
     During 2006, the Company sold five land parcels and six development projects totaling approximately 1.3 million square feet for an aggregate sale price of $86.6 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $13.3 million. In addition, during 2006, the Company received approximately $0.4 million in connection with the condemnation of a parcel of land resulting in a loss of $1.0 million, $0.8 million of which was the joint venture partner's share.
Development Sales.
     During 2005, the Company sold five land parcels and five development projects, aggregating approximately 0.9 million square feet for an aggregate price of $155.2 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $45.1 million. In addition, during 2005, the Company received final proceeds of $7.8 million from a land sale that occurred in 2004.
     During 2004, the Company sold seven land parcels and six development projects as part of our development-for-sale program, aggregating approximately 0.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $40.4 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $6.5 million.
     The Company reports its property divestitures as discontinued operations separately as prescribed under the provisions of SFAS No. 144Beginning in 2002, SFAS No. 144 requires the Company to separately report as discontinued operations the historical operating results attributable to operating properties sold and held for disposition and the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the properties, which is included in gains from dispositions of real estate, net of minority interests, in the statement of operations. Although the application of SFAS No. 144 may affect the presentation of the Company's results of operations for the periods that it has already reported in filings with the SEC, there will be no effect on its previously reported financial position, net income or cash flows.
Discontinued Operations.
.
     During 2006, the Company divested itself of 39 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 3.5 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $175.3 million, with a resulting net gain of $42.6 million.
     During 2005, the Company divested itself of 142 industrial buildings and one retail center, aggregating approximately 9.3 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $926.6 million, with a resulting net gain of $113.6 million. Included in these divestitures is the sale of the assets of AMB Alliance Fund I for $618.5 million. The multi-investor fund owned 100 buildings totaling approximately 5.8 million square feet. The Company received cash and a distribution of an on-tarmac property, AMB DFW Air Cargo Center I, in exchange for its 21% interest in the fund. The Company also received a net incentive distribution of approximately $26.4 million in cash which is classified under private capital income on the consolidated statement of operations.
     During 2004, the Company divested itself of 21 industrial buildings, two retail centers and one office building, aggregating approximately 3.1 million square feet, for an aggregate price of $200.3 million, with a resulting net gain of $42.0 million.
     During 2006, the Company contributed a total of nine completed development projects into unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures. Four projects totaling approximately 2.6 million square feet were contributed into AMB Japan Fund I, L.P, two projects totaling approximately 0.8 million square feet were contributed into AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, and
Development Contributions.
 
three projects totaling approximately 0.6 million square feet were contributed into AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. In addition, one land parcel was contributed into AMB DFS Fund I, LLC. As a result of these contributions, the Company recognized an aggregate after-tax gain of $94.1 million, representing the portion of the Company's interest in the contributed property acquired by the third-party investors for cash. These gains are included in development profits, net of taxes, in the statement of operations.
     During 2005, the Company contributed one approximately 0.4 million square foot completed development project into AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, and recognized an after-tax gain of $1.9 million.
     During 2004, the Company contributed one approximately 0.2 million square foot completed development project into AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, and recognized an after-tax gain of $2.0 million.
     As of December 31, 2006, the Company held for contribution to co-investment joint ventures nine industrial projects with an aggregate net book value of $154.0 million, which, when contributed to a joint venture, will reduce the Company's current ownership interest from approximately 100% to an expected range of 15-50%.
Properties Held for Contribution.
     As of December 31, 2006, the Company held for divestiture four industrial projects with an aggregate net book value of $20.9 million. These properties either are not in the Company's core markets or do not meet its current strategic objectives, or are included as part of its development-for-sale program. The divestitures of the properties are subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and other customary conditions. Properties held for divestiture are stated at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell.
Properties Held for Divestiture.
     The following summarizes the condensed results of operations of the properties held for divestiture and sold under SFAS No. 144 for the years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands):
     As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, assets and liabilities attributable to properties held for divestiture under the provisions of SFAS No. 144 consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):
 
5. Mortgage and Loan Receivables
     Through a wholly-owned subsidiary, the Company holds a mortgage loan receivable on AMB Pier One, LLC, an unconsolidated joint venture. The Company also holds a loan receivable on G.Accion, S.A. de C.V. (G.Accion), an unconsolidated equity investment. The Company's mortgage and loan receivables at December 31, 2006 and 2005 consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):
6. Debt
     As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, debt consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):
     Secured debt generally requires monthly principal and interest payments. Some of the loans are cross-collateralized by multiple properties. The secured debt is secured by deeds of trust or mortgages on certain properties and is generally non-recourse. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the total gross investment book value of those properties securing the debt was $2.6 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, including $1.9 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, in consolidated joint ventures. As of December 31, 2006, $1.0 billion of the secured debt obligations bore interest at fixed rates with a weighted average interest rate of 6.1% while the remaining $386.1 million bore interest at variable rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 4.7%).
     As of December 31, 2006, the Operating Partnership had outstanding an aggregate of $1.1 billion in unsecured senior debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.2% and had an average term of 4.8 years. These unsecured senior debt securities include $300.0 million in notes issued in June 1998, $225.0 million of medium-term notes, which were issued under the Operating Partnership's 2000 medium-term note program, $275.0 million of medium-term notes, which were issued under the Operating Partnership's 2002 medium-term note program, $175.0 million of medium-term notes, which were issued under the Operating Partnership's 2006 medium-term note program and approximately $112.5 million of 5.094% Notes Due 2015, which were issued to Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America on July 11, 2005 in a private placement, in exchange for the cancelled $100.0 million of notes that were issued in June 1998 resulting in a discount of approximately $12.5 million. The unsecured senior debt securities are subject to various covenants. Also included is a $25.0 million promissory note which matures in January 2007. Management believes that the Company and the Operating Partnership were in compliance with their financial covenants as of December 31, 2006.
 
     As of December 31, 2006, the Company had $88.2 million outstanding in other debt which bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.6% and had an average term of 6.1 years. Other debt includes a $65.0 million non-recourse credit facility obtained by AMB Partners II, L.P., a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership, which had a $65.0 million balance outstanding as of December 31, 2006. The Company also had $23.2 million outstanding in other non-recourse debt.
     On June 1, 2006, the Operating Partnership entered into a third amended and restated $550.0 million (includes Euros, Yen or U.S. Dollar denominated borrowings) unsecured revolving credit agreement that replaced its then-existing $500.0 million credit facility, which was to mature on June 1, 2007. The Company is a guarantor of the Operating Partnership's obligations under the credit facility. The line, which matures on June 1, 2010, carries a one-year extension option and can be increased to up to $700.0 million upon certain conditions. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, based on the Operating Partnership's long-term debt rating, which was 42.5 basis points as of December 31, 2006, with an annual facility fee of 15 basis points. The four year credit facility includes a multi-currency component, under which up to $550.0 million can be drawn in U.S. Dollars, Euros, Yen or British Pounds Sterling. The Operating Partnership uses the credit facility principally for acquisitions, funding development activity and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance on the credit facility was $303.7 million and the remaining amount available was $234.6 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $11.7 million. The outstanding balance included borrowings denominated in Euros, which, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2006, equaled approximately $303.7 million in U.S. dollars. The credit agreement contains affirmative covenants, including compliance with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. Management believes that the Company and the Operating Partnership were in compliance with their financial covenants under this credit agreement at December 31, 2006.
     On June 23, 2006, AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership and as the initial borrower, entered into an amended and restated revolving credit agreement for a 45.0 billion Yen unsecured revolving credit facility, which, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2006, equaled approximately $377.9 million U.S. dollars. This replaced the 35.0 billion Yen unsecured revolving credit facility executed on June 29, 2004, as previously amended, which using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2006, equaled approximately $293.9 million U.S. dollars. The Company, along with the Operating Partnership, guarantees the obligations of AMB Japan Finance Y.K. under the credit facility, as well as the obligations of any other entity in which the Operating Partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under and pursuant to the credit agreement. The borrowers intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and for other real estate purposes in Japan, China and South Korea. Generally,borrowers under the credit facility have the option to secure all or a portion of the borrowings under the credit facility with certain real estate assets or equity in entities holding such real estate assets. The credit facility matures in June 2010 and has a one-year extension option. The credit facility can be increased to up to 55.0 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2006, equaled approximately $461.9 million U.S. dollars. The extension option is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.15% of the outstanding commitments under the facility at that time. The rate on the borrowings is generally TIBOR plus a margin, which is based on the credit rating of the Operating Partnership's long-term debt and was 42.5 basis points as of December 31, 2006. In addition, there is an annual facility fee, payable in quarterly amounts, which is based on the credit rating of the Operating Partnership's long-term debt, and was 15 basis points of the outstanding commitments under the facility as of December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2006, was $320.9 million in U.S. dollars. The credit agreement contains affirmative covenants, including financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. Management believes that the Company, the Operating Partnership and AMB Japan Finance Y.K. were in compliance with their financial covenants under this credit agreement at December 31, 2006.
     On June 13, 2006, the Operating Partnership and certain of its consolidated subsidiaries entered into a fourth amended and restated credit agreement for a $250.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which replaced the third amended and restated credit agreement for a $250.0 million unsecured credit facility. On February 16, 2006, the third amended and restated credit agreement replaced the then-existing $100.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility that was to mature in June 2008. The Company, along with the Operating Partnership, guarantees the obligations for such subsidiaries and other entities controlled by the Company or the Operating Partnership that are selected by the Operating Partnership from time to time to be borrowers under and pursuant to the credit facility. The four-year credit facility includes a multi-currency component under which up to $250.0 million can be drawn in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Singapore dollars, Canadian dollars and Euros. The line, which matures in February 2010 and carries a one-year extension option, can be increased to up to $350.0 million upon certain conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.15% of the outstanding commitments. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, based on the credit rating of the Operating Partnership's senior unsecured long-term debt, which was 60 basis points as of December 31, 2006, with an annual facility fee based on the credit rating of the Operating Partnership's senior unsecured long-term debt. The borrowers intend to
 
use the proceeds from the facility to fund the acquisition and development of properties and general working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance on this credit facility was approximately $227.4 million. The credit agreement contains affirmative covenants, including financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios by the Operating Partnership, and negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. Management believes that the Company and the Operating Partnership were in compliance with their financial covenants under this credit agreement at December 31, 2006.
     As of December 31, 2006, the scheduled maturities of the Company's total debt, excluding unamortized secured debt premiums and discounts, were as follows (dollars in thousands):
7. Leasing Activity
     Future minimum base rental income due under non-cancelable leases with customers in effect as of December 31, 2006 was as follows (dollars in thousands):
     The schedule does not reflect future rental revenues from the renewal or replacement of existing leases and excludes property operating expense reimbursements. In addition to minimum rental payments, certain customers pay reimbursements for their pro rata share of specified operating expenses, which amounted to $143.0 million, $144.0 million and $134.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These amounts are included as rental revenue and operating expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Some leases contain options to renew.
 
8. Income Taxes
     The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code, commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 1997. To qualify as a REIT, the Company must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement that it currently distribute at least 90% of its taxable income to its stockholders. It is management's current intention to adhere to these requirements and maintain the Company's REIT status. As a REIT, the Company generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income tax on net income it distributes currently to its stockholders. As such, no provision for federal income taxes has been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be subject to federal income taxes at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may be ineligible to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the Company may be subject to certain state, local taxes on its income and excise taxes on its undistributed taxable income. The Company is required to pay federal and state income tax on its net taxable income, if any, from the activities conducted by the Company's taxable REIT subsidiaries. Foreign income taxes are accrued for foreign countries in which the Company operates, as necessary.
     The following is a reconciliation of net income available to common stockholders to taxable income available to common stockholders for the years ended December 31 (dollars in thousands):
 
     For income tax purposes, distributions paid to common stockholders consist of ordinary income, capital gains, non-taxable return of capital or a combination thereof. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company elected to distribute all of its taxable capital gain. The taxability of the Company's distributions to common stockholders is summarized below:
9. Minority Interests in Consolidated Joint Ventures and Preferred Units
     Minority interests in the Company represent the limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership, limited partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, and interests held by certain third parties in several real estate joint ventures, aggregating approximately 36.1 million square feet, which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. Such investments are consolidated because the Company exercises significant rights over major operating decisions such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers, asset management, investment activity and changes in financing. These joint venture
 
investments do not meet the variable interest entity criteria under FASB Interpretation No. 46R, .
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
     Effective October 1, 2006, the Company deconsolidated AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an open-ended co-investment partnership formed in 2004 with institutional investors, on a prospective basis, due to the re-evaluation of the Company's accounting for its investment in the fund in light of changes to the partnership agreement regarding the general partner's rights effective October 1, 2006.
     Through the Operating Partnership, the Company enters into co-investment joint ventures with institutional investors. The Company's co-investment joint ventures are engaged in the acquisition, ownership, operation, management and, in some cases, the renovation, expansion and development of industrial buildings in target markets in North America.
     The Company's consolidated co-investment joint ventures' total investment and property debt in properties at December 31, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in thousands) were:
 
     The following table details the minority interests as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in thousands):
 
     The following table distinguishes the minority interests' share of income, including minority interests' share of development profits, but excluding minority interests' share of discontinued operations for the years ending December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in thousands):
10. Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures
     The Company's investment in unconsolidated joint ventures at December 31, 2006 and 2005 totaled $274.4 million and $118.7 million, respectively. The Company's exposure to losses associated with its unconsolidated joint ventures is limited to its carrying value in these investments and guarantees of $170.5 million on loans on three of its unconsolidated joint ventures.
     The Company's unconsolidated joint ventures' net equity investments at December 31, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in thousands) were:
 
 
     The table below presents summarized financial information of the Company's unconsolidated joint ventures as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004:
 
 
     On December 30, 2004, the Company formed AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, a joint venture with Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte. Ltd., a subsidiary of GIC Real Estate Pte. Ltd., the real estate investment subsidiary of the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, in which the Company retained a 20% interest. During 2006, the Company recognized development profits of $5.1 million from the contribution of two completed development projects for $56.4 million aggregating approximately 0.8 million square feet. During 2005, the Company recognized a gain of $1.3 million from disposition of real estate interests, representing the additional value received from the contribution of properties to AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC during 2004. During 2005, the Company recognized
 
development profits of $1.9 million from the contribution of one industrial building for $23.6 million aggregating approximately 0.4 million square feet.
     On June 30, 2005, the Company formed AMB Japan Fund I, L.P., a joint venture with 13 institutional investors, in which joint venture the Company retained an approximate 20% interest. The 13 institutional investors have committed 49.5 billion Yen (approximately $415.7 million in U.S. dollars, using the exchange rate at December 31, 2006) for an approximate 80% equity interest. During 2006, the Company recognized development profits of $77.9 million, representing the portion of the Company's interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third-party investors for cash from the contribution to the joint venture of four completed development projects for $486.2 million (using the exchange rates in effect at contribution) aggregating approximately 2.6 million square feet. During 2005, the Company contributed to the joint venture $106.9 million (using the exchange rate in effect at contribution) in operating properties, consisting of six industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 0.9 million square feet and recognized a gain of $17.6 million on the contribution, representing the portion of the Company's interest in the contributed property acquired by the third-party investors for cash.
     Effective October 1, 2006, the Company deconsolidated AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., an open-ended co-investment partnership formed in 2004 with institutional investors, on a prospective basis, due to the re-evaluation of the Company's accounting for its investment in the fund in light of changes to the partnership agreement regarding the general partner's rights effective October 1, 2006. During 2006, the Company recognized development profits of $10.3 million, representing the portion of the Company's interest in the contributed properties acquired by the third-party investors for cash from the contribution to the joint venture of three completed development projects for approximately $64.8 million aggregating approximately 0.6 million square feet.
     On October 17, 2006, the Company formed AMB DFS Fund I, LLC, a merchant development joint venture with GE Real Estate ("GE"), in which joint venture the Company retained an approximate 15% interest. The joint venture will have total investment capacity of approximately $500.0 million to pursue development-for-sale opportunities primarily in U.S. markets other than those the Company identifies as its target markets. GE and the Company have committed $425.0 million and $75.0 million of equity, respectively. During 2006, the Company contributed a land parcel with a contribution value of approximately $77.5 million to this fund and recognized development profits of approximately $0.8 million on the contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the contributed land parcel acquired by the third-party investor for cash.
     Under the agreements governing the joint ventures, the Company and the other parties to the joint ventures may be required to make additional capital contributions and, subject to certain limitations, the joint ventures may incur additional debt.
     The Company also has a 0.1% unconsolidated equity interest (with an approximate 33% economic interest) in AMB Pier One, LLC, a joint venture related to the 2000 redevelopment of the pier which houses the Company's office space in the San Francisco Bay Area. The investment is not consolidated because the Company does not exercise control over major operating decisions such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers, investment activity and changes in financing. The Company has an option to purchase the remaining equity interest beginning January 1, 2007 and expiring December 31, 2009, based on the fair market value as stipulated in the joint venture agreement. As of December 31, 2006, the Company also had an approximate 39% unconsolidated equity interest in G.Accion, a Mexican real estate company. G.Accion provides management and development services for industrial, retail, residential and office properties in Mexico. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, a subsidiary of the Company also had an approximate 5% interest in IAT Air Cargo Facilities Income Fund (IAT), a Canadian income trust specializing in aviation-related real estate at Canada's leading international airports. This equity investment of approximately $2.7 million and $2.6 million, respectively, is included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005.
11. Stockholders' Equity
     Holders of common limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and class B common limited partnership units of AMB Property II, L.P. have the right, commencing generally on or after the first anniversary of the holder becoming a limited partner of the Operating Partnership or AMB Property II, L.P., as applicable (or such other date agreed to by the Operating Partnership or AMB Property II, L.P. and the applicable unit holders), to require the Operating Partnership or AMB Property II, L.P., as applicable, to redeem part or all of their common units or class B common limited partnership units, as applicable, for cash (based upon the fair market value, as defined in the applicable partnership agreement, of an equivalent number of shares of common stock of the Company at the time of redemption) or the Operating Partnership or AMB Property II, L.P. may, in its respective sole and absolute discretion (subject to the limits on ownership and transfer of common stock set forth in the Company's charter), elect to have the Company exchange those common units or class B common limited partnership units, as applicable, for shares of the Company's common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to adjustment in the event of stock splits, stock dividends, issuance of certain rights, certain
 
extraordinary distributions and similar events. With each redemption or exchange of the Operating Partnership's common units, the Company's percentage ownership in the Operating Partnership will increase. Common limited partners and class B common limited partners may exercise this redemption right from time to time, in whole or in part, subject to certain limitations. In November 2006, AMB Property II L.P., issued 1,130,835 of its class B common limited partnership units in connection with a property acquisition which resulted in a reallocation of partnership interest. During 2006, the Operating Partnership redeemed 818,304 of its common limited partnership units for an equivalent number of shares of the Company's common stock.
     On September 21, 2006, AMB Property II, L.P., repurchased all 201,139 of its outstanding 7.95% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units from a single institutional investor for an aggregate price of $10.0 million, including accrued and unpaid distributions. In connection with this repurchase, the Company reclassified all of its 267,439 shares of 7.95% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock as preferred stock.
     On June 30, 2006, AMB Property II, L.P., repurchased all 220,440 of its outstanding 7.75% Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units from a single institutional investor for an aggregate price of $10.9 million, including accrued and unpaid distributions. In connection with this repurchase, the Company reclassified all of its 220,440 shares of 7.795% Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock as preferred stock.
     On March 21, 2006, AMB Property II, L.P., repurchased all 840,000 of its outstanding 8.125% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units from a single institutional investor for an aggregate price of $42.8 million, including accrued and unpaid distributions. In connection with this repurchase, we reclassified all of our outstanding 840,000 shares of 8.125% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock as preferred stock.
     As of December 31, 2006, $145.3 million in preferred units with a weighted average rate of 7.85%, issued by the Operating Partnership, were callable under the terms of the partnership agreement and $40.0 million in preferred units with a weighted average rate of 7.95% become callable in 2007.
     On August 25, 2006, the Company issued and sold 2,000,000 shares of 6.85% Series P Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.7125 per annum. The series P preferred stock is redeemable by the Company on or after August 25, 2011, subject to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the redemption date. The Company contributed the net proceeds of approximately $48.1 million to the Operating Partnership, and in exchange, the Operating Partnership issued to the Company 2,000,000 6.85% Series P Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.
     On December 13, 2005, the Company issued and sold 3,000,000 shares of 7.00% Series O Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.75 per annum. The series O preferred stock is redeemable by the Company on or after December 13, 2010, subject to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the redemption date. The Company contributed the net proceeds of approximately $72.3 million to the Operating Partnership, and in exchange, the Operating Partnership issued to the Company 3,000,000 7.00% Series O Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.
     On September 24, 2004, AMB Property II, L.P., a partnership in which Texas AMB I, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and the Company's indirect subsidiary, owns an approximate 8.0% general partnership interest and the Operating Partnership owns an approximate 92% common limited partnership interest, issued 729,582 5.0% Series N Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units at a price of $50.00 per unit. The series N preferred units were issued to Robert Pattillo Properties, Inc. in exchange for the contribution to AMB Property II, L.P of certain parcels of land that are located in multiple markets. Effective January 27, 2006, Robert Pattillo Properties, Inc. exercised its rights under its Put Agreement, dated September 24, 2004, with the Operating Partnership, and sold all of its series N preferred units to the Operating Partnership for an aggregate price of $36.6 million, including accrued and unpaid distributions. Also on January 27, 2006, AMB Property II, L.P. repurchased all of the series N preferred units from the Operating Partnership at an aggregate price of $36.6 million and cancelled all of the outstanding series N preferred units as of such date.
     On November 25, 2003, the Company issued and sold 2,300,000 shares of 6.75% Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.6875 per annum. The series M preferred stock is redeemable by the Company on or after November 25, 2008, subject to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the
 
redemption date. The Company contributed the net proceeds of approximately $55.4 million to the Operating Partnership, and in exchange, the Operating Partnership issued to the Company 2,300,000 6.75% Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.
     On June 23, 2003, the Company issued and sold 2,000,000 shares of 6.5% Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at a price of $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.625 per annum. The series L preferred stock is redeemable by the Company on or after June 23, 2008, subject to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the redemption date. The Company contributed the net proceeds of approximately $48.0 million to the Operating Partnership, and in exchange, the Operating Partnership issued to the Company 2,000,000 6.5% Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units. The Operating Partnership used the proceeds, in addition to proceeds previously contributed to the Operating Partnership from other equity issuances, to redeem all 3,995,800 of its 8.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units from the Company on July 28, 2003. The Company, in turn, used those proceeds to redeem all 3,995,800 of our 8.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock for $100.2 million, including all accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, to the redemption date.
     In December 2005, the Company's board of directors approved a new two-year common stock repurchase program for the repurchase of up to $200.0 million of its common stock. The Company did not repurchase or retire any shares of its common stock during the year ended December 31, 2006.
     The Company has authorized 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock for issuance, of which the following series were designated as of December 31, 2006: 1,595,337 shares of series D cumulative redeemable preferred; 510,000 shares of series I cumulative redeemable preferred; 800,000 shares of series J cumulative redeemable preferred; 800,000 shares of series K cumulative redeemable preferred; 2,300,000 shares of series L cumulative redeemable preferred, of which 2,000,000 are outstanding; 2,300,000 shares of series M cumulative redeemable preferred, all of which are outstanding; 3,000,000 shares of series O cumulative redeemable preferred, all of which are outstanding, and 2,000,000 shares of series P cumulative redeemable preferred, all of which are outstanding.
     The following table sets forth the dividends and distributions paid per share or unit:
 
 
12. Stock Incentive Plan, 401(k) Plan and Deferred Compensation Plan
     Stock Incentive Plans. The Company has stock option and incentive plans ("Stock Incentive Plans") for the purpose of attracting and retaining eligible officers, directors and employees. The Company has reserved for issuance 18,950,000 shares of common stock under its Stock Incentive Plans. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had 6,843,025 non-qualified options outstanding granted to certain directors, officers and employees. Each option is exchangeable for one share of the Company's common stock. Each option's exercise price is equal to the Company's market price on the date of grant. The options have an original ten-year term and generally vest pro rata in annual installments over a three to five-year period from the date of grant.
     The Company adopted SFAS No. 123R, Share Based Payment, on January 1, 2006. The Company opted to utilize the modified prospective method of transition in adopting SFAS No. 123R. The effect of this change from applying the original expense recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, had an immaterial effect on income before minority interests and discontinued operations, income from continuing operations, net income and earnings per share. The effect of this change from applying the original provisions of SFAS No. 123 had no effect on cash flow from operating and financing activities. The Company recorded a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in the amount of $0.2 million as of January 1, 2006 to reflect the change in accounting for forfeitures. The Company values stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and recognizes this value as an expense over the vesting periods. Under this standard, recognition of expense for stock options is applied to all options granted after the beginning of the year of adoption. In accordance with SFAS No. 123R, the Company will recognize the associated expense over the three to five-year vesting periods. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, under SFAS No. 123R or SFAS No. 123, related stock option expense was $6.8 million, $4.8 million and $4.0 million, respectively. Additionally, the Company awards restricted stock and recognizes this value as an expense over the vesting periods. During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, related restricted stock compensation expense was $13.9 million, $7.5 million and $6.4 million, respectively. The expense is included in general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had $5.1 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested options granted under the Stock Incentive Plans which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1 year. Results for prior periods have not been restated.
     As a result of adopting SFAS No. 123R on January 1, 2006, the Company's income before income taxes and net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 is $0.5 million higher than if the Company had continued to account for share-based compensation under the original provisions of SFAS No. 123. Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2006 would have decreased to $2.38 and $2.29, respectively, if the Company had not adopted SFAS No. 123R.
     SFAS No. 123R requires the cash flows resulting from tax benefits resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for those options (excess tax benefits) to be classified as financing cash flows. The Company does not have any such excess tax benefits.
     The fair value of each option grant was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Company uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination within the valuation model. Expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of the Company's stock. The risk-free rate for periods within the expected life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the grant. The following assumptions are used for grants during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively: dividend yields of 3.5%, 4.5% and 4.8%; expected volatility of 17.9%, 17.5% and 18.6%; risk-free interest rates of 4.6%, 3.8% and 3.6%; and expected lives of six, seven and seven years, respectively.
     Following is a summary of the option activity for the year ended December 31, 2006 (options in thousands):
 
     The following table summarizes additional information concerning outstanding and exercisable stock options at December 31, 2006 (options in thousands):
     The following table summarizes additional information concerning unvested stock options at December 31, 2006 (options in thousands):
     Cash received from options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $55.5 million, $48.5 million and $27.7 million, respectively. There were no excess tax benefits realized for the tax deductions from option exercises during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $88.1 million, $38.1 million and $17.5 million, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2006 was $146.4 million.
 
     The Company issued 450,352, 262,394 and 227,609 shares of restricted stock, respectively, to certain officers of the Company as part of the pay-for-performance pay program and in connection with employment with the Company during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The total fair value of restricted shares was $23.3 million, $10.2 million and $8.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, 99,587 shares of restricted stock had been forfeited. The 611,549 outstanding restricted shares are subject to repurchase rights, which generally lapse over a period from three to five years.
     The following table summarizes additional information concerning unvested restricted shares at December 31, 2006 (shares in thousands):
     As of December 31, 2006, there was $24.1 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based compensation arrangements granted under the stock incentive plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.96 years. The total fair value of shares vested, based on the market price on the vesting date, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 was $17.4 million and $9.8 million, respectively.
     . In November 1997, the Company established a Section 401(k) Savings and Retirement Plan (the "401(k) Plan"), which is a continuation of the 401(k) Plan of the predecessor, to cover eligible employees of the Company and any designated affiliates. During 2006 and 2005, the 401(k) Plan permitted eligible employees of the Company to defer up to 20% of their annual compensation (as adjusted under the terms of the 401(k) Plan), subject to certain limitations imposed by the Code. The employees' elective deferrals are immediately vested and non-forfeitable upon contribution to the 401(k) Plan. During 2006 and 2005, the Company matched employee contributions under the 401(k) Plan in an amount equal to 50% of the first 6.0% of annual compensation deferred by each employee, up to a maximum match by the Company of $6,600 and $6,300 per year, respectively, for each participating employee.
401(k) Plan
     Matching contributions made by the Company vest fully one year after the commencement of an employee's employment with the Company. The Company may also make discretionary contributions to the 401(k) Plan. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company paid $0.8 million, $0.7 million and $0.5 million, respectively, for its 401(k) match. No discretionary contributions were made by the Company to the 401(k) Plan in 2006, 2005 and 2004.
     . The Company has established two non-qualified deferred compensation plans for eligible officers and directors of the Company and certain of its affiliates, which enable eligible participants to defer income from their U.S. payroll up to 100% of annual base pay, up to 100% of annual bonuses, up to 100% of their meeting fees and/or committee chairmanship fees, and up to 100% of certain equity-based compensation, as applicable, subject to restrictions, on a pre-tax basis. This deferred compensation is our unsecured obligation. The Company may make discretionary matching contributions to participant accounts at any time. The Company made no such discretionary matching contributions in 2006, 2005 or 2004. The participant's elective deferrals and any matching contributions are immediately 100% vested. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the total fair value of compensation deferred was $70.2 million and $20.9 million, respectively.
Deferred Compensation Plans
13. Income Per Share
     The Company's only dilutive securities outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were stock options and shares of restricted stock granted under its stock incentive plans. The effect on income per share was to increase weighted average shares outstanding. Such dilution was computed using the treasury stock method. The computation of basic and diluted earnings per share ("EPS") is presented below (dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts):
 
 
14. Commitments and Contingencies
Commitments
     The Company holds operating ground leases on land parcels at its ontarmac facilities, leases on office spaces for corporate use, and a leasehold interest that it holds for investment purposes. The remaining lease terms are from one to 55 years. Buildings and improvements are being amortized ratably over the lesser of the terms of the related leases or 40 years. Future minimum rental payments required under noncancelable operating leases in effect as of December 31, 2006 were as follows (dollars in thousands):
Lease Commitments.
 
     As of December 31, 2006, the Company had provided approximately $22.1 million in letters of credit, of which $11.7 million were provided under the Operating Partnership's $550.0 million unsecured credit facility. The letters of credit were required to be issued under certain ground lease provisions, bank guarantees and other commitments.
Standby Letters of Credit.
     Other than parent guarantees associated with the unsecured debt, as of December 31, 2006, the Company had outstanding guarantees in the aggregate amount of $48.2 million in connection with certain acquisitions. As of December 31, 2006, the Company guaranteed $26.8 million and $83.2 million on outstanding loans on two of its consolidated joint ventures and two of its unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, the Company guaranteed $87.3 million on outstanding property debt related to one of its unconsolidated joint ventures.
Guarantees.
     As of December 31, 2006, the Company had outstanding performance and surety bonds in an aggregate amount of $11.4 million. These bonds were issued in connection with certain of its development projects and were posted to guarantee certain tax obligations and the construction of certain real property improvements and infrastructure, such as grading, sewers and streets. Performance and surety bonds are commonly required by public agencies from real estate developers. Performance and surety bonds are renewable and expire upon the payment of the taxes due or the completion of the improvements and infrastructure.
Performance and Surety Bonds.
     Upon the achievement of certain return thresholds and the occurrence of certain events, the Company may be obligated to make payments to certain of joint venture partners pursuant to the terms and provisions of their contractual agreements with the Operating Partnership. From time to time in the normal course of the Company's business, the Company enters into various contracts with third parties that may obligate it to make payments, pay promotes or perform other obligations upon the occurrence of certain events.
Promoted Interests and Other Contractual Obligations.
Contingencies
     In the normal course of business, from time to time, the Company may be involved in legal actions relating to the ownership and operations of its properties. Management does not expect that the liabilities, if any, that may ultimately result from such legal actions will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.
Litigation.
     The Company monitors its properties for the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The Company is not aware of any environmental liability with respect to the properties that would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, assets or results of operations. However, there can be no assurance that such a material environmental liability does not exist. The existence of any such material environmental liability would have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and cash flow. The Company carries environmental insurance and believes that the policy terms, conditions, limits and deductibles are adequate and appropriate under the circumstances, given the relative risk of loss, the cost of such coverage and current industry practice.
Environmental Matters.
     The Company carries property and rental loss, liability, flood and terrorism insurance. The Company believes that the policy terms, conditions, limits and deductibles are adequate and appropriate under the circumstances, given the relative risk of loss, the cost of such coverage and current industry practice. In addition, certain of the Company's properties are located in areas that are subject to earthquake activity; therefore, the Company has obtained limited earthquake insurance on those properties. There are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses, such as those due to acts of war, that may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Although the Company has obtained coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy specifications and insured limits that it believes are commercially reasonable, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to collect under such policies. Should an uninsured loss occur, the Company could lose its investment in, and anticipated profits and cash flows from, a property.
General Uninsured Losses.
 
     Various properties that the Company owns or leases in New Orleans, Louisiana and South Florida suffered damage in 2005 as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma. Although the Company expects that its insurance will cover losses arising from this damage in excess of the industry standard deductibles paid by the Company, there can be no assurance the Company will be reimbursed for all losses incurred. Management is not aware of circumstances associated with these losses that would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, assets or results from operations.
     In December 2001, the Company formed a whollyowned captive insurance company, Arcata National Insurance Ltd., (Arcata), which provides insurance coverage for all or a portion of losses below the deductible under the Company's thirdparty policies. The captive insurance company is one element of the Company's overall risk management program. The Company capitalized Arcata in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. Arcata established annual premiums based on projections derived from the past loss experience at the Company's properties. Annually, the Company engages an independent third party to perform an actuarial estimate of future projected claims, related deductibles and projected expenses necessary to fund associated risk management programs. Premiums paid to Arcata may be adjusted based on this estimate. Like premiums paid to thirdparty insurance companies, premiums paid to Arcata may be reimbursed by customers pursuant to specific lease terms. Through this structure, the Company believes that it has more comprehensive insurance coverage at an overall lower cost than would otherwise be available in the market.
Captive Insurance Company.
15. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
     Selected quarterly financial results for 2006 and 2005 were as follows (dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts):
2006
 
 
2005
 
16. Segment Information
     The Company has two lines of business, real estate operations and private capital. Real estate operations is comprised of various segments while private capital consists of a single segment, on which the Company evaluates its performance:
 
     The segment information in the following tables for the three years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, have been reclassified to conform to current presentation. See Note 17.
     Summary information for the reportable segments is as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
     The Company considers NOI to be an appropriate and useful supplemental performance measure because NOI reflects the operating performance of the Company's real estate portfolio on a segment basis, and the Company uses NOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess regional property level performance. However, NOI should not be viewed as an alternative measure of the Company's financial performance since it does not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expense, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact the Company's results from operations. Further, the Company's NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating NOI.
 
     The following table is a reconciliation from NOI to reported net income, a financial measure under GAAP (dollars in thousands):
     The Company's total assets by reportable segments were (dollars in thousands):
17. Subsequent Events
     On February 14, 2007, seven subsidiaries of AMB-SGP, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, which is a subsidiary of the Company, entered into a loan agreement for a $305 million secured financing. The loan is secured by more than sixty buildings owned by such subsidiaries of AMB-SGP, L.P. $160 million of the loan will be securitized and sold on the open market, and the remaining portion will be held in the lenders' general accounts. AMB-SGP, L.P. remains a guarantor of certain standard recourse carve-outs under the loan agreement.
     On the same day, pursuant to the loan agreement the same seven subsidiaries delivered four promissory notes to the two lenders, each of which matures on March 5, 2012. One note, has a principal of $160 million and an interest rate that is fixed at 5.29%. One is a $40 million note with an interest rate of 81 basis points above the one-month LIBOR rate, a second has a principal of $84 million and
 
a fixed interest rate of 5.90%, and the final note has a principal of $21 million and bears interest at a rate of 135 basis points above the one-month LIBOR rate.
Subsequent to the filing of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K on February 23, 2007, as amended, the Company plans to file a registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on or about November 14, 2007 registering the issuance and resale of 1,130,835 shares of common stock issuable to J.A. Green Development Corp. and JAGI, Inc. In connection with the filing of this registration statement and for the sole purpose of meeting post-annual report SEC reporting requirements with respect to such registration statement, the Company amended its audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, due to certain provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No 144. "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of LongLived Assets" that require the Company to report the results of operations of a property if it has either been disposed of or classified as held for sale in discontinued operations and meets certain other criteria. The effect of the reclassification represents a $9.1 million, $7.4 million and $6.8 million decrease in our previously reported income from continuing operations for the three years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As a result of the foregoing, Notes 2, 4, 8, 9, 13, 15, 16 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements for the three years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 have been updated. There is no effect on our previously reported net income, financial condition or cash flows.
We are also amending our segment information presented in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for the three years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 to conform to the current presentation presented in Note 10 of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.
 
 
 
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
 


