FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20070717164059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): July 17, 2007
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
On July 17, 2007, we disclosed a supplemental analyst package in connection with our earnings conference call for the second quarter of 2007. A copy of the supplemental analyst package is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This section and the attached exhibit are provided under Items 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Forward Looking Statements
Some of the information included in this supplemental analyst package and the conference call to be held in connection therewith contains forward-looking statements, such as those related to development, value-added conversion, redevelopment and renovation projects (including stabilization dates, square feet at stabilization or completion, sale or contribution dates, weighted average estimated yields from such projects, costs and total investment amounts), acquisition capital, build out potential of land inventory, co-investment joint venture investment capacity, terms of the co-investment joint ventures, cost to buy out joint venture partners, lease expirations, future debt summaries, and future business plans (such as property divestitures and financings), which are made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, and you should not rely on the forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events or circumstances reflected in forward-looking statements might not occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "approximately," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates" or "anticipates" or the negative of these words and phrases or similar words or phrases. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily dependent on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and we may not be able to realize them. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak only as of the date of this report or the dates indicated in the statements. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements: defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, increased interest rates and operating costs, our failure to obtain necessary outside financing, re-financing risks, risks related to our obligations in the event of certain defaults under joint venture and other debt, risks related to debt and equity security financings (including dilution risk), difficulties in identifying properties to acquire and in effecting acquisitions, our failure to successfully integrate acquired properties and operations, our failure to divest properties we have contracted to sell or to timely reinvest proceeds from any divestitures, risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including construction delays, cost overruns, our inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to these activities), our failure to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust, risks related to our tax structuring, failure to maintain our current credit agency ratings, environmental uncertainties, risks related to natural disasters, financial market fluctuations, changes in general economic conditions or in the real estate sector, changes in real estate and zoning laws, a downturn in the U.S., California or global economy, risks related to doing business internationally and global expansion, losses in excess of our insurance coverage, unknown liabilities acquired in connection with acquired properties or otherwise and increases in real property tax rates. Our success also depends upon economic trends generally, including interest rates, income tax laws, governmental regulation, legislation, population changes and certain other matters discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
 
i
 
1
 
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
 
6
 
     
7
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
11
 
12
 
13
 
14
 
15
 
16
 
17
 
18
 
19
 
includes immediate building improvements that were taken into consideration when underwriting the purchase of a building or which are incurred to bring a building up to "operating standard" or to stabilization. Also includes incremental building improvements and leasing costs that are incurred in an effort to substantially increase the revenue potential of an existing building.
Acquisition/non-recurring capex
is calculated using the following definitions: AMB's share of total debt is the pro rata portion of the total debt based on the Company's percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated or unconsolidated ventures holding the debt. AMB's share of total book capitalization is defined as the Company's share of total debt plus minority interests to preferred unitholders and limited partnership unitholders plus stockholders' equity.
AMB's share of total debt-to-AMB's share of total book capitalization
is calculated using the following definitions: AMB's share of total debt is the pro rata portion of the total debt based on the Company's percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated or unconsolidated ventures holding the debt. The Company's definition of "total market capitalization" is total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The Company's definition of "AMB's share of total market capitalization" is the Company's share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. The Company's definition of "market equity" is the total number of outstanding shares of the Company's common stock and common limited partnership units multiplied by the closing price per share of its common stock as of the period end.
AMB's share of total debt-to-AMB's share of total market capitalization
calculations for certain financial measures represent the pro-rata portion of the applicable financial measure based on the Company's percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated or unconsolidated ventures accounted for in the applicable financial measure. The company believes that "AMB's share of" calculations are meaningful and useful supplemental measures, which enables both management and investors to assess the operations, earnings and growth of the company in light of the company's ownership interest in its joint ventures and to compare the applicable measure to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of the applicable measure to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. "AMB's share of" calculations are not intended to reflect actual liability should there be a default under loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. AMB's computation of "AMB's share of" measures may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating these measures.
AMB's share of
is defined as the Company's share of total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity.
AMB's share of total market capitalization
is calculated as monthly base rent (cash basis) per the lease, as of a certain date, multiplied by 12. If free rent is granted, then the first positive rent value is used. Leases denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the currency exchange rate at quarter end.
Annualized base rent (ABR)
is generally defined as properties that are 90% leased or properties for which we have held a certificate of occupancy or building has been substantially complete for at least 12 months.
Completion/Stabilization
is calculated as the net after tax gain (before any deferrals) on contributions and dispositions divided by the estimated total investment.
Development margin
represents total estimated cost of development, renovation, or expansion, including initial acquisition costs, prepaid ground leases and associated carry costs. Estimated total investments are based on current forecasts and are subject to change. Non-U.S. Dollar investments are translated to U.S. Dollars using the exchange rate at period end.
Estimated total investment
are calculated from estimated annual NOI following occupancy stabilization divided by the estimated total investment, including earnouts (if triggered by stabilization), prepaid ground leases and associated carrying costs. Yields exclude value-added conversion projects and are calculated on an after-tax basis for international projects.
Estimated yields on development projects
is adjusted EBITDA divided by total interest expense (including capitalized interest) plus preferred dividends and distributions.
Fixed charge coverage
is adjusted EBITDA divided by total interest expense.
Interest coverage
calculations for certain financial measures represent the pro-rata portion of the applicable financial measure based on the Company's joint venture partners' percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated or unconsolidated ventures accounted for in the applicable financial measure.
JV Partner's share of
is defined as the total number of outstanding shares of the Company's common stock and common limited partnership units multiplied by the closing price per share of its common stock as of the period end.
Market equity
represents the percentage of total rentable square feet owned, which is leased, including month-to-month leases, as of the date reported. Space is considered leased when the tenant has either taken physical or economic occupancy.
Occupancy percentage
is defined by the Company as assets in which the Company has at least a 10% ownership interest, is the property or asset manager, and which it intends to hold for the long-term.
Owned and managed
represents the percentage of signed leases only.
Percentage pre-leased
, with respect to its capitalization ratios, is defined as preferred equity liquidation preferences.
Preferred
represents projects where the acquired buildings are less than 75% leased and require significant capital expenditures (generally more than 10%  25% of acquisition cost) to bring the buildings up to operating standards and stabilization (generally 90% occupancy).
Renovation projects
represent those that require significant capital expenditures (generally more than 25% of acquired cost or existing basis) to bring them up to operating standards and stabilization (generally 90% occupancy).
Redevelopment projects
represents non-incremental building improvements and leasing costs required to maintain current revenues. Recurring capital expenditures do not include acquisition capital that was taken into consideration when underwriting the purchase of a building or which are incurred to bring a building up to "operating standard."
Recurring capital expenditures
are calculated as the difference, weighted by square feet, of the net ABR due the first month after a term commencement date and the net ABR due the last month prior to the termination date of the former tenant's term. If free rent is granted, then the first positive full rent value is used as a point of comparison. The rental amounts exclude base stop amounts, holdover rent and premium rent charges. If either the previous or current lease terms are under 12 months, then they are excluded from this calculation. If the lease is the first in the unit (first generation) and there is no prior lease for comparison, then it is excluded from this calculation.
Rent increases on renewals and rollovers
is the change in the NOI (excluding straight-line rents and amortization of lease intangibles) of the same store properties from the prior year reporting period to the current year reporting period.
Same store NOI growth
include all properties that were owned as of the end of both the current and prior year reporting periods and excludes development properties for both the current and prior reporting periods. The same store pool is set annually and excludes properties purchased and developments stabilized after December 31, 2005.
Same store properties
are total tenant improvements, lease commissions and other leasing costs incurred during leasing of second generation space divided by the total square feet leased. Costs incurred prior to leasing available space are not included until such space is leased. Second generation space excludes newly developed square footage or square footage vacant at acquisition.
Second generation TIs and LCs per square foot
for acquisitions are calculated as NOI, including straight-line rents, stabilized to market occupancy (generally 95%) divided by total acquisition cost. The total acquisition cost basis includes the initial purchase price, the effects of marking assumed debt to market, all due diligence and closing costs, lease intangible adjustments, planned immediate capital expenditures, leasing costs necessary to achieve stabilization and, if applicable, any estimated costs required to buy-out AMB's joint venture partners. For dispositions or contributions, cap rates are calculated as NOI divided by total disposition price or contribution value, as applicable.
Stabilized GAAP cap rates
is the square footage of all leases renewed by existing tenants divided by the square footage of all expiring and renewed leases during the reporting period, excluding the square footage of tenants that default or buy-out prior to expiration of their lease, short-term tenants and the square footage of month-to-month leases.
Tenant retention
is defined by the Company as total debt plus preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity.
Total market capitalization
represents the repurposing of land or a building site for more valuable uses and may include such activities as rezoning, redesigning, reconstructing and retenanting.
Value-added conversion project
20
 
The Company uses adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, and non-development gains, or adjusted EBITDA, to measure both its operating performance and liquidity. The Company considers adjusted EBITDA to provide investors relevant and useful information because it permits fixed income investors to view income from its operations on an unleveraged basis before the effects of tax, non-cash depreciation and amortization expense or non-development gains. By excluding interest expense, adjusted EBITDA allows investors to measure the Company's operating performance independent of its capital structure and indebtedness and, therefore, allows for a more meaningful comparison of its operating performance between quarters as well as annual periods and to compare its operating performance to that of other companies, both in the real estate industry and in other industries. The Company considers adjusted EBITDA to be a useful supplemental measure for reviewing its comparative performance with other companies because, by excluding non-cash depreciation expense, adjusted EBITDA can help the investing public compare the performance of a real estate company to that of companies in other industries. As a liquidity measure, the Company believes that adjusted EBITDA helps fixed income and equity investors to analyze its ability to meet debt service obligations and to make quarterly preferred share and unit distributions. Management uses adjusted EBITDA in the same manner as the Company expects investors to when measuring the Company's operating performance and liquidity; specifically when assessing its operating performance, and comparing that performance to other companies, both in the real estate industry and in other industries, and when evaluating its ability to meet debt service obligations and to make quarterly preferred share and unit distributions. The Company believes investors should consider adjusted EBITDA, in conjunction with net income (the primary measure of the Company's performance) and the other required GAAP measures of its performance and liquidity, to improve their understanding of the Company's operating results and liquidity, and to make more meaningful comparisons of the performance of its assets between periods and as against other companies. By excluding interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and non-development gains when assessing the Company's financial performance, an investor is assessing the earnings generated by the Company's operations, but not taking into account the eliminated expenses or non-development gains incurred in connection with such operations. As a result, adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool and should be used in conjunction with the Company's required GAAP presentations. Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the Company's historical cash expenditures or future cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures or contractual commitments. Adjusted EBITDA also does not reflect the cash required to make interest and principal payments on the Company's outstanding debt. While adjusted EBITDA is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance and liquidity, it does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and it should not be considered as an alternative to those indicators in evaluating operating performance or liquidity. Further, the Company's computation of adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies.
Adjusted EBITDA.
The following table reconciles adjusted EBITDA from net income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 (dollars in thousands):
AMB believes that the financial information in the consolidated balance sheets based on GAAP provides the most appropriate earnings information. However, AMB considers AMB's share of select balance sheet items reported on an owned and managed basis (such as cash and cash equivalents, mortgages and loans receivable, accounts receivable (net) and other assets, deferred rents receivable and deferred financing costs (net) and accounts payable and other liabilities) to be useful supplemental measures to help both management and investors make a comprehensive assessment and valuation of AMB's total real estate portfolio and its operating performance and activities. (See Reporting Definitions for definitions of "owned and managed" and "AMB's share of".) While these measures are helpful to the investor, they do not provide balance sheet information as defined by GAAP and are not true alternatives to such GAAP measurements. Further, AMB's computation of these measures may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating these measures.
AMB's share of select balance sheet items (owned and managed portfolio).
Cash-basis NOI is defined as NOI (see definition for "NOI") less straight line rents and amortization of lease intangibles. The Company considers cash-basis NOI to be an appropriate and useful supplemental performance measure because cash basis NOI reflects the operating performance of the real estate portfolio excluding the effects of non-cash adjustments and provides a better measure of actual cash basis rental growth for a year-over-year comparison. However, cash-basis NOI should not be viewed as an alternative measure of financial performance since it does not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expenses, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact results from operations. Further, cash-basis NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may use different methodologies for calculating cash-basis NOI.
Cash-basis NOI.
The Company's share of total debt is the pro rata portion of the total debt based on its percentage of equity interest in each of the consolidated or unconsolidated ventures holding the debt. The Company believes that its share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which enables both management and investors to analyze its leverage and to compare its leverage to that of other companies. In addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of its debt to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint ventures. The Company's share of total debt is not intended to reflect its actual liability should there be a default under any or all of such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. See Capitalization Summary for a reconciliation of total debt and the Company's share of total debt.
Company's share of total debt.
Estimated FFO by Business Line is FFO (See discussion of FFO) generated by the Company's Capital Partners, development and real estate operations business lines. Estimated Capital Partners and Development FFO was determined by reducing Capital Partner Income and Development Profits, net of taxes by their respective estimated share of general and administrative expenses. Capital Partners and Developments estimated allocation of total general and administrative expenses was based on their respective percentage of actual direct general and administrative expenses incurred. Estimated Real Estate Operations FFO represents total AMB FFO less estimated FFO attributable to Capital Partners and Development. Management believes estimated FFO by business line is a useful supplemental measure of its operating performance because it helps the investing public compare the operating performance of a company's respective business lines to other companies' comparable business lines. Further, AMB's computation of FFO by business line may not be comparable to that reported by other real estate investment trusts as they may use different methodologies in computing such measures.
Estimated FFO by Business Line.
21
 
Fixed charge coverage is defined as interest expense including amortization of finance costs and debt premiums from continuing and discontinuing operations and amortization of financing costs and debt premiums from continuing and discontinuing operations, the Company's share of interest expense from unconsolidated joint venture debt, capitalized interest, preferred unit distributions and preferred stock dividends. The Company uses fixed charge coverage to measure its liquidity. The Company believes fixed charge coverage is relevant and useful to investors because it permits fixed income investors to measure the Company's ability to meet its interest payments on outstanding debt, make distributions to its preferred unitholders and pay dividends to its preferred shareholders. The Company's computation of fixed charge coverage may not be comparable to fixed charge coverage reported by other companies.
Fixed charge coverage.
The following table details the calculation of fixed charges for the three and six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 (dollars in thousands):
The Company believes that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, the Company considers funds from operations, or FFO, as defined by NAREIT, to be a useful supplemental measure of its operating performance. FFO is defined as net income, calculated in accordance with GAAP, less gains (or losses) from dispositions of real estate held for investment purposes and real estate-related depreciation, and adjustments to derive the Company's pro rata share of FFO of consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. Further, the Company does not adjust FFO to eliminate the effects of non-recurring charges. The Company believes that FFO, as defined by NAREIT, is a meaningful supplemental measure of its operating performance because historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses. However, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market and other conditions, many industry investors and analysts have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. Thus, NAREIT created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for real estate investment trusts that excludes historical cost depreciation and amortization, among other items, from net income, as defined by GAAP. The Company believes that the use of FFO, combined with the required GAAP presentations, has been beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of real estate investment trusts among the investing public and making comparisons of operating results among such companies more meaningful. The Company considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate depreciation and amortization, FFO can help the investing public compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to other companies. While FFO is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to those measures in evaluating the Company's liquidity or operating performance. FFO also does not consider the costs associated with capital expenditures related to the Company's real estate assets nor is FFO necessarily indicative of cash available to fund the Company's future cash requirements. Further, the Company's computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other real estate investment trusts that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently than the Company does. See Consolidated Statements of Funds from Operations for a reconciliation of FFO from net income.
Funds From Operations ("FFO").
Interest coverage is defined as interest expense including amortization from continuing and discontinuing operations and the Company's share of interest expense from unconsolidated joint venture debt. The Company uses interest coverage to measure its liquidity. The Company believes interest coverage is relevant and useful to investors because it permits fixed income investors to measure the Company's ability to meet its interest payments on outstanding debt. The Company's computation of interest coverage may not be comparable to interest coverage reported by other companies.
Interest coverage.
The following table details total interest for the three and six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 (dollars in thousands):
The Company believes NAV is a useful supplemental measure of its operating performance because it enables both management and investors to analyze the fair value of its business. An assessment of the fair value of a business involves estimates and assumptions and can be performed using various methods. The Company has presented certain financial measures related to its business that it believes may be useful to the investing public in calculating its NAV but has not presented any specific methodology nor provided any guidance on assumptions or estimates that should be used in the calculation.
Net Asset Value ("NAV").
Net operating income is defined as rental revenue (as calculated in accordance with GAAP), including reimbursements, less property operating expenses, which excludes depreciation, amortization, general and administrative expenses and interest expense. The Company considers NOI to be an appropriate and useful supplemental performance measure because NOI reflects the operating performance of the real estate portfolio. However, NOI should not be viewed as an alternative measure of financial performance since it does not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expense, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact results from operations. Further, NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may use different methodologies for calculating NOI.
Net Operating Income ("NOI").
22
 
AMB believes that cash flow information based on GAAP provides the most appropriate earnings information. However, AMB considers cash flow information reported on an owned and managed basis (such as straight-line rents and amortization of lease intangibles, AMB's share of straight-line rents and amortization of lease intangibles, gross lease termination fees, net lease termination fees, AMB's share of net lease termination fees, tenant improvements, lease commissions and other lease costs, building improvements, JV partners' share of capital expenditures and AMB's share of recurring capital expenditures) to be useful supplemental measures to help the investors better understand AMB's operating performance and cash flow. See Reporting Definitions for definitions of "owned and managed", "AMB's share of" and "JV partners' share of". AMB believes that owned and managed cash flow information helps management and investors make a comprehensive assessment of the cash flow of AMB's total real estate portfolio and provides a better understanding of AMB's operating performance and activities. While owned and managed supplemental cash flow information is helpful to the investor, it does not provide cash flow information as defined by GAAP and are not true alternatives to such GAAP measurements. Further, AMB's computation of owned and managed supplemental cash flow information may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating these measures.
Owned and Managed Supplemental Cash Flow Information.
The Company believes that net income, as defined by GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, the Company considers SS NOI to be a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance. For properties that are considered part of the same store pool, see Reporting Definitions. In deriving SS NOI, the Company defines NOI as rental revenue (as calculated in accordance with GAAP), including reimbursements, less property operating expenses, which excludes depreciation, amortization, general and administrative expenses and interest expense. For a discussion of cash-basis NOI, see definition of cash-basis NOI. The Company believes that SS NOI helps the investing public compare the operating performance of a company's real estate as compared to other companies. While SS NOI is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to those measures in evaluating our liquidity or operating performance. SS NOI also does not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest expenses, depreciation and amortization costs, capital expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and construction activities that could materially impact our results from operations. Further, the Company's computation of SS NOI may not be comparable to that of other real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating SS NOI.
Same Store Net Operating Income ("SS NOI").
The following table reconciles consolidated SS NOI and NOI from net income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 (dollars in thousands):
23
 
is a co-investment partnership formed in 2004 with a subsidiary of GIC Real Estate Pte Ltd.
AMB-SGP Mexico
is a co-investment partnership formed in 2005 with institutional investors. This fund is yen-denominated. U.S. dollar amounts are converted at the June 30, 2007 exchange rate.
AMB Japan Fund I
is an open-ended co-investment partnership formed in 2004 with institutional investors, which invest through a private REIT. Prior to October 1, 2006, the Company accounted for AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III as a consolidated joint venture.
AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III
is an open-ended co-investment venture formed in 2007 with institutional investors. This fund is euro-denominated. U.S. dollar amounts are converted at the June 30, 2007 exchange rate.
AMB Europe Fund I
is a co-investment partnership formed in 2006 with a subsidiary of GE Real Estate to build and sell properties in non-target markets.
AMB DFS Fund I
is a co-investment partnership formed in 1998 with the Erie Insurance Group.
AMB Erie
is a co-investment partnership formed in 2001 with the City and County of San Francisco Employees' Retirement System.
AMB Partners II
is a co-investment partnership formed in 2001 with a subsidiary of GIC Real Estate Pte Ltd.
AMB-SGP
is a co-investment partnership with institutional investors, which invest through a private REIT.
AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II
is a co-investment partnership with three Dutch pension funds advised by Mn Services NV and Cordares.
AMB-AMS
24
 
25
 
Some of the information included in this supplemental analyst package and the conference call to be held in connection therewith contains forward-looking statements, such as those related to development, value-added conversion, redevelopment and renovation projects (including stabilization dates, square feet at stabilization or completion, sale or contribution dates, weighted average estimated yields from such projects, costs and total investment amounts), acquisition capital, build out potential of land inventory, co-investment joint venture investment capacity, terms of the co-investment joint ventures, cost to buy out joint venture partners, lease expirations, future debt summaries, and future business plans (such as property divestitures and financings), which are made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, and you should not rely on the forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events or circumstances reflected in forward-looking statements might not occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "approximately," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates" or "anticipates" or the negative of these words and phrases or similar words or phrases. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily dependent on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and we may not be able to realize them. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak only as of the date of this report or the dates indicated in the statements. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements: defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, increased interest rates and operating costs, our failure to obtain necessary outside financing, re-financing risks, risks related to our obligations in the event of certain defaults under joint venture and other debt, risks related to debt and equity security financings (including dilution risk), difficulties in identifying properties to acquire and in effecting acquisitions, our failure to successfully integrate acquired properties and operations, our failure to divest properties we have contracted to sell or to timely reinvest proceeds from any divestitures, risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including construction delays, cost overruns, our inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to these activities), our failure to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust, risks related to our tax structuring, failure to maintain our current credit agency ratings, environmental uncertainties, risks related to natural disasters, financial market fluctuations, changes in general economic conditions or in the real estate sector, changes in real estate and zoning laws, a downturn in the U.S., California or global economy, risks related to doing business internationally and global expansion, losses in excess of our insurance coverage, unknown liabilities acquired in connection with acquired properties or otherwise and increases in real property tax rates. Our success also depends upon economic trends generally, including interest rates, income tax laws, governmental regulation, legislation, population changes and certain other matters discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
26


