FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20070803140725.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
On July 31, 2007, Afsaneh M. Beschloss, resigned as our director. On August 2, 2007, our board of directors appointed Carl B. Webb as an independent director to our board and a member of our Audit Committee and our Nominating & Governance Committee.
As an independent director, Mr. Webb is eligible to participate in the Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan of AMB Property Corporation and AMB Property, L.P., which was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K filed with the U.S Securities Exchange Commission on May 15, 2007. Under that plan, Mr. Webb is entitled to receive an option to purchase twenty thousand (20,000) shares of our common stock upon his initial election to the board of directors and may in the future be granted additional options to purchase our common stock, restricted common stock, performance awards, dividend equivalents, awards of deferred stock, and/or stock payments, at the discretion of our board of directors.
For meetings held during 2007, Mr. Webb, as a non-employee director, will receive $2,000 for each meeting of the Board of Directors and $1,500 for each meeting of a committee of the Board of Directors he attends. Each non-employee director is also reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred to attend Board and committee meetings and educational programs.
Forward Looking Statements
Some of the information included in this report contains forward-looking statements, such as those related to Mr. Webb's service as our board member and as a member of our audit and nominating and governance committees, and awards to Mr. Webb in connection with those services, which are made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, and you should not rely on the forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events or circumstances reflected in forward-looking statements might not occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "approximately," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates" or "anticipates" or the negative of these words and phrases or similar words or phrases. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily dependent on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and we may not be able to realize them. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak only as of the date of this press release or the dates indicated in the statements. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements: defaults on or non-renewal of leases by tenants, increased interest rates and operating costs, our failure to obtain necessary outside financing, re-financing risks, risks related to our obligations in the event of certain defaults under joint venture and other debt, risks related to debt and equity security financings (including dilution risk),
 
difficulties in identifying properties to acquire and in effecting acquisitions, our failure to successfully integrate acquired properties and operations, our failure to divest properties we have contracted to sell or to timely reinvest proceeds from any divestitures, risks and uncertainties affecting property development and construction (including construction delays, cost overruns, our inability to obtain necessary permits and public opposition to these activities), our failure to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust, risks related to our tax structuring, failure to maintain our current credit agency ratings, environmental uncertainties, risks related to natural disasters, financial market fluctuations, changes in general economic conditions or in the real estate sector, changes in real estate and zoning laws, a downturn in the U.S., California or global economy, risks related to doing business internationally and global expansion, losses in excess of our insurance coverage, unknown liabilities acquired in connection with acquired properties or otherwise and increases in real property tax rates. Our success also depends upon economic trends generally, including interest rates, income tax laws, governmental regulation, legislation, population changes and certain other matters discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


