FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20080909112234.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
On September 9, 2008, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-153379) and a prospectus supplement to the prospectus contained in the registration statement. The prospectus supplement was filed in connection with (i) the possible issuance to and resale by selling stockholders of up to 3,322,217 shares of our common stock and (ii) the possible resale only by certain selling stockholders of up to 926 shares of our common stock.
In connection with the filing of the prospectus supplement, we are filing as Exhibit 5.1 hereto an opinion of our counsel, Ballard Spahr Andrews & Ingersoll, LLP, regarding the validity of the securities being registered.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
             (d) Exhibits:
        
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 5.1
AMB Property Corporation Pier 1, Bay 1 San Francisco, California 94111
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We have acted as Maryland corporate counsel to the Company in connection with the registration of up to 3,323,143 shares (the "Shares") of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), of the Company, of which (i) up to 2,064,430 shares (the "OP Unit Shares") are to be issued by the Company to certain holders (the "OP Unit Selling Stockholders") of units of limited partnership interest (the "OP Units") or performance units of limited partnership interest (the "Performance Units") in AMB Property, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Operating Partnership"), upon exchange of such OP Units or Performance Units, as applicable; and (ii) up to 1,258,713 shares (the "Sub-OP Unit Shares") are to be issued by the Company to certain holders (the "Sub-OP Unit Selling Stockholders") of units of Class B common limited partnership interest (the "Sub-OP Units", and together with the OP Units and the Performance Units, collectively, the "Units") in AMB Property II, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Sub-Operating Partnership"), upon exchange of such Sub-OP Units, under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), by the Company on Form S-3 filed or to be filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on or about September 9, 2008 (the "Registration Statement"). You have requested our opinion with respect to the matters set forth below.
     In connection with our representation of the Company, and as a basis for the opinion hereinafter set forth, we have examined originals, or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of the following documents (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Documents"):
 
BALLARD SPAHR ANDREWS & INGERSOLL, LLP
AMB Property Corporation September 9, 2008 Page 2
 
BALLARD SPAHR ANDREWS & INGERSOLL, LLP
AMB Property Corporation September 9, 2008 Page 3
     Insofar as the opinions and other matters set forth herein constitute, or are based upon, factual matters, we have relied solely upon the Officer's Certificate and our knowledge. The words "our knowledge" signify that, in the course of our representation of the Company in matters with respect to which we have been engaged by the Company as Maryland corporate counsel, no information has come to our attention that would give us actual knowledge or actual notice of the inaccuracy of the statement, opinion or other matters so qualified. We have undertaken no independent investigation or verification of any such statements, opinions or matters. The words "our knowledge" and similar language used herein are intended to be limited to the knowledge of the attorneys within our firm who have represented the Company, as Maryland corporate counsel, in connection with the Registration Statement.
     In reaching the opinion set forth below, we have assumed the following:
 
BALLARD SPAHR ANDREWS & INGERSOLL, LLP
AMB Property Corporation September 9, 2008 Page 4
 
BALLARD SPAHR ANDREWS & INGERSOLL, LLP
AMB Property Corporation September 9, 2008 Page 5
     Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the assumptions, limitations and qualifications set forth herein, it is our opinion that:
     The foregoing opinion is limited to the substantive laws of the State of Maryland, and we do not express any opinion herein concerning any other law. We express no opinion as to the applicability or effect of any federal or state securities laws, including the securities laws of the State of Maryland, or as to federal or state laws regarding fraudulent transfers. To the extent that any matter as to which our opinion is expressed herein would be governed by any jurisdiction other than the State of Maryland, we do not express any opinion on such matter.
     This opinion letter is issued as of the date hereof and is necessarily limited to laws now in effect and facts and circumstances presently existing and brought to our attention. We assume no obligation to supplement this opinion letter if any applicable laws change after the date hereof, or if we become aware of any facts or circumstances that now exist or that occur or arise in the future and may change the opinions expressed herein after the date hereof.
 
BALLARD SPAHR ANDREWS & INGERSOLL, LLP
AMB Property Corporation September 9, 2008 Page 6
     We consent to your filing this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and further consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the applications to securities commissioners for the various states of the United States for registration of the Shares. We also consent to the identification of our firm as Maryland counsel to the Company in the section of the Registration Statement entitled "Legal Matters". In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required by Section 7 of the Act.


