FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20080605152440.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): May 30, 2008
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On May 30, 2008, AMB Property, L.P., our subsidiary of which we are the general partner, entered into a euros 142,000,000 364-day multi-currency revolving facility agreement and related guarantee as loan guarantor with our affiliate AMB Fund Management S. r.l. on behalf of AMB Europe Fund I FCP-FIS as the obligors' agent and a potential borrower, certain of our European affiliates as original borrowers, ING Real Estate Finance N.V. and certain of its European affiliates as lenders and ING Real Estate Finance N.V. as facility agent.
The facility agreement provides that certain of the affiliates of AMB Europe Fund I FCP-FIS, may borrow unsecured loans in an aggregate amount of up to euros 142,000,000 all of which are repayable 364 days after the date of the facility agreement (unless otherwise agreed). All amounts owed under the facility agreement are guaranteed by AMB Property, L.P.
The margin applicable to drawings under the facility is 95 basis points over EURIBOR (or over LIBOR for loans denominated in a currency other than euros). An additional margin of 100 basis points will be payable if AMB Property, L.P.'s credit rating fails to meet certain levels. An upfront utilisation fee of 30 basis points is payable on the total amount of the facility.
The facility agreement contains affirmative covenants (including, without limitation, financial reporting requirements, real estate covenants and the maintenance of specified financial ratios) and negative covenants (including, without limitation, negative pledge provisions, restrictions on disposals and joint ventures) which are, in general, obligations at a borrower level and not directly applicable to us. In addition, the facility agreement includes events (including, without limitation, non-payment under the facility agreement, material breaches of representations and covenants, certain insolvency related events and an acceleration under the third amended and restated revolving credit agreement, dated as of June 1, 2006, by and among us, as borrower, the banks listed on the signature pages thereof, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent for alternate currencies, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as administrative agent, Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, Eurohypo AG, New York Branch, Wachovia Bank, N.A. and PNC Bank, National Association as documentation agents, The Bank of Nova Scotia, acting through its San Francisco Agency, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., ING Real Estate Finance (USA) LLC and LaSalle Bank National Association, as managing agents) some of which, if not cured within any applicable time period, would constitute a mandatory prepayment event or an event of default. Failure to mandatorily prepay or the existence of an outstanding event of default gives the facility agent the right to accelerate the loans, cancel outstanding commitments and call upon our guarantee.
ING Real Estate Finance (USA) LLC is a managing agent under our third amended and restated revolving credit agreement date as of June 1, 2006, described above. ING Real Estate Finance NV and certain of its European affiliates are lenders and security agents and ING Real Estate Finance NV is facility agent under our euros facility agreement dated as of December 8, 2006, as amended on March 21, 2007.
AMB Fund Management S. r.l. on behalf of AMB Europe Fund I FCP-FIS has indemnified AMB Property, L.P. for all of its obligations under the guarantee.
A copy of the facility agreement, the guarantee and the counter-indemnity are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3, respectively, and are incorporated into this current report by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     d) Exhibits.
(
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
Page I
 
 
Page II
 
is dated 30 May 2008.
THIS AGREEMENT
:
Between
as follows:
It is agreed
In this Agreement:
has the meaning set out in Schedule 6 ().
Accounting Date
Financial Covenants
has the meaning set out in Schedule 6 ().
Accounting Period
Financial Covenants
means the acquisition by any Borrower, any PropCo or any ShareCo (as the case may be) of:
Acquisition
and which such acquisition is or will be financed or refinanced by the Facility.
means:
Acquisition Document
 
means any member of the Group that accedes to this Agreement as an Additional Borrower.
Additional Borrower
means the additional margin per annum determined, at any time, based on the range into which Loan Guarantor's Credit Rating then falls, in accordance with the table set forth below. Any change in Loan Guarantor's Credit Rating causing it to move to a different range on the table shall effect an immediate change in the Additional Margin. The Loan Guarantor shall have not less than two (2) Credit Ratings at all times. In the event that Loan Guarantor receives only two (2) Credit Ratings (one of which must be from S&P or Moody's), and such Credit Ratings are not equivalent, the Additional Margin shall be determined by the higher of such two (2) Credit Ratings. In the event that Loan Guarantor receives more than two (2) Credit Ratings, and such Credit Ratings are not all equivalent, the Additional Margin shall be determined by the highest Credit Rating, provided that said highest rating shall be from S&P or Moody's; provided, further, that if the highest rating is not from S&P or Moody's, then the Additional Margin shall be determined by the highest Credit Rating from either S&P or Moody's.
Additional Margin
means any member of the Logistics Fund Group that accedes to this Agreement as an Additional Obligor.
Additional Obligor
means any member of the Logistics Fund Group that accedes to this Agreement as an Additional PropCo.
Additional PropCo
means any real property acquired (directly or indirectly) by a Borrower or a PropCo (other than an Original Property) which is financed by a Loan and over which security is granted in accordance with, and subject to, the terms of this Agreement including all Heritable Building Rights, Buildings, fixtures (including trade fixtures) and fixed plant and machinery and other structures now or in the future on it and all easements, access-rights, rights of way, wayleaves, servitudes and rights attaching to it and in each case each and every part of it.
Additional Property
means any member of the Group that accedes to this Agreement as an Additional ShareCo.
Additional ShareCo
means a Subsidiary or a Holding Company of a person or any other Subsidiary of that Holding Company.
Affiliate
means the Facility Agent.
Agent
means the Facility Agent's spot rate of exchange for the purchase of the relevant currency with the Base Currency in the Amsterdam foreign exchange market at or about 11.00 a.m. on a particular day.
Agent's Spot Rate Exchange
means an agreement to grant an Occupational Lease of all or part of a Property.
Agreement for Lease
Page 2
 
means:
AMB Agent
means the loan made available to the borrowers under the AMB Property L.P. Loan Agreement.
AMB Property L.P. Loan
meand the third amended and restated revolving credit agreement, dated as of 1 June, 2006 by and amoung AMB Property L.P., as Borrower, the banks listed on the signature pages thereof, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as Adminstrative Agent for Alternate Currencies, Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Boookrunners, Eurohypo AG, New York Branch, Wachovia Bank, N.A.. and PNC Bank, National Association, as Documentation Agents, The Bank of Nova Scotia, acting through its San Francisco Agency, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., ING Real Estate Finance (USA) LLC and LaSalle Bank National Assocation, as Managing Agents (as may be amended from time to time).
AMB Property L.P Loan Agreement
has the meaning set out in Clause 22.5(c) ().
AMB Property L.P. Loan Prepayment Event
Cross-default
means a Lender's Commitment minus:
Available Commitment
means the aggregate for the time being of each Lender's Available Commitment.
Available Facility
means the later of (i) 364 days after the date of this Agreement and (ii) such other date as may be agreed from time to time, by the AMB Agent and the Lenders.
Availability Period
means euro.
Base Currency
means, in relation to a Loan, the amount specified in the Request delivered by a Borrower for that Loan (or, if the amount requested is not denominated in the Base Currency, that amount converted into the Base Currency at the Agent's Spot Rate of Exchange on the date the Agent receives a Request or on the date any subsequent calculation or determination of the amount of that Loan is to be made) adjusted to reflect any repayment (other than a repayment arising from a change of currency), prepayment, consolidation or division of the Loan.
Base Currency Amount
means 0.95 per cent. per annum on each Loan.
Base Margin
Page 3
 
means an Obligor that is incorporated or established in Belgium.
Belgian Obligor
means the Original Borrowers or any Additional Borrower, as the case may be.
Borrower
means the jurisdiction in which the relevant Borrower is subject to unlimited tax liability in regard to its world-wide income.
Borrower's Tax Jurisdiction
means the amount (if any) which a Lender is entitled to receive under Clause 27.3 (sts).
Break Costs
Indemnities and Break Co
means logistics warehouses and other ancillary related property.
Buildings
means a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks are open for general business in Amsterdam and London and:
Business Day
means the date which falls three months after the date of completion of any Acquisition and the accession to this Agreement of any Additional Obligor pursuant to Clause 30 ().
Clean-Up Date
Changes to Parties
means the first Utilisation Date of each Loan.
Closing Date
means each Lender's obligation to provide funds to the Borrowers in accordance with this Agreement, to the extent not cancelled, transferred or reduced under this Agreement.
Commitment
means a condition precedent to this Agreement and which is set out in Schedule 2 ().
Condition Precedent
Conditions Precedent
means a completed form of the official English translation (amtliche bersetzung of the "Bescheinigung im Sinne der Rn. 5 des BMF-Schreibens vom 22. Juli 2005 (BStBl. I 2005 S. 829)") that is provided by the Facility Agent solely to assist the Borrowers under the German Loans in demonstrating the absence of any back-to-back financing to the German tax authorities.
Confirmation Letter
means a form of credit support to the Facility Agent's satisfaction (acting reasonably) that may include a letter of credit, bond or a bank guarantee.
Credit Support
means the agreement substantially in the form of Schedule 8 () entered into or to be entered into by, inter alia, certain of the Obligors, Original Lenders, Facility Agent and Facility Agent and certain other members of the Logistics Fund Group to subordinate any and all Intra-Group Loans made directly to the Borrowers.
Deed of Subordination
Form of Deed of Subordination
Page 4
 
means:
Default
means the account with ING Bank NV, Utrecht, The Netherlands in the name of the AMB Agent in which a Borrower or the AMB Agent (on behalf of a Borrower or Borrowers) deposits proceeds in accordance with Clause 20.5(c)(ii)(B) or Clause 27.3(d).
Disposal Proceeds Account
means a Borrower that is incorporated or established in The Netherlands.
Dutch Borrower
means an Obligor which is incorporated or established in The Netherlands.
Dutch Obligor
means any country specified in Schedule 10 () and any other country agreed by the Facility Agent (acting upon instructions of the Lenders).
Eligible Country
Eligible Country
means
Eligible Currency
means the occurrence of an Event of Default that has resulted in the Facility Agent serving notice in accordance with Clause 22.20 () and, because of which, the Facility Agent may enforce its rights in accordance with this Agreement or the Loan Guarantee.
Enforcement Event
Notice of Event of Default
means an Obligor which is incorporated or established in England and Wales.
England and Wales Obligor
has the meaning set out in Clause 21.3 ().
Environmental Law
Environmental matters
means any place of operations where a member of the Logistics Fund Group carries on non-transitory economic activity with human means and goods.
Establishment
means for an Interest Period of any Loan or overdue amount:
EURIBOR
as of 11.00 a.m. (Central European time) on the Rate Fixing Day for the offering of deposits in euro for a period comparable to the Interest Period of that relevant Loan.
or means the single currency of the Participating Member States.
euro
Page 5
 
means:
Event of Default
means the acquisition loan facility made available under this Agreement.
Facility
means ING Real Estate Finance NV.
Facility Agent
means the office(s) notified by a Lender to the Facility Agent:
Facility Office
as the office(s) through which it will perform its obligations under this Agreement.
means any letter entered into by reference to this Agreement between the Facility Agent and the AMB Agent setting out the amount of certain fees referred to in this Agreement.
Fee Letter
means the last day of the Availability Period.
Final Maturity Date
means:
Finance Document
means a Lender or, where an Agent is acting on behalf of a Lender, that Agent.
Finance Party
Page 6
 
has the meaning set out in Schedule 6 ().
Financial Indebtedness
Financial Covenants
means, in relation to each relevant Property, the value on foreclosure of that Property as determined by the provider(s) of the most recent Valuation in relation to it or, if the AMB Agent and the Facility Agent agree otherwise, by such other valuer(s) or surveyor(s) as they may agree. In the event that the provider(s) of the most recent Valuation(s) of the relevant Property is/are not able to provide such a foreclosure valuation and the AMB Agent and the Facility Agent are not able to agree on alternative valuer(s) or surveyor(s), the foreclosure value of each relevant Property shall be determined by a valuer or surveyor selected by Knight Frank.
Foreclosure Value
means a Loan for which a Short Form Agreement is signed by the relevant parties in accordance with Clause 14.1.
French Loan
means an Obligor that is incorporated or established in France.
French Obligor
means the consequences of any event or circumstances affecting the activities of any Fund Obligor, its assets or its financial position (taken as a whole) which:
Fund Material Adverse Effect
means the Loan Guarantor or the Logistics Fund.
Fund Obligor
means a Loan in which the Borrower of the Loan has its statutory seat or seat of management in Germany.
German Loan
means use, rights, rights of way and other rights granted to third parties which are registered in Division II of the public land register in Germany at the time of the acquisition of the relevant Property by the Borrower and which have no material impact on the value of the relevant Property and the value and effectiveness of the Security Interest granted or to be granted with respect to the relevant Property, in both cases as determined by the Facility Agent in its reasonable discretion, or which are permitted by the Facility Agent.
German Permitted Encumbrances
means a Property which is situated in Germany and in relation to which a Loan has been advanced and is outstanding.
German Property
means a German company with limited liability ().
GmbH
Gesellschaft mit beschrnkter Haftung
has the meaning set out in Clause 22.5(c) ().
Grace Period
Cross-default
means the corporate group structure chart delivered to the Facility Agent on or before the first Utilisation Date and any subsequent corporate group structure chart delivered to the Facility Agent, upon request, from time to time, and which reflects the corporate relationship of the Obligors.
Group Structure Chart
Page 7
 
means a right, in rem, to own a building on a plot of land according to the German Heritable Right Ordinance () and is held as freehold () or that satisfies all the following conditions:
Heritable Building Right
Verordnung ber das Erbbaurecht
Alleineigentum
of any other person means a company in respect of which that other person is a Subsidiary.
Holding Company
means EURIBOR or LIBOR.
IBOR
means:
Increased Cost
which is incurred or suffered by a Finance Party or any of its Affiliates but only to the extent attributable to that Finance Party having entered into any Finance Document or funding or performing its obligations under any Finance Document.
means a Valuation of the Original Properties.
Initial Valuation
has the meaning given to it in Clause 21.2(a).
Insurances
means either the last day of the relevant Interest Period if, however, any such day is not a Business Day, the Interest Payment Date will instead be the next Business Day in that calendar month (if there is one) or the preceding Business Day (if there is not).
Interest Payment Date
means each period determined under this Agreement (including Clause 9.3 () and Clause 10 ()) by reference to which interest on a Loan or an overdue amount is calculated.
Interest Period
Interest on overdue amounts
Interest Periods
means the date on which the first Loan (or more than one Loan on that same date) is utilised under this Agreement.
Initial Closing Date
means loans made by a member of the Logistics Fund Group to another member of the Logistics Fund Group.
Intra-Group Loans
means a Loan for which a short form agreement is signed by the relevant parties in accordance with Clause 13.2 ().
Italian Loan
Italy
means an Obligor that is incorporated or established in Italy.
Italian Obligor
means any joint venture with a third party that is not an Affiliate, whether a company, unincorporated firm, undertaking, association, joint venture or partnership or any other entity.
Joint Venture
Page 8
 
means, in respect of a Property, the applicable land registry.
Land Registry
means:
Lease Document
(a) an Agreement for Lease;
means:
Legal Reservations
means:
Lender
means for an Interest Period of any Loan or overdue amount which in either case is in a currency other than euro:
LIBOR
means, unless otherwise stated in this Agreement, the principal amount of each borrowing under this Agreement or the principal amount outstanding of that borrowing.
Loan
Page 9
 
means the guarantee granted by the Loan Guarantor under a separate New York law guarantee dated on or around the date hereof in respect of the obligations of the Borrowers under the Loans.
Loan Guarantee
means, at any time:
Loan to Value
means AMB Europe Fund I FCP-FIS, a organised under the form of a .
Logistics Fund
fonds commun de placement
fonds d'investissement specialis
means the Logistics Fund and its Subsidiaries from time to time.
Logistics Fund Group
means any long term interest bearing deposits within the meaning of marginal notes () 20 and 37 of the decree of the German Federal Ministry of Finance, dated 25 July 2004 (BStBl. I 2004, P. 593) in conjunction with the administrative guidelines of the German Trade Tax Code () granted as security by a person other than the relevant German Obligor as collateral for the credit enhancement of such German Obligor and only if such German Obligor is closely related to the provider of the security within the meaning of  1 (2) CFC-law ().
Long Term Interest Bearing Deposits
Textziffern
Gewerbesteuerrichtlinien
Auensteuergesetz
means, at any time, Lenders:
Majority Lenders
means the percentage rate per annum calculated by the Facility Agent in accordance with Schedule 4 ().
Mandatory Cost
Calculation of the Mandatory Cost
means the sum of the Base Margin and the Additional Margin.
Margin
means the consequences of any event or circumstances which is both a Fund Material Adverse Effect and an Obligor Material Adverse Effect.
Material Adverse Effect
means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
means the gross proceeds of any disposal permitted in accordance with this Agreement plus the proceeds of any Top-Up Contribution in relation to such disposal less an amount evidenced by the relevant Borrower (or, as the case may be, PropCo) or the AMB Agent, in any such
Net Disposal Proceeds
Page 10
 
case, to the reasonable satisfaction of the Facility Agent prior to the disposal as being that Borrower's, that PropCo's or that AMB Agent's good faith estimate of the costs and expenses associated with that disposal (including repayments of principal) in each case supported by evidence in form and substance satisfactory to the Facility Agent (acting reasonably).
means a Borrower that is not a party to this Agreement as an Original Borrower as of the date of this Agreement but who subsequently becomes a party pursuant to Clause 30 ().
New Borrower
Changes to Parties
has the meaning given to it in Clause 30.2 ().
New Lender
Assignments and transfers by Lenders
means a Borrower, the Loan Guarantor, a PropCo, a ShareCo or an Additional Obligor.
Obligor
means a certificate by an Obligor or Obligors that satisfies paragraph 4 of Part B of Schedule 2 (), paragraph 4 of Part C of Schedule 2 () and/or paragraph 13 of Part C of Schedule 2 ().
Obligor Certificate
Conditions Precedent  Upon signing this Agreement
Conditions Precedent  Loan
Conditions Precedent  Loan
means the consequences of any event or circumstances affecting the activities of any Obligor (excluding the Logistics Fund), their assets or their financial position (taken as a whole) which:
Obligor Material Adverse Effect
means any lease or licence or other right of occupation or right to receive rent to which a Property may at any time be subject.
Occupational Lease
means a currency (other than the Base Currency) in which a Loan is denominated under the Agreement.
Optional Currency
means the financial institutions listed in Part D of Schedule 1 ().
Original Lenders
Original Parties and Properties
means each property listed in Part E of Schedule 1 () which is financed by a Loan made on the Initial Closing Date including all Heritable Building Rights, Buildings, fixtures (including trade fixtures) and fixed plant and machinery and other structures now or in the future on it and all easements, access-rights, rights of way, wayleaves, servitudes and rights attaching to it and in each case each and every part of it.
Original Property
Original Parties and Properties
means the Loan Guarantor and its Subsidiaries from time to time.
Parent Group
means a member state of the European Communities that adopts or has adopted the euro as its lawful currency under the legislation of the European Community for Economic Monetary Union.
Participating Member State
Page 11
 
means a party to this Agreement.
Party
means a disclosure to which the Facility Agent, in its absolute discretion, consents before an Additional Obligor accedes to this Agreement and which following any such consent will qualify any of the representations and warranties and covenants set out in this Agreement.
Permitted Disclosure
means an encumbrance on a Property or over Shares or other assets of any Obligor, which is permitted pursuant to Clause 20.4(b)(i).
Permitted Encumbrance
means a payment made by a Borrower provided that:
Permitted Payment
means all applicable laws and regulations governing or controlling the use or development of land and property, including building permissions.
Planning/Zoning Laws
means an Original Property and/or an Additional Property, as the context may require.
Property
means an Obligor that directly owns or is to acquire one or more Properties each of which has been or will be financed by a Loan and includes an Original PropCo and any Additional PropCo.
PropCo
means a Lender:
Qualifying Lender
Page 12
 
means, in respect of an Interest Period:
Rate Fixing Day
in relation to an amount in euro, the principal offices of Citibank, Banque Nationale de Paris and Deutsche Bank in Europe or, in relation to an amount in a currency other than euro, the principal London offices of Citibank, Banque Nationale de Paris and Deutsche Bank or such other banks as may be appointed by the Facility Agent in consultation with the AMB Agent.
Reference Institutions
means a letter from a third party upon which the Facility Agent (on behalf of the Lenders) may rely, as authorised by that third party.
Reliance Letter
means a reply to a Request for a Loan substantially in the form of Schedule 9 ().
Reply
Reply to a Request
means a request for a Loan substantially in the form of Schedule 3 ().
Request
Form of Request
means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. or any successor to its rating business.
S&P
means the percentage rate per annum determined by:
Screen Rate
for the relevant currency and Interest Period displayed on the appropriate page of the Bloomberg screen selected by the Facility Agent. If the relevant page is replaced or the service ceases to be available, the Facility Agent (after consultation with the AMB Agent and the Lenders) may specify another page or service displaying the appropriate rate.
means any mortgage, pledge, lien, charge, assignment, hypothecation or security interest or any other agreement or arrangement having a similar effect.
Security Interest
means an Obligor that owns shares in a PropCo but does not own any Property itself and includes each Original ShareCo and any Additional ShareCo.
ShareCo
means shares acquired by a ShareCo in a PropCo in connection with the acquisition of Property and/or Buildings and which is to be financed or refinanced by the Facility.
Shares
means a short form agreement signed in relation to an Italian Loan, a Spanish Loan or a French Loan.
Short Form Agreement
Page 13
 
means a certificate by an Obligor or Obligors that satisfies paragraph 2 of Part B of Schedule 2 () and/or paragraph 2 of Part C of Schedule 2 ().
Signature Certificate
Conditions Precedent  Upon signing this Agreement
Conditions Precedent Loan
means a Loan for which a short form agreement is signed by the relevant parties in accordance with Clause 13.3 ().
Spanish Loan
Spain
means an Obligor that is incorporated or established in Spain
Spanish Obligor
and means the lawful currency for the time being of the United Kingdom.
sterling
means, with respect to a specified person, any other person directly or indirectly controlled by or under direct or indirect control of such person. For purpose of this definition, when used with respect to any specified person means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
Subsidiary
control
means the date that a substitution of a Property takes place in accordance with Clause 24 ().
Substitution Date
Substitution
means a day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer payment system is open for the settlement of payments in euro.
TARGET Day
means any tax, levy, impost, duty or other charge or withholding of a similar nature (including any related penalty or interest).
Tax
means a credit against, relief for, remission for, or repayment of any Tax.
Tax Credit
means a deduction or withholding for, or on account of, Tax from a payment under a Finance Document.
Tax Deduction
means a payment, or increased payment, made by an Obligor to a Finance Party in any way relating to a Tax Deduction, or under any indemnity, given by that Obligor in respect of Tax under any Finance Document.
Tax Payment
means the letter in substantially the same form as Schedule 7 () and in accordance with Clause 13.1(b).
TEG Letter
Form of TEG Letter
means a contribution (made directly or indirectly) by the Loan Guarantor or the Logistics Fund into a Borrower or a PropCo whether by way of a subscription for equity in such Borrower or the advance of a shareholder loan pursuant to an Intra-Group Loan.
Top-Up Contribution
means the aggregate maximum principal amount of 142,000,000.
Total Commitments
means:
Transaction Document
Page 14
 
means a certificate, substantially in the form of Part A () or Part B () of Schedule 5 () or any other form agreed between the Facility Agent and the AMB Agent.
Transfer Certificate
Form of Transfer Certificate for Transfers by Assignment
Form of Transfer Certificate - Transfers by Novation
Forms of Transfer Documents
means in respect of a Lender which has advanced a Loan to a Borrower under this Agreement, a Lender, which, on an Interest Payment Date:
Treaty Lender
means the E.U. State of a Lender in accordance with Clause 5.5(a)(i) or 5.5(a)(ii) that has a double taxation agreement with the E.U State to which the relevant Borrower is subject for taxation purposes and, thereby, making the Loan of such Lender and Borrower exempt from taxation on interest.
Treaty State
means, in respect of an Obligor (as the case may be), the occurrence of one or more events in Clause 22 ().
Trigger Event
Trigger Events and Events of Default
means a utilisation of the Facility.
Utilisation
means each date on which a Facility is utilised.
Utilisation Date
means in relation to a Property, a valuation (or, as the case may be, the latest valuation) of that Property by the Valuer prepared on a basis acceptable to the Facility Agent (acting reasonably) on a gross value basis :
Valuation
less
Page 15
 
means the valuer or surveyor selected by the AMB Agent (or relevant Borrower) with the consent of the Facility Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
Valuer
means value added tax, or any other tax of a similar nature.
VAT
1.2 Construction
(a) In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to:
Page 16
 
Page 17
 
1.3 Corporate benefit restrictions
2. FACILITY
2.1 Facility
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Lenders make available to the Borrowers a multicurrency revolving loan facility in an aggregate amount equal to the Total Commitments provided that as at the Utilisation Date of any Loan to be advanced on such date:
2.2 Nature of rights and obligations
Unless all the Finance Parties agree otherwise:
Page 18
 
2.3 Appointment of agent for the Obligors
3. PURPOSE
3.1 Loans
Page 19
 
3.2 No obligation to monitor
No Finance Party is bound to monitor or verify the utilisation of the Facility.
4. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT
4.1 Conditions precedent documents
4.2 Further conditions precedent
5. UTILISATION
5.1 Giving of Requests
Page 20
 
5.2 Completion of Requests
Page 21
 
5.3 Unavailability of a currency
the Facility Agent must give notice to the Borrower to that effect and in any event before 11.00 a.m. on that day. In this event:
5.4 Reply to a Request
Following the giving of a Request, the Facility Agent shall deliver to AMB Agent a Reply substantially in the form of Schedule 9 ().
Reply to a Request
Page 22
 
5.5 Advance of Loan
6. FACILITY
6.1 Property for a Loan
6.2 Request for multiple Borrowers
The AMB Agent (acting on the instruction of the relevant Borrowers) shall have the right to request that a Loan be borrowed by more than one Borrower in accordance with this Clause 6 ().
Facility
6.3 Consent to multiple Borrowers
The Facility Agent shall only be obliged to consent to multiple Borrowers for a Loan in accordance with Clause 6.2 if the AMB Agent has obtained the Facility Agent's written consent prior to the date of any Request for the relevant Loan. Such consent may not be unreasonably withheld or delayed by the Facility Agent and shall be subject to the condition that any Loan advanced to multiple Borrowers
Page 23
 
shall, when advanced, constitute a joint and several liability of each such Borrower for the whole Loan.
6.4 Failure to consent
If a Request is made by the AMB Agent for multiple Borrowers in accordance with Clause 6.2 and the Facility Agent's written consent has not been obtained prior to the date of such Request in accordance with Clause 6.3, the relevant Request shall be without effect and the Facility Agent shall be under no obligation to make the relevant Loan.
7. REPAYMENT
8. PREPAYMENT AND CANCELLATION
8.1 Mandatory prepayment  Illegality
8.2 Prepayment  Tax and Increased Costs
Page 24
 
8.3 Mandatory Prepayment following the occurrence of certain Trigger Events
8.4 Voluntary prepayment
Page 25
 
8.5 Automatic cancellation
The Commitment of each Lender under the Facility will be automatically cancelled in full at the close of business on the last day of the Availability Period.
8.6 Miscellaneous provisions
9. INTEREST
9.1 Calculation of interest
The rate of interest on a Loan for each Interest Period is the percentage rate per annum which is the aggregate of:
Page 26
 
9.2 Payment of interest
Except where it is provided to the contrary in this Agreement, each Borrower shall pay accrued interest on each Loan made to it on each of the Interest Payment Dates applicable to that Loan.
9.3 Interest on overdue amounts
Page 27
 
9.4 Notification of rates of interest
The Facility Agent shall promptly notify each relevant Party of the determination of a rate of interest under this Agreement.
10. INTEREST PERIODS
10.1 Interest Periods
11. MARKET DISRUPTION
11.1 Failure of a Reference Bank to supply a rate
If the applicable IBOR is to be calculated by reference to the Reference Institutions but a Reference Bank does not supply a rate by 2.00 p.m. (Central European Time) on a Rate Fixing Day, the applicable IBOR will, subject as provided below, be calculated on the basis of the rates of the remaining Reference Institutions.
11.2 Market disruption
Page 28
 
11.3 Alternative basis of interest or funding
12. TAXES
12.1 Tax gross-up
it shall promptly notify the Facility Agent. The Facility Agent shall then promptly notify the affected Parties.
Page 29
 
12.2 Tax indemnity
if that Tax is imposed on or calculated by reference to the net income received or receivable by that Finance Party. However, any payment deemed to be received or receivable, including any amount treated as income but not actually received by the Finance Party, such as a Tax Deduction, will not be treated as net income received or receivable for this purpose.
Page 30
 
12.3 Tax Credit
If an Obligor makes a Tax Payment and the relevant Finance Party reasonably establishes that:
(b) it has used and retained that Tax Credit,
the Finance Party shall pay an amount to that Obligor which that Finance Party reasonably establishes that such payment will leave it (after that payment) in the same after-tax position as it would have been if the Tax Payment had not been required to be made by the Obligor.
12.4 Miscellaneous taxes
Each Obligor shall pay and indemnify each Finance Party against any cost, loss or liability that a Finance Party incurs in relation to stamp duty, registration or other similar Tax payable in connection with the entry into, performance or enforcement of any Finance Document, except for:
12.5 Value added taxes
Page 31
 
12.6 No legal or tax advice provided by Finance Parties
No Finance Party is providing any legal and/or tax advice to any other Party with respect to this Agreement. It is the responsibility of each Obligor to consult its own legal and tax advisers.
13. ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTATION
13.1 France
13.2 Italy
Page 32
 
13.3 Spain
Each Obligor whose law of incorporation is the law of Spain, shall execute by no later than the Utilisation Date of each Loan advanced to it, a Short Form Agreement if it is necessary to lodge with the relevant authorities a form of this Agreement in order to:
14. INCREASED COSTS
14.1 Increased Costs
Except as provided in Clause 14.2 (), each Obligor shall pay to a Finance Party the amount of any Increased Cost incurred by that Finance Party or any of its Affiliates as a result of any change, after the date of this Agreement, to any law, regulation, provision or directive including, but not limited to:
Exceptions
that entails an increase in the cost to the Lender of complying with its obligations under this Agreement.
14.2 Exceptions
No Obligor need make any payment for an Increased Cost to the extent that the Increased Cost is:
Page 33
 
14.3 Claims
15. MITIGATION
15.1 Mitigation
15.2 Conduct of business by a Finance Party
No term of this Agreement will:
Page 34
 
16. PAYMENTS
16.1 Place
Unless a Finance Document specifies that payments under it are to be made in another manner, all payments by a Party (other than the Facility Agent) under the Finance Documents shall be made to the Facility Agent to its account at such office or bank in the principal financial centre of a Participating Member State (as it may notify to that Party and for this purpose by not less than five (5) Business Days' prior notice).
16.2 Funds
Payments under the Finance Documents to the Facility Agent shall be made for value on the due date at such times and in such funds as the Facility Agent may specify to the Party concerned as being customary at the time for the settlement of transactions in the relevant currency in the place for payment.
16.3 Distribution
16.4 Currency
Page 35
 
16.5 No set-off or counterclaim
All payments made by an Obligor under the Finance Documents shall be calculated and made without (and free and clear of any deduction for) set-off or counterclaim.
16.6 Business Days
16.7 Partial payments
16.8 Timing of payments
If a Finance Document does not provide for when a particular payment is due, that payment will be due within five (5) Business Days of demand by the relevant Finance Party.
Page 36
 
17. RECOURSE
17.1 Recourse
Each Loan shall be a full recourse obligation of the relevant Borrower and shall have the benefit of the Loan Guarantee.
17.2 Recourse  Generally
A Lender which is a Lender of the Facility will in the case of an enforcement of its rights under the Facility, have recourse pursuant to Clause 17.1 () only.
Recourse  Facility
17.3 Limitation on Recourse on Fund Obligors
The Finance Parties hereby acknowledge and agree that they shall not have any recourse to the constituent partners, shareholders, members or trustees of any Fund Obligor (nor to their respective officers, directors, partners, shareholders, members or trustees) except that the Loan Guarantor (but not its constituent partners, shareholders, members or trustees nor their respective officers, directors, partners, shareholders, members or trustees) shall be liable in respect of the Loan Guarantee.
18. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE OBLIGORS
18.1 Representations and warranties
The representations and warranties set out in this Clause 18 () are made by each Obligor (unless otherwise specified) in respect of itself only to each Finance Party except that:
Representations and warranties of the Obligors
(d)  Clause 18.15 () shall apply.
Times for making representations and warranties
18.2 Status
Page 37
 
18.3 Powers and authority
It has the power to enter into and perform, and has taken all necessary action to authorise the entry into and performance by it of the Finance Documents to which it is or will be a party and the transactions undertaken by it contemplated by those Finance Documents.
18.4 Legal validity
Subject to the Legal Reservations, the obligations expressed to be assumed by it in each Finance Document to which it is a party are legal, binding, valid and enforceable obligations.
18.5 Non-conflict
The entry into and performance by it of, and the transactions contemplated by, the Finance Documents to which it is a party do not conflict with:
18.6 No default
18.7 Authorisations
All material authorisations required by it in connection with the entry into, validity and enforceability of, and the transactions contemplated by, the Transaction Documents to which it is a party, and without which there is reasonably likely to be a Material Adverse Effect, have been obtained or effected (as appropriate) and are in full force and effect or, in each case, will be when required.
18.8 Financial statements
Its financial statements most recently delivered to the Finance Parties (or, if not yet available, any other sufficient current financial information provided to the Finance Parties) have, to the best of its knowledge:
Page 38
 
18.9 Litigation
No litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings are current or pending in relation to it which, in either case, have or, if adversely determined, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
18.10 Insolvency Proceedings
No insolvency or similar proceedings of the type specified in Clause 22.7 () have been instituted against it, and to the best of its knowledge no such proceedings are threatened or pending against it (other than proceedings which are frivolous and are dismissed, stayed or discharged within twenty-one (21) days of commencement).
Insolvency proceedings
18.11 Information
Page 39
 
18.12 Acquisition Document claims
No material warranty claims are outstanding or have been made under an Acquisition Document to which it is a party which are reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
18.13 Group Structure Chart
The Group Structure Chart provided to the Facility Agent as at the date of this Agreement shows the correct corporate relationship of the Original Obligors.
18.14 Taxes
The Taxes payable by the Obligors in relation to the Properties have been paid at their due date (unless they are being contested in good faith) including, but not limited to, Taxes payable pursuant to the Lease Documents, and no claim that is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect has been made by the tax authorities against any of the Obligors in relation to the Properties.
18.15 Times for making representations and warranties
19. INFORMATION COVENANTS
19.1 General
Each Obligor agrees to be bound by the covenants set out in this Clause 19 () that are stated to be applicable to it relating to itself only and shall not be responsible for the covenants hereunder made by any other number of the Logistics Fund Group.
Information Covenants
19.2 Financial statements
Page 40
 
19.3 Form of financial statements
19.4 Notification of Default
Unless the Facility Agent has already been so notified by another Obligor, each Obligor shall notify the Facility Agent without delay if any Event of Default has occurred in relation to it and of any facts and circumstances which have a Material Adverse Effect in relation to it.
19.5 Know your customer requirements
Page 41
 
Finance Party or prospective new Lender to carry out and be satisfied with the results of all applicable know your customer requirements.
19.6 Group Structure Chart
19.7 Compliance Certificate
19.8 Valuations
Page 42
 
20. GENERAL COVENANTS
20.1 General
Each Obligor agrees to be bound by the covenants set out in this Clause 20 () that are stated to be applicable to it relating to itself only and shall not be responsible for the covenants hereunder made by any other member of the Logistics Fund Group but as otherwise qualified by any Permitted Disclosure.
General Covenants
20.2 Authorisations
It shall comply with the terms of any authorisation required under any law or regulation to:
20.3 Pari passu ranking
Each Obligor shall ensure that its payment obligations under the Finance Documents at all times rank at least with all its other present and future unsecured payment obligations, except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to companies generally.
pari passu
20.4 Negative pledge
Page 43
 
20.5 Disposals
Page 44
 
Page 45
 
20.6 Financial Indebtedness
20.7 Logistics Fund
20.8 Change of business and structure
Unless otherwise agreed by the Facility Agent, no PropCo in relation to the Shares of which the Finance Parties have a Security Interest may carry on any other business other than related to the acquisition, holding, leasing and where applicable, extension of the Properties and the Buildings or owning subsidiaries that carry on such business or, in any such case, matters ancillary to any of them.
20.9 Control and Change of Control
Page 46
 
20.10 Business Activity
Each Obligor will promptly enforce all rights remedies and guarantees of which it has the benefit under any applicable law, agreement or otherwise where the failure to do so is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect
20.11 Taxes
20.12 Financial covenants
Each Obligor shall, where relevant to it, comply with the requirements of Schedule 6 ().
Financial Covenants
20.13 Syndication
Page 47
 
20.14 Notification of a Fund Material Adverse Effect or an Obligor Material Adverse Effect
The AMB Agent shall notify the Facility Agent of either:
within two (2) Business Days of it becoming aware of the occurrence of any Fund Material Adverse Effect or the Obligor Material Adverse Effect (as the case may be).
21. PROPERTY COVENANTS
21.1 General
Each Obligor agrees to be bound by the covenants set out in this Clause 21 () that are stated to be applicable to it relating to itself only and shall not be responsible for the covenants hereunder made by any other member of the Logistics Fund Group.
Property Covenants
21.2 Insurances
Page 48
 
Page 49
 
21.3 Environmental matters
21.4 Repairs, compliance and developments
Page 50
 
22. TRIGGER EVENTS AND EVENTS OF DEFAULT
22.1 Trigger Events
The occurrence of any one of the events specified in Clauses 22.2 () to 22.16 () shall be a . To the extent that any such Trigger Event upon its occurrence has not been remedied or waived, then the provisions of Clause 8.3(a) () or 22.19 (), as applicable, shall apply upon the terms specified therein.
Non-Payment
Material Adverse Effect
Trigger Event
Mandatory Prepayment following the occurrence of certain Trigger Events
Events of Default
22.2 Non-payment
22.3 Breach of other obligations
An Obligor does not comply with any term of the Finance Documents applicable to it or any of its other obligations hereunder (other than any payment obligation hereunder), unless the non-compliance:
Page 51
 
22.4 Misrepresentation
A representation or warranty made or repeated by an Obligor in any Finance Document or in any document delivered by an Obligor under any Finance Document is, subject to any Permitted Disclosure, not true on the date given, unless the circumstances giving rise to the misrepresentation or breach of warranty:
22.5 Cross-default
22.6 Insolvency
Any of the following occurs in respect of an Obligor (other than in respect of shareholder loans):
(b) it admits its inability to pay its debts as they fall due;
Page 52
 
22.7 Insolvency proceedings
22.8 Enforcement of Security Interest
Any Security Interest is enforced over its assets that has a Material Adverse Effect and such enforcement is not set aside within thirty (30) days or compulsory enforcement is stayed within thirty (30) days.
Page 53
 
22.9 Creditors' process
Any of the Obligors enters into or proposes to enter into an out-of-court settlement or similar agreement for the benefit of its creditors in order to avoid insolvency proceedings or similar proceedings.
22.10 Cessation of business
An Obligor ceases, or threatens to cease, to carry on all or a material part of its business except as a result of any disposal allowed under this Agreement.
22.11 Enforceability and repudiation
22.12 Loan to Value
If the Loan to Value for a Test Period (as defined in Schedule 6 () for the Logistics Fund Group taken as a whole (based upon a calculation of all real estate properties which are owned by members of the Logistics Fund Group) is equal to or greater than 75 per cent. unless any such breach is cured to the reasonable satisfaction of the Facility Agent within ten (10) Business Days from receipt of a written demand from the Facility Agent pursuant to Schedule 6 ().
Financial Covenants)
Financial Covenants
22.13 Expropriation/Forfeiture
Page 54
 
22.14 Litigation
In respect of any Obligor, there shall occur any litigation, arbitration, administrative, regulatory or other proceedings or enquiry concerning or arising in consequence of any of the Acquisition Documents or the Finance Documents or the implementation of any matter or transaction provided for in the Acquisition Documents or the Finance Documents and which has a Material Adverse Effect unless the situation is capable of remedy and the relevant Obligor has remedied the situation so that no Material Adverse Effect exists within ten (10) Business Days from receipt of a written demand from the Facility Agent.
22.15 Properties and Buildings
There occurs a loss affecting the Properties and/or the Buildings which has a Material Adverse Effect unless the relevant Obligor has cured the situation so that no Material Adverse Effect exists within a period of ten (10) Business Days from a formal notice of the loss by such Obligor to the Facility Agent. For the purposes of this Clause only, a loss affecting the Properties and/or the Buildings shall not be considered to have a Material Adverse Effect if Credit Support (in form and content satisfactory to the Facility Agent) is provided.
22.16 Material Adverse Effect
In respect of an Obligor, the occurrence of any event not otherwise specified in this Clause 22 () which has a Material Adverse Effect, unless the relevant Obligor has cured (or procured the curing of) the situation so that no Material Adverse Effect exists within a period of ten (10) Business Days from receipt of a written notice from the Facility Agent.
Trigger Events and Events of Default
22.17 Subordination of Intra-Group Loans
The occurrence of a material breach by an Obligor which is party to the Deed of Subordination and which has an Obligor Material Adverse Effect, unless the relevant Obligor has cured (or procured the curing of) the situation so that no Material Adverse Effect exists within a period of ten (10) Business Days from receipt of a written notice from the Facility Agent.
22.18 Trigger Events and Mandatory Prepayment
If, in respect of an Obligor, there occurs any of the Trigger Events specified in:
Page 55
 
which event is not remedied or waived to the satisfaction of the Facility Agent within any applicable grace period specified in such Clause, the Facility Agent may for so long as that Trigger Event is outstanding (and shall if so instructed by the Majority Lenders) send the relevant Obligor a notice requiring that a mandatory prepayment be made in accordance with Clause 8.3(a) ().
Mandatory Prepayment following the occurrence of certain Trigger Events
22.19 Events of Default
Page 56
 
22.20 Notice of Event of Default
22.21 Clean-Up Date
Page 57
 
23. GUARANTEE
23.1 Guarantee
23.2 The Netherlands
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Clause 23.2 the obligation, liability, undertaking and other obligations of any Dutch Obligor expressed to be assumed in this Agreement, and/or in any other Finance Document shall be deemed not to be assumed by such Dutch Obligor to the extent that the same would constitute unlawful financial assistance within the meaning of section 2:98(c) or 2:207(c) of the Dutch Civil Code and the provisions of this Agreement and the other Finance Documents shall be construed accordingly.
Page 58
 
23.3 Belgium
23.4 France
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Clause 23 (), the obligation, liability, undertaking and other obligations of any French Obligor expressed to be assumed in this Agreement, and/or in any other Finance Document shall be deemed not to be assumed by such French Obligor to the extent that the same would constitute unlawful financial assistance within the meaning of section L.225-216 of the French Commercial Code and the provisions of this Agreement and the other Finance Documents shall be construed accordingly.
Guarantee
23.5 Italy
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Clause 23 (), the obligation, liability, undertaking and other obligations of any Italian Obligor expressed to be assumed in this Agreement, and/or in any other Finance Document shall be deemed not to be assumed by such Italian Obligor to the extent that the same would constitute unlawful financial assistance within the meaning of section 2358 of the Italian Civil Code and the provisions of this Agreement and the other Finance Documents shall be construed accordingly.
Guarantee
23.6 England and Wales
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Clause 23 (), the obligation, liability, undertaking and other obligations of any England and Wales Obligor expressed to be assumed in this Agreement, and/or in any other Finance Document shall be deemed not to be assumed by such England and Wales Obligor to the extent that the same would constitute unlawful financial assistance within the meaning of sections 151 to 158 (inclusive) of the Companies Act 1986 and the provisions of this Agreement and the other Finance Documents shall be construed accordingly.
Guarantee
Page 59
 
24. SUBSTITUTION
24.1 Substitution of Property
Page 60
 
Page 61
 
Accounts maintained by a Finance Party in connection with this Agreement are prima facie evidence of the matters to which they relate for the purpose of any litigation or arbitration proceedings.
Any certification or determination by a Finance Party of a rate or amount under the Finance Documents shall set out the basis of the calculation in reasonable detail and will be, in the absence of manifest error, conclusive evidence of the matters to which it relates.
Any interest or fee accruing under this Agreement accrues from day to day and is calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed and a year of three hundred and sixty (360) days or otherwise, depending on what the Facility Agent determines is market practice.
Each Borrower shall pay to the Facility Agent a utilisation fee computed at the rate and in the manner specified in the Fee Letter.
Each Borrower shall pay to the Facility Agent for each Lender a commitment fee computed at the rate and in the manner specified in the Fee Letter.
Page 62
 
Page 63
 
The Borrowers shall pay to each Agent the amount of all costs and expenses (including legal fees up to any agreed cap) reasonably incurred by it in connection with the negotiation, preparation, printing and entry into of the Finance Documents.
The Borrower shall pay to each Agent the amount of all costs and expenses (including legal fees) reasonably incurred by it in connection with:
Page 64
 
If a change in any currency of a country occurs (including where there is more than one currency or currency unit recognised at the same time as the lawful currency of a country), the Finance Documents will be amended to the extent the Facility Agent (acting reasonably and after consultation with the Borrower) determines is necessary to reflect the change.
The rights of each Finance Party under the Finance Documents:
Delay in the exercise or non-exercise of any right is not a waiver of that right.
Any accession of an Obligor shall comply with Clause 24.2 ().
Substitution of Obligor
Page 65
 
Page 66
 
Page 67
 
Page 68
 
If:
then the Obligor need only pay that Tax Payment or Increased Cost to the same extent that it would have been obliged to if no assignment, transfer or change had occurred.
Page 69
 
Page 70
 
Page 71
 
The Facility Agent:
Page 72
 
The Facility Agent may treat each Lender as a Lender, entitled to payments under this Agreement and acting through its Facility Office unless it has received not less than five Business Days prior notice from that Lender to the contrary in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Without affecting the responsibility of any Obligor for information supplied by it or on its behalf in connection with any Finance Document, each Lender confirms to the Facility Agent and the Arranger
Page 73
 
that it has been, and will continue to be, solely responsible for making its own independent appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with any Finance Document including:
If a Reference Institution (or, if a Reference Institution is not a Lender, the Lender of which it is an Affiliate) ceases to be a Lender, the Facility Agent shall (in consultation with the AMB Agent) appoint another Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender to replace that Reference Institution.
If any Finance Party owes an amount to the Facility Agent under the Finance Documents the Facility Agent may, after giving notice to that Finance Party, deduct an amount not exceeding that amount from any payment to that Finance Party which the Facility Agent would otherwise be obliged to make under the Finance Documents and apply the amount deducted in or towards satisfaction of the amount owed. For the purposes of the Finance Documents that Party shall be regarded as having received any amount so deducted.
Page 74
 
At any time after an Event of Default is continuing in relation to an Obligor, a Finance Party may set off any matured obligation owed to it by that Obligor under the Finance Documents (to the extent beneficially owned by that Finance Party) against any matured obligation owed by that Finance Party to that Obligor under the Finance Documents, regardless of the place of payment, booking branch or currency of either obligation. If the obligations are in different currencies, the Finance Party may convert either obligation at a market rate of exchange in its usual course of business for the purpose of the set-off. That Finance Party shall promptly notify the relevant Obligor of the effecting of any such set-off.
If a term of a Finance Document is or becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect under any jurisdiction, that will not affect:
Each Finance Document may be executed in any number of counterparts. This has the same effect as if the signatures on the counterparts were on a single copy of the Finance Document.
Page 75
 
Page 76
 
Page 77
 
This Agreement is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, English law.
Page 78
 
has been entered into on the date stated at the beginning of this Agreement.
THIS AGREEMENT
Page 79
 
Company
AMB Hausbruch Industrial Center 1 B.V.
AMB Bremerhaven Distribution Center 1 B.V.
AMB Altenwerder Distribution Center 1 Holding B.V.
Rheinsee Zweihundertfnfundvierzigste VV GmbH (shortly to be renamed AMB Hausbruch Industrial Center 6 GmbH)
AMB Hausbruch Industrial Center 1 B.V.
AMB Bremerhaven Distribution Center 1 B.V.
Rheinsee Zweihundertfnfundvierzigste VV GmbH (shortly to be renamed AMB Hausbruch Industrial Center 6 GmbH)
AMB Altenwerder Distribution Center 1 Holding B.V.
Page 80
 
Page 81
 
1. The Parties acknowledge that if a document or evidence satisfying a condition precedent has been provided previously to the relevant Party in satisfaction of:
such document or evidence need not be provided again unless the circumstances have changed such that the document or evidence satisfying a condition precedent is inaccurate or misleading.
Unless previously provided in accordance with Section 1 of this Schedule.
A. The Obligors
1. A copy of the constitutional documents of each Obligor (and, where available, a copy of an up to date extract from the commercial register for each Obligor) being in each case dated no more than fourteen (14) days before the first Initial Closing Date under this Agreement. It is acknowledged that no commercial register extract is available in respect of the Logistics Fund.
2. A specimen of the signature of each person authorised on behalf of each Obligor to enter into any Finance Document or to sign or send any document or notice in connection with any Finance Documents to which it is a party.
3. A copy of the supervisory board resolution (or equivalent) of each Obligor:
4. A certificate or certification of an authorised signatory of each Obligor certifying that each copy document referred to in:
Page 82
 
5. Evidence reasonably required by the Facility Agent for the purpose of any know your customer requirements.
6. Evidence that the agent of the Obligors (other than any incorporated in England and Wales) under the Finance Documents for service of process in England has accepted its appointment.
7. A Group Structure Chart.
8. In relation to each Belgian Obligor (and if applicable under Belgian law), a copy of a shareholders resolution approving the limitations set out in Clause 20.9 () and any other clause of any Finance Document pertaining to a change of control and evidence of filing of such a resolution with the clerk of a competent commercial court in accordance with clause 556 of the Belgian Company Code.
Control and Change of control
9. In relation to each Spanish Obligor, a copy of the relevant PE-1 or PE-3 forms, according to ruling 6/2000 dated 31 October of the Central Bank of Spain on foreign loans, credits and set-offs, filed with the Oficina de Balanza de Pagos of the Bank of Spain, with the financial transaction number (granted by such institution.
numero de operacin financiera or N.O.F.)
B. Documents to be delivered
15. A signed legal opinion of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, English legal advisers to the Facility Agent addressed to the Finance Parties.
16. A signed legal opinion of legal advisers to the Obligors addressed to the Finance Parties in relation to the capacity and authority of each Obligor to enter into the Finance Documents to which it is a party.
Page 83
 
Unless previously provided in accordance with Section 1 of this Schedule.
A. Additional Obligors
If a Loan is to be utilised, guaranteed or secured by an Additional Obligor who is not a Party to this Agreement in the capacity that it will be undertaking in regard to that Loan, each such Additional Obligor shall provide (unless previously provided in accordance with Section 1 of this Schedule):
1. A copy of the constitutional documents of each Additional Obligor (and, where available, a copy of an up to date extract from the commercial register for each Additional Obligor) being in each case dated no more than fourteen (14) days before the later of:
It is acknowledged that no commercial register extract is available in respect of the Logistics Fund.
2. A specimen of the signature of each person authorised on behalf of each Additional Obligor to enter into any Finance Document or to sign or send any document or notice in connection with any Finance Documents to which it is a party.
3. A copy of supervisory board resolution or equivalent (if any) of each Additional Obligor:
4. A certificate or certification of an authorised signatory of each Obligor certifying that each copy document referred to in:
5. Evidence reasonably required by the Facility Agent for the purpose of any know your customer requirements.
Page 84
 
6. Evidence that the agent of the Additional Obligors (other than any incorporated in England and Wales) under the Finance Documents for service of process in England has accepted its appointment.
7. In relation to each Belgian Obligor that is an Additional Obligor (and if applicable under Belgian law), a copy of a shareholders resolution approving Clause 20.9 () and any other clause of any Finance Document pertaining to a change of control and evidence of filing of such a resolution with the clerk of a competent commercial court in accordance with clause 556 of the Belgian Company Code.
Control and Change of Control
8. In relation to each Spanish Obligor:
9. In relation to a French Obligor, a completed and signed TEG Letter.
10. A legal opinion of the legal advisers to the Obligors addressed to the Finance Parties in relation to the capacity and authority of the relevant Additional Obligor to enter into the Finance Documents to which it is a party.
11. Sufficient evidence of the valid accession of the Additional Obligor to this Agreement and the Finance Documents (including, but not limited to, the Deed of Subordination where applicable) as a Borrower, PropCo or ShareCo as the case may be (including, but not limited to, where an Obligor is acceding to this Agreement and the Finance Documents in a different capacity from that which it otherwise holds pursuant to this Agreement).
B. Approval
12. Approval of the applicable Credit Committee of each Lender carried out on a desktop basis.
13. A certificate of the relevant Borrower confirming that, so far as it is aware, the Acquisition which will be financed by the relevant Loan is permitted by the constitutional documents of that Borrower. This certification may be incorporated into the certificate referred to in paragraph 4 of Part C () of this Schedule.
Loan
C. Property
In relation to each Property to be financed by a Loan:
14. A copy of the executed Acquisition Documents.
15. A copy of any other consents, permissions, waivers and approvals required under the Acquisition Document have been received by the notary.
Page 85
 
16. Evidence that any due notice under an Acquisition Document has been received by the purchaser under the Acquisition.
17. A copy of the complete rent-roll in relation to its rental income including details of tenants, lease expiry dates and rents.
18. A copy of cash-flow projections (in Argus extract or Excel form) that substantiate the purchase price of the Property.
19. Evidence that an environmental assessment report has been commissioned by a firm of appraisers acceptable to the Facility Agent (acting reasonably).
20. Evidence that a valuation and appraisal report has been commissioned by the vendor, in a form acceptable to the Facility Agent (acting reasonably).
21. A description of the Property to the satisfaction of the Facility Agent.
22. Evidence to the satisfaction of the Facility Agent that an acceptable property management contract will be in effect in relation to the Property (or that an Affiliate of AMB acceptable to the Facility Agent has been appointed to provide asset and property management services).
D. Insurance
23. Evidence that insurance cover is in force in respect of the relevant Property and that the necessary premia have been paid or will be paid in accordance with the usual procedures applicable to any group insurance policy under which the relevant Property is insured.
E. Documents to be delivered
24. Executed copies of any Reliance Letter (if any) is provided at the option of the AMB Agent.
25. A duly completed Request for the relevant Loan.
26. Duly executed copies of the Finance Documents.
27. A duly executed copy of any other document or contract required by the Facility Agent (acting reasonably).
Page 86
 
Dear Sirs,
1. We refer to the Agreement. This is a Request.
2. We wish to borrow an Loan on the following terms:
3. Our payment instructions are: [include account details etc]
4. We confirm that each condition precedent under the Agreement which shall be satisfied on the date of this Request is so satisfied.
5. We confirm that you may deduct from the Loan (although the amount of the Loan will remain the amount requested above) any commitment fee due and payable at the Utilisation Date.
6. This Request is irrevocable.
Yours faithfully,
Page 87
 
[BORROWER]
By:
Page 88
 
Page 89
 
Page 90
 
3.
For a Lender lending from a Facility Office in a Participating Member State
4.
Changes
Page 91
 
Page 92
 
Page 93
 
1. We refer to the Agreement. This is a Transfer Certificate.
2. In accordance with the terms of the Agreement:
3. This Transfer Certificate shall be effective as of the date hereof.
4. The administrative details of the [Existing Borrower/Existing Lender] for the purposes of the Agreement are set out in the Schedule.
5. This Transfer Certificate may be executed in any number of counterparts and this has the same effect as if the signatures on the counterpart were on a single copy of the Transfer Certificate.
6. The [Existing Borrower/Existing Lender] expressly acknowledges the limitations on the [Existing Borrower/Existing Lender]'s obligations in respect of this Transfer Certificate contained in the Agreement.
7. For the purposes of Article 1278 of the French Civil Code and Article 1271 of the Belgian Civil Code it is expressly agreed that the Finance Documents shall be preserved for the benefit of the New Lender in relation to the rights and obligations assumed by it under this Transfer Certificate.
et seq.
et seq.
8. This Transfer Certificate is governed by English law.
Page 94
 
The Transfer Date is confirmed by the Facility Agent as [].
 - 
as Facility Agent, for and on behalf of each of the parties to the Agreement (other than the [Existing Borrower/Existing Lender] and the [Existing Borrower/Existing Lender])
[ING],
By:
Note: It is the responsibility of each individual New Lender or New Borrower (as the case may be) to ascertain whether any other document or formality is required to perfect the transfer contemplated by this Transfer Certificate including any interest in security.
Page 95
 
We refer to the Agreement. This is a Transfer Certificate.
1. The [Existing Borrower/ Existing PropCo/ Existing ShareCo/ Existing Lender] transfers by novation to the [New Borrower/ New PropCo/ New ShareCo/ New Lender] the [Existing Borrower/ Existing PropCo/ Existing ShareCo/ Existing Lender]'s all of its rights and obligations referred to in the Schedule below in regards to its obligations in accordance with the Facility and in accordance with the terms of the Agreement.
2. The proposed Transfer Date is [].
 - 
3. The administrative details of the [New Borrower/ New PropCo/ New ShareCo/ New Lender] for the purposes of the Agreement are set out in the Schedule.
4. The New Lender expressly acknowledges the limitations on the [Existing Borrower/ Existing PropCo/ Existing ShareCo/ Existing Lender]'s obligations in respect of this Transfer Certificate contained in the Agreement.
5. This Transfer Certificate may be executed in any number of counterparts and this has the same effect as if the signatures on the counterpart were on a single copy of the Transfer Certificate.
6. For the purposes of Article 1278 of the French Civil Code and Article 1271 of the Belgian Civil Code it is expressly agreed that the Finance Documents shall be preserved for the benefit of the New Lender in relation to the rights and obligations assumed by it under this Transfer Certificate.
et seq.
et seq.
7. This Transfer Certificate is governed by English law.
Note: It is the responsibility of each individual [New Borrower/ New PropCo/ New ShareCo/ New Lender] to ascertain whether any other document or formality is required to perfect the transfer contemplated by this Transfer Certificate including any interest in security.
Page 96
 
[THE EXISTING BORROWER/ EXISTING PROPCO/ EXISTING SHARECO/ THE EXISTING LENDER]
By:
[THE NEW BORROWER/ THE NEW PROPCO/ THE NEW SHARECO/ THE NEW LENDER]
By:
The Transfer Date is confirmed by the Facility Agent as [ ].
[ING],
By:
Page 97
 
Page 98
 
1.
DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this Schedule 6 (), and to the extent not defined in Clause 1 () of this Agreement, the following additional definitions shall apply:
Financial Covenants
Interpretation
means:
Accounting Date
except, in each such case, as adjusted (if applicable and at the option of the AMB Agent) to make sure that those dates fall on the same day of the week or otherwise with the consent of the Facility Agent and the AMB Agent.
means:
Accounting Period
means the accounting principles, standards, conventions and practices, from time to time and at any time, generally accepted as part of the accounting standard applicable in Luxembourg (or such other generally accepted accounting principles that may be used by the Logistics Fund and which are acceptable to the Facility Agent acting reasonably) in effect from time to time and commonly and consistently applied in practice.
Accounting Principles
means an act or arrangement by a member of the Parent Group or the Logistics Fund Group that would cure any breach of any financial covenant in accordance with this Schedule including, but not limited to:
Cure Act
Page 99
 
means, with respect to a person, at the relevant time of computation thereof, the sum of all of the following (without duplication):
Financial Indebtedness
Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing, Financial Indebtedness shall not include reimbursement obligations in respect of a standby letter of credit to the extent such obligations are cash collateralised or in respect of any Parent Group Shareholder Loan or Intra-Group Loans.
means each annual accounting period ending on 31 December in each year.
Financial Year
means, for any Historic Test Period, the aggregate of all interest charges, principal repayments, guarantee payments termination sums and other amounts which have fallen due
Fund Historic Debt Service
Page 100
 
to be paid by any Logistics Fund Group member in respect of any Financial Indebtedness due to third parties during such Historic Test Period but excluding lump sum amounts due at maturity.
means, in relation to a relevant Historic Test Period, the ratio of:
Fund Historic Debt Service Cover Ratio
means, in respect of the Logistics Fund Group, the aggregate principal amount of all Financial Indebtedness incurred by members of the Logistics Fund Group to third parties expressed as a percentage to the aggregate value of all Fund Properties (determined in a manner consistent with the operating documents of the Logistics Fund and acceptable to the Facility Agent (acting reasonably)) taken together with the value of all other assets (including, without limitation, cash) of the Logistics Fund Group at the relevant time determined in accordance with Accounting Principles and in a manner consistent with the operating documents of the Logistics Fund.
Fund Loan to Value
means, for any Projected Test Period, the aggregate of all interest charges, principal repayments, guarantee payments, termination sums and other amounts which are estimated to fall due to be paid by any Fund Logistics Group member in respect of any Financial Indebtedness due to third parties during such Projected Test Period but excluding lump sum amounts due at maturity.
Fund Projected Debt Service
means, in relation to a Projected Test Period, a calculation of the projected Logistics Fund debt service cover ratio estimated by the AMB Agent and approved by the Facility Agent in its reasonable discretion which will apply to such Projected Test Period, using the ratio of:
Fund Projected Debt Service Cover Ratio
means, at any relevant time, all property and buildings (including, without limitation, the Properties) then owned by any member of the Logistics Fund Group, howsoever financed.
Fund Properties
Page 101
 
means for the Fund Historic Debt Service Cover Ratio, each Accounting Period of 12 months beginning on the day after the last day of the immediately preceding Accounting Period and ending on the last day of the Accounting Period in respect of which the relevant calculation falls to be made. The first such Historic Test Period shall be for the period commencing on 1 January 2008 and ending on 31 December 2008.
Historic Test Period
means, in relation to a Loan and with respect to a Projected Test Period, a calculation of the projected interest cover ratio estimated by the AMB Agent and approved by the Facility Agent in its reasonable discretion which will apply to such Projected Test Period, using the ratio of:
Loan Interest Cover Ratio
means, for any Projected Test Period and in respect of a Loan, the aggregate of all interest charges which will fall due to be paid by the relevant Borrower in respect of that Loan during such Projected Test Period.
Loan Projected Interest Charges
means, in respect of the Logistics Fund Group, in each case calculated on a consolidated basis at the end of the Logistics Fund Group's Financial Year, the sum of:
Net Worth
means any loan made by any member of the Parent Group that is not a member of the Logistics Fund Group and shown as a shareholder loan in the balance sheet of the Logistics Fund Group delivered in respect of the relevant Financial Year.
Parent Group Shareholder Loan
means:
Projected Test Period
Page 102
 
means:
Testing Date
2.
BASIS OF CALCULATIONS
2.1 No item shall be deducted or credited more than once in any calculation.
All the terms defined in paragraph 1 of this Schedule are to be determined on a consolidated basis and in accordance with the Accounting Principles and terminology applied by the Borrowers in accordance with this Schedule, consistently applied.
2.2
Page 103
 
The financial covenant(s) set out in paragraphs 3.1 to 3.4 shall be tested by reference to the applicable set of financial statements delivered pursuant to Clause 19.2 () upon delivery of the relevant Compliance Certificate under Clause 19.7 ().
2.3
Financial Statements
Compliance Certificate
2.4 Save as otherwise provided in this Schedule, to the extent that the relevant Compliance Certificate when delivered indicates that as at any Testing Date any calculation is breached, the Borrower(s) shall be entitled to calculate or recalculate such covenant ten (10) Business Days after the date of the relevant Compliance Certificate with the benefit of any Cure Act, provided that:
and so that if such Cure Act is made or the Facility Agent is satisfied (acting reasonably) that it will be made no breach of any calculation shall arise or be deemed to have arisen.
2.5 The AMB Agent shall on behalf of the Borrowers shall provide the Facility Agent with the Compliance Certificate pursuant to Clause 24.7 () within the date specified therein together with all necessary information and in reasonable detail as may be reasonably requested by the Facility Agent to enable it to confirm compliance with the financial covenants set out in this Schedule 6 () as at the relevant Test Date.
Compliance Certificate
Financial Covenants
 
3.
COVENANTS
3.1 Debt Service Cover Ratio
Page 104
 
3.2 Interest Cover Ratio
3.3 Fund Loan to Value
3.4 Minimum Net Worth
Page 105
 
Page 106
 
Dear Sirs
1. We refer to the Agreement. Terms defined in the Agreement shall have the same meaning when used in this certificate. This is a Compliance Certificate.
2. We confirm that, as at the Accounting Date 31 December []:
insert year
 
Page 107
 
Yours faithfully
AMB Agent
By:
Page 108
 
Dear Sirs
1. We refer to the Agreement. Terms defined in the Agreement shall have the same meaning when used in this certificate. This is a Compliance Certificate.
2. We confirm that, as at the Accounting Date 30 June []:
insert year
Yours faithfully
AMB Agent
By:
 
Page 109
 
Date:   [*] 2008
Dear Sirs,
We refer to the Agreement. Terms defined in the Agreement shall bear the same meaning in this letter unless otherwise defined in this letter.
Page 110
 
This letter is designated a Finance Document.
We should be grateful if you would confirm your acceptance of the terms of this letter by signing and returning to us the enclosed copy.
Yours faithfully,
Page 111
 
is dated [].
THIS DEED OF SUBORDINATION
 - 
Between
It is intended that this document takes effect as a deed notwithstanding the fact that a party may only execute this document under hand.
1.
INTERPRETATION
1.1
Definitions
In this Deed:
means the facility agreement dated on or about the date of this Deed between (among others) the Obligors and certain Affiliates of the Obligors and the Facility Agent.
Facility Agreement
means a Finance Document as defined in the Facility Agreement.
Finance Document
means all loans provided by a Subordinated Creditor to a Borrower.
Intra-Group Loans
means any present or future liability (actual or contingent) whether or not matured or liquidated, together with:
Liability
 
Page 112
 
is an Obligor that accedes to this Deed in accordance with Clause 16 () of this Deed.
New Obligor
Changes to the Parties
means a party to this Deed.
Party
means all payments (including interest, principal and fees), set-offs, purchases or distributions prior to an Enforcement Event which is continuing in relation to the relevant Obligor.
Permitted Payment
means any Lender and the Facility Agent.
Senior Creditor
means all Liabilities payable or owing by any Obligor to a Senior Creditor under or in connection with the Loans which have been provided to the Obligor to whom a Subordinated Creditor has made an Intra-Group Loan.
Senior Debt
means each Obligor that is a creditor under a Subordinated Finance Document.
Subordinated Creditor
means all Liabilities payable or owing by an Obligor to a Subordinated Creditor under or in connection with any Subordinated Finance Document.
Subordinated Debt
means:
Subordinated Finance Document
means the period beginning on the date of this Deed and ending on the date on which the relevant Senior Debt has been unconditionally and irrevocably paid and discharged in full by the relevant Obligor.
Subordination Period
1.2
Construction
Page 113
 
2.
UNDERTAKINGS
2.1
Undertakings of the Obligors
2.2
Undertakings of Subordinated Creditor
Page 114
 
3.
AMENDMENTS TO THE SUBORDINATED FINANCE DOCUMENTS
After the occurrence of an Enforcement Event which is continuing in relation to the Obligor, no Obligor nor a Subordinated Creditor may amend, waive or release any term of the Subordinated Finance Documents, except for an amendment which:
4.
TURNOVER OF NON-PERMITTED RECOVERIES
4.1
Non-permitted payment
If:
that Subordinated Creditor shall hold the amount received by it (up to a maximum of an amount equal to the Senior Debt) on trust or hold for the account of (as the case may be) for the Senior Creditors and immediately pay that amount (up to that maximum) to the Facility Agent for application against the relevant Senior Debt.
5.
SUBORDINATION ON INSOLVENCY
5.1
Insolvency
If any of the events set out in Clause 22.6 () or Clause 22.7 () of the Facility Agreement occur in respect of an Obligor unless in the case of a presentation of a petition for winding-up presented by a creditor, it is being contested in good
Insolvency
Insolvency Proceedings
Page 115
 
faith and with due diligence and is discharged or struck out within fourteen (14) days, the Subordinated Debt of that Obligor will be subordinate in right of payment to the Senior Debt.
5.2
Procedure
6.
ENFORCEMENT BY SUBORDINATED CREDITORS
During the Subordination Period and after the occurrence of an Enforcement Event that is continuing in relation to the relevant Obligor, no Subordinated Creditor may:
Page 116
 
7.
CONSENTS
8.
REPRESENTATIONS
8.1
Representations
The representations set out in this Clause are made by each Subordinated Creditor to each Senior Creditor.
9.
STATUS
It is duly incorporated or established and validly existing under the laws of the country of its incorporation or establishment.
9.1
Powers and authorities
It has the power to enter into and perform, and has taken all necessary action to authorise the entry into and performance of, this Deed and the transactions contemplated by this Deed.
9.2
Legal validity
Subject to the Legal Reservations, this Deed constitutes its legally valid, binding and enforceable obligation.
Page 117
 
9.3
Non-conflict
The entry into and performance by it of, and the transactions contemplated by, this Deed do not and will not conflict with:
9.4
Authorisations
As at the date of this Deed, all material authorisations required by it in connection with the entry into, performance, validity and enforceability of, and the transactions contemplated by, this Deed, and without which there is reasonably likely to be a Material Adverse Effect, have been obtained or effected (as appropriate) and are in full force and effect or, in each case, will be when required.
9.5
Subordinated Debt
The representations set out in this Clause are made by each Subordinated Creditor on the date of this Deed.
10.
PROTECTION OF SUBORDINATION
10.1
Continuing subordination
The subordination provisions in this Deed constitute a continuing subordination and will benefit the ultimate balance of all of the relevant Senior Debt, regardless of any intermediate payment or discharge in whole or in part.
10.2
Waiver of defences
The subordination in this Deed and the obligations of the Subordinated Creditors under this Deed will not be affected by any act, omission, matter or thing which, but for this provision, would reduce, release or prejudice the subordination or any of those obligations. This includes:
Page 118
 
10.3
Immediate recourse
Each Subordinated Creditor waives any right they may have of first requiring any Senior Creditor (or any trustee or other agent on its behalf) to proceed against or enforce any other rights or security or claim payment from any person before claiming the benefit of this Deed.
10.4
Appropriations
Until the relevant Senior Debt has been irrevocably paid in full, the Facility Agent may:
10.5
Non-competition
Unless:
Page 119
 
11.
INFORMATION BY SUBORDINATED CREDITORS
11.1
Defaults
The Subordinated Creditors shall, notify the Facility Agent of the occurrence of any acceleration under the Subordinated Finance Documents promptly upon becoming aware of it.
11.2
Amount of Subordinated Debt
Each Subordinated Creditor shall on request by the Facility Agent (acting reasonably) notify it of details of the amount of the Subordinated Debt.
12.
SUBROGATION BY SUBORDINATED CREDITORS
If any of the relevant Senior Debt is wholly or partially paid out of any proceeds received in respect of or on account of the Subordinated Debt, the Subordinated Creditors will to that extent be subrogated to the relevant Senior Debt so paid (and all securities and guarantees for that Senior Debt) but not before all the relevant Senior Debt is paid in full.
13.
PRESERVATION OF SUBORDINATED DEBT
Notwithstanding any term of this Deed postponing, subordinating or preventing the payment of any of the Subordinated Debt, the Subordinated Debt concerned will, solely as between the Obligors and the Subordinated Creditors, remain owing or due and payable in accordance with the terms of the Subordinated Finance Documents, and interest and default interest will accrue on missed payments accordingly.
14.
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE FACILITY AGENT
14.1
Rights and responsibility of the Facility Agent
The Facility Agent will not be liable to the Subordinated Creditors for the manner of exercise of or for any non-exercise of or for any non-exercise of its powers under this Deed or failure to collect or preserve the Subordinated Debt.
14.2
Non-derogation
Nothing contained in this Deed in any manner affects the rights or remedies of any Senior Creditor under the Finance Documents.
15.
TREATMENT OF DISTRIBUTION
15.1
Realisation
If any Senior Creditor receives any distribution otherwise than in cash in respect of the Subordinated Debt from an Obligor or from any other source, the relevant Senior Debt will not be deemed reduced by the distribution until and except to the extent that the realisation proceeds are applied towards that Senior Debt.
Page 120
 
15.2
Transfer of distributions
After the occurrence of an Enforcement Event in relation to the relevant Obligor, each of the relevant Subordinated Creditors and that Obligor shall do anything which the Facility Agent may reasonably require as being necessary or desirable to transfer to the Facility Agent all payments and distributions which shall be made to or held in trust for the Senior Creditors, including endorsements and execution of formal transfers.
15.3
Currencies
16.
CHANGES TO THE PARTIES
16.1
The Obligors and the Subordinated Creditors
16.2
The Senior Creditors
Page 121
 
17.
MISCELLANEOUS
17.1
Perpetuity
The perpetuity period for the trusts in this Deed is 80 years.
Each of the Subordinated Creditors and the Obligors acknowledges that:
17.3
Power of attorney
By way of security for the obligations of the Subordinated Creditors under this Deed, each of the Subordinated Creditors and the Obligors irrevocably appoints the Facility Agent as its attorney to do anything after and during the continuance of an Enforcement Event in relation to the relevant Obligor which the Subordinated Creditors or the Obligors is required to do by this Deed but has failed to do. The Facility Agent may delegate this power.
17.4
Set-off
17.5
Default interest
Page 122
 
17.6
Certificates and determinations
Any certification or determination by a Security Party of a rate or amount under this Deed will be, in the absence of manifest error, conclusive evidence of the matters to which it relates.
18.
NOTICES
18.1
In writing
18.2
Contact details
Page 123
 
With a cc to the attention of: General Counsel
With a cc to the attention of: General Counsel
Page 124
 
18.3
Effectiveness
19.
LANGUAGE
Any notice given in connection with this Deed shall be in English.
20.
SEVERABILITY
21.
WAIVERS AND REMEDIES CUMULATIVE
(a) The rights of each Senior Creditor under this Deed:
Page 125
 
22.
COUNTERPARTS
This Deed may be executed in any number of counterparts. This has the same effect as if the signatures on the counterparts were on a single copy of this Deed.
23.
GOVERNING LAW
This Deed is governed by English law.
24.
ENFORCEMENT
24.1
Jurisdiction
24.2
Service of process
Page 126
 
Page 127
 
Page 128
 
This Deed has been entered into as a deed on the date stated at the beginning of this Deed.
Obligors
[                                        ]
Page 129
 
Subordinated Creditors
[                                        ]
Page 130
 
ING Real Estate Finance NV as a Lender and as Facility Agent
ING Real Estate Finance S.E., E.F.C., S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal) as a Lender
Page 131
 
ING Real Estate Finance S.E., E.F.C., S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal) (Italian branch) as a Lender
ING Real Estate Finance (U.K.) B.V. as a Lender
Page 132
 
ING Real Estate Finance (France) SAS. as a Lender
Page 133
 
[Address of AMB Agent]
By fax +1
          
Dear Sirs,
We refer to the financing requests under the 142,000,000 AMB LP Guaranteed Facility Agreement dated 30 May 2008, as agreed and contemplated in accordance with the executed 142,000,000 AMB LP Guaranteed Facility Agreement dated 30 May 2008.
Subject to and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 142,000,000 AMB LP Guaranteed Facility Agreement dated 30 May 2008 we are pleased to offer the following:
Page 134
 
Under the 142,000,000 AMB LP Guaranteed Facility Agreement dated 30 May 2008 remains an available Facility of EUR [] as of date of drawdown of the Grand Total New amount.
 - 
We appreciate if you could indicate your acceptance of the above by countersigning and returning the attached copy of this letter.
Yours sincerely,
ING Real Estate Finance NV
We hereby agree and acknowledge and agree to this letter
AMB Fund Management S.A.R.L. Acting in its capacity as AMB Agent
Page 135
 
United Kingdom
Page 136
 
, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective duly authorised representatives as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
Original Borrower
Page 137
 
The Logistics Fund and AMB Agent
as the
AMB FUND MANAGEMENT S..R.L. acting on its own name but on behalf of AMB Europe Fund I FCP-FIS
Logistics Fund, Carve-out Indemnifier
and
AMB Agent
The Loan Guarantor
as the
AMB PROPERTY L.P.
Loan Guarantor
Page 138
 
The Original Lenders and Facility Agent
Page 139
 
ING Real Estate Finance S.E., E.F.C., S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal) (Italian branch) as an
Original Lender
ING Real Estate Finance (U.K.) B.V. as an
Original Lender
Page 140
 
Page 141

Exhibit 10.2
EXECUTION VERSION
      (this "") is made as of 30th May, 2008, by (""), a Delaware limited partnership, having an address at Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111 (the ""), for the benefit of the Facility Agent and the Lenders that are from time to time parties to that certain agreement, dated as of 30th May, 2008, among AMB Fund Management S. r.l. acting on behalf of AMB Europe Fund I FCP-FIS as the Logistics Fund and AMB Agent, AMB LP as the Loan Guarantor, the financial institutions listed therein as Original Lenders and ING Real Estate Finance N.V. as the Facility Agent (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the AMB LP Guaranteed Facility Agreement.
This Loan Guarantee
Guarantee
AMB Property, L.P.
AMB LP
Guarantor
AMB LP Guaranteed Facility Agreement
     , the Lenders have agreed to make available to the Borrowers the Facility under the AMB LP Guaranteed Facility Agreement;
Whereas
     , the Guarantor is or will be the direct or indirect owner of equity interests of the Borrowers;
Whereas
     , as a condition to the availability of the Facility, the Facility Agent and the Lenders have required that the Guarantor execute and deliver this Guarantee; and
Whereas
     , in consideration of the premises and the benefits to be derived from the Lenders making the Facility available to the Borrowers, and in order to induce the Facility Agent and the Lenders to enter into the AMB LP Guaranteed Facility Agreement and the other Finance Documents, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Guarantor hereby agrees as follows:
Now Therefore
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
EXECUTION VERSION
Each such notice, request or other communication shall be effective (i) if given by telex or facsimile transmission, when such telex or facsimile is transmitted to the telex number or facsimile number specified in this Section 15 and the appropriate answerback or facsimile confirmation is received, (ii) if given by certified registered mail, return receipt requested, with first class postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid, upon receipt or refusal to accept delivery, or (iii) if given by an internationally (if notices are to be sent to a different country) or nationally recognized overnight carrier, 48 hours after such communication is deposited with such carrier (72 hours in the case notices are to be sent to a different country) with postage prepaid delivery, or (iv) if given by any other means, when delivered at the address specified in this Section 15.
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
EXECUTION VERSION
     , the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Guarantee as of the date and year first above written.
In Witness Whereof
:
Accepted
, as Facility Agent
ING Real Estate Finance N.V.

Exhibit 10.3
Counter-Indemnity in respect of the loan guarantee to be entered into between (1) the Guarantor and (2) ING Real Estate Finance NV (the "Facility Agent") and the Lenders from time to time under the Facility Agreement as defined below (the "Beneficiaries") (the "Loan Guarantee")
WHEREAS:
 
IT IS AGREED THAT:
 
This Counter-Indemnity has been entered into on the date set out at the beginning of the agreement.
 
The Guarantor:
AMB Property L.P.


