FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20091021164849.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
On October 15, 2009, AMB Property, L.P., the operating partnership and a subsidiary of its parent company, AMB Property Corporation, entered into a $345 million unsecured term loan credit agreement, including a loan denominated in Euros in the amount of 47,780,000 made to its affiliate, AMB European Investments LLC and a loan denominated in Yen in the amount of 6,283,900,000 made to its affiliate, AMB Japan Finance, Y.K. This term loan credit agreement replaced the $325 million term loan credit agreement dated March 27, 2008. The parent company is the guarantor of the operating partnership's obligations under the credit agreement and the operating partnership is the guarantor of the obligations of AMB European Investments LLC and AMB Japan Finance, Y.K., under the credit agreement. The term loan facility is with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as administrative agent for Euros, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as administrative agent for Yen and syndication agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, Calyon Credit Agricole CIB, New York Branch, U.S. Bank National Association, and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as documentation agents, AMB European Investments LLC and AMB Japan Finance, Y.K., as the initial qualified borrowers, and a syndicate of banks.
The term loan facility matures on October 15, 2012. At any time prior to October 15, 2011 and subject to specified conditions, the operating partnership has the ability to increase available borrowings up to $425 million, including additional Euro borrowings and Yen borrowings, at the borrowers' option, by adding additional banks to the facility or obtaining the agreement of existing banks to increase their commitments. The rate on the borrowings is currently LIBOR plus 275 basis points, in the case of Dollar borrowings and Euro borrowings, and TIBOR plus 275 basis points, in the case of Yen borrowings. The margin is determined at any given time based on the pricing grid in the term loan facility according to the current credit rating of the operating partnership's long-term debt. The credit agreement contains affirmative covenants, including financial reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios and other financial covenants, and negative covenants, including limitations on mergers or consolidations. The financial covenants include, among others, the ratios of total debt to total asset value, secured debt to total asset value and unencumbered net operating cash flow to unsecured debt service and a minimum consolidated tangible net worth. In addition, the term loan facility includes events (including, without limitation, a non-payment under the loan, a breach of warranties and representations in any material respect, non-compliance with covenants by the operating partnership, cross-defaults to recourse indebtedness, a change in the majority of the parent company's board of directors during any 12-month period or the acquisition by a person or group of 30% or more of the parent company's common stock), each of which, if not cured within the time period, if any, specified in the term loan facility would constitute an event of default. Upon the occurrence and continuance of such events of default, the lenders may elect to accelerate the outstanding principal and accrued and unpaid interest under the term loan facility. Further, outstanding principal and accrued
Table of Contents
and unpaid interest thereon automatically accelerate upon the occurrence of certain other events of default, including without limitation and as described more fully in the term loan facility, the commencement of any voluntary or involuntary proceeding seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief of the debts of the parent company or the operating partnership under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law, or if the parent company or the operating partnership seeks at any time to repudiate its obligations under the term loan facility or any related document.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is administrative agent, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited is administrative agent for alternate currencies, and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. is joint lead arranger and joint bookrunner under our third amended and restated revolving credit agreement, dated as of June 1, 2006. Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation is administrative agent and sole lead arranger and bookmanager under our amended and restated revolving credit agreement, dated as of June 23, 2006, as amended on October 23, 2007. Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, New York Branch, is administrative agent and sole lead arranger and bookmanager and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Shanghai Branch, is RMB settlement agent under our RMB revolving credit agreement, dated October 23, 2007. Calyon New York Branch is a co-documentation agent under our fifth amended and restated revolving credit agreement, dated as of July 16, 2007. U.S. Bank National Association is the trustee under our indenture dated as of June 30, 1998, as supplemented. Additionally, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. has acted as an underwriter in certain of our offerings.
A copy of the credit agreement, the guaranty and the qualified borrower guaranty are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3, respectively, and are incorporated into this current report by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 10.1
     
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A  Form of Note EXHIBIT A-1  Form of Qualified Borrower Note EXHIBIT A-2  Form of Qualified Borrower Undertaking EXHIBIT B  Form of Transfer Supplement EXHIBIT C  Form of Qualified Joinder Agreement EXHIBIT D  Form of Qualified Borrower Guaranty
SCHEDULE 1.1 SCHEDULE 4.4 (b) SCHEDULE 4.6 SCHEDULE 5.11(c)(1) SCHEDULE 5.11(c)(2)
 
          THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT (this "") dated as of October 15, 2009 among AMB PROPERTY, L.P. (the ""), the Initial Qualified Borrowers, the BANKS listed on the signature pages hereof, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent, J.P. MORGAN EUROPE LIMITED, as Administrative Agent for Euros, SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORPORATION, as Administrative Agent for Yen , SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORPORATION, as Syndication Agent, J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC., as Lead Arranger and Bookrunner, and CALYON CREDIT AGRICOLE CIB, NEW YORK BRANCH, U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION and HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Documentation Agents.
Agreement
Borrower
          NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
          SECTION 1.1. . The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:
Definitions
          "Adjusted EBITDA" means EBITDA for such period an amount equal to appropriate reserves for replacements of Ten Cents ($0.10) (or in the case of any Real Property Asset owned by an Investment Affiliate or by a Consolidated Subsidiary, Borrower's Share of Ten Cents ($0.10)) per square foot per annum for each Real Property Asset (provided that, as to any Real Property Asset acquired during such period such Ten Cents ($0.10) per square foot adjustment shall be pro-rated for the period of ownership). Adjusted EBITDA includes rental income actually earned and shall exclude the application of FAS 141, and non-cash expenses related to employee and trustee stock and stock options.
minus
          "Adjusted Interbank Offered Rate" as applicable to any Interest Period means a rate per annum equal to the quotient obtained (rounded upward, if necessary, to the next higher 1/100 of 1%) by dividing (i) the Interbank Offered Rate applicable during such Interest Period by (ii) 1.00 minus the Euro-Dollar Reserve Percentage.
          "Administrative Agent" shall mean (i) with respect to Notices of Borrowing and the administration of Loans denominated in Euros, and interest and fee payments with respect to Loans denominated in Euros, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited; (ii) with respect to Notices of Borrowing and the administration of Loans denominated in Yen, and interest and fee payments with respect to Loans denominated in Yen, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, and (iii) for all other purposes under this Agreement, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in each case in its respective capacity as Administrative Agent hereunder, and its respective permitted successors in such capacity in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
 
          "Administrative Questionnaire" means with respect to each Bank, an administrative questionnaire in the form prepared by the Administrative Agent and submitted to the Administrative Agent (with a copy to the Borrower) duly completed by such Bank.
          "Affiliate", as applied to any Person, means any other Person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, that Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as applied to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to vote ten percent (10.0%) or more of the equity Securities having voting power for the election of directors of such Person or otherwise to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of that Person, whether through the ownership of voting equity Securities or by contract or otherwise.
          "Agents" shall mean the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agent, collectively.
          "Agreement" shall mean this Credit Agreement as the same may from time to time hereafter be modified, supplemented or amended.
          "Alternate Currency" means the lawful currency of either of (i) the European Economic Union (Euros) or (ii) Japan (Yen).
          "Applicable Interest Rate" means (i) with respect to any Fixed Rate Indebtedness, the fixed interest rate applicable to such Fixed Rate Indebtedness at the time in question, and (ii) with respect to any Floating Rate Indebtedness, either (x) the rate at which the interest rate applicable to such Floating Rate Indebtedness is actually capped (or fixed pursuant to an interest rate hedging device), at the time of calculation, if Borrower has entered into an interest rate cap agreement or other interest rate hedging device with respect thereto or (y) if Borrower has not entered into an interest rate cap agreement or other interest rate hedging device with respect to such Floating Rate Indebtedness, the greater of (A) the rate at which the interest rate applicable to such Floating Rate Indebtedness could be fixed for the remaining term of such Floating Rate Indebtedness, at the time of calculation, by Borrower's entering into any unsecured interest rate hedging device either not requiring an upfront payment or if requiring an upfront payment, such upfront payment shall be amortized over the term of such device and included in the calculation of the interest rate (or, if such rate is incapable of being fixed by entering into an unsecured interest rate hedging device at the time of calculation, a fixed rate equivalent reasonably determined by Administrative Agent) or (B) the floating rate applicable to such Floating Rate Indebtedness at the time in question.
          "Applicable Lending Office" means with respect to any Bank, (i) in the case of its Base Rate Loans, its Domestic Lending Office, and (ii) in the case of its Euro-Dollar Loans, its Euro-Dollar Lending Office.
          "Applicable Margin" means with respect to each Loan, the respective percentages per annum determined, at any time, based on the range into which Borrower's Credit Rating then falls, in accordance with the table set forth below. Any change in Borrower's Credit Rating causing it to move to a different range on the table shall effect an immediate change in the
 
Applicable Margin. Borrower shall have not less than two (2) Credit Ratings at all times. In the event that Borrower receives only two (2) Credit Ratings (one of which must be from S&P or Moody's), and such Credit Ratings are not equivalent, the Applicable Margin shall be determined by the higher of such two (2) Credit Ratings. In the event that Borrower receives more than two (2) Credit Ratings, and such Credit Ratings are not all equivalent, the Applicable Margin shall be determined by the highest Credit Rating, provided that said highest rating shall be from S&P or Moody's; provided, further, that if the highest rating is not from S&P or Moody's, then the Applicable Margin shall be determined by the highest Credit Rating from either S&P or Moody's.
          "Assignee" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.6(c).
          "Balance Sheet Indebtedness" means with respect to any Person and assuming such Person is required to prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP, without duplication, the Indebtedness of such Person which would be required to be included on the liabilities side of the balance sheet of such Person in accordance with GAAP excluding, in the case of Borrower or General Partner, the Balance Sheet Indebtedness of any Consolidated Subsidiary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Balance Sheet Indebtedness shall include current liabilities and all guarantees of Indebtedness of any Person.
          "Balloon Payments" shall mean with respect to any loan constituting Balance Sheet Indebtedness, any required principal payment of such loan which is either (i) payable at the maturity of such Indebtedness or (ii) in an amount which exceeds fifteen percent (15%) of the original principal amount of such loan; provided, however, that the final payment of a fully amortizing loan shall not constitute a Balloon Payment.
          "Bank" means each entity (other than Borrower) listed on the signature pages hereof, each Assignee which becomes a Bank pursuant to Section 9.6(c), and their respective successors. For purposes of this Agreement, J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. shall not constitute a "Bank."
          "Bankruptcy Code" shall mean Title 11 of the United States Code, entitled "Bankruptcy", as amended from time to time, and any successor statute or statutes.
 
          "Base Rate" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the highest of (i) the Prime Rate for such day, (ii) the sum of 0.50% plus the Federal Funds Rate for such day, and (iii) one (1) month Interbank Offered Rate, plus one percent (1%). Each change in the Base Rate shall become effective automatically as of the opening of business on the date of such change in the Base Rate, without prior written notice to Borrower or Banks.
          "Base Rate Loan" means a Loan to be made by a Bank as a Base Rate Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
          "Benefit Arrangement" means at any time an employee benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA which is not a Plan or a Multiemployer Plan and which is maintained or otherwise contributed to by any member of the ERISA Group.
          "Borrower" means AMB Property, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership.
          "Borrower's Share" means Borrower's and General Partner's direct or indirect share of a Consolidated Subsidiary, a Joint Venture Subsidiary or an Investment Affiliate as reasonably determined by Borrower based upon Borrower's and General Partner's economic interest (whether direct or indirect) of such Consolidated Subsidiary, Joint Venture Subsidiary or Investment Affiliate, as of the date of such determination.
          "Borrowing" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.3.
          "Business Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized by law to close.
          "Capital Leases" as applied to any Person, means any lease of any property (whether real, personal or mixed) by that Person as lessee which, in conformity with GAAP, is or should be accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of that Person.
          "Capital Funding Loan" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.14 hereof.
          "Cash or Cash Equivalents" shall mean (a) cash; (b) marketable direct obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by the United States Government or issued by an agency thereof and backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, in each case maturing within one (1) year after the date of acquisition thereof; (c) marketable direct obligations issued by any state of the United States of America or any political subdivision of any such state or any public instrumentality thereof maturing within ninety (90) days after the date of acquisition thereof and, at the time of acquisition, having one of the two highest ratings obtainable from any two of S & P, Moody's or Fitch (or, if at any time no two of the foregoing shall be rating such obligations, then from such other nationally recognized rating services acceptable to Administrative Agent ); (d) domestic corporate bonds, other than domestic corporate bonds issued by Borrower or any of its Affiliates, maturing no more than two (2) years after the date of acquisition thereof and, at the time of acquisition, having a rating of at least A or the equivalent from any two (2) of S & P, Moody's or Fitch (or, if at any time no two of the foregoing shall be rating such obligations, then from such other nationally recognized rating services acceptable to Administrative Agent); (e) variable-rate domestic corporate notes or medium term corporate notes, other than notes issued by Borrower or any of its Affiliates, maturing or resetting no more than one (1) year after the
 
date of acquisition thereof and having a rating of at least AA or the equivalent from two of S & P, Moody's or Fitch (or, if at any time no two of the foregoing shall be rating such obligations, then from such other nationally recognized rating services acceptable to Administrative Agent); (f) commercial paper (foreign and domestic) or master notes, other than commercial paper or master notes issued by Borrower or any of its Affiliates, and, at the time of acquisition, having a long-term rating of at least A or the equivalent from S & P, Moody's or Fitch and having a short-term rating of at least A-1 and P-1 from S & P and Moody's, respectively (or, if at any time neither S & P nor Moody's shall be rating such obligations, then the highest rating from such other nationally recognized rating services acceptable to Administrative Agent); (g) domestic and foreign certificates of deposit or domestic time deposits or foreign deposits or bankers' acceptances (foreign or domestic) in Dollars, Hong Kong Dollars, Singapore Dollars, Japanese Yen, Euros or Pounds Sterling that are issued by a bank (I) which has, at the time of acquisition, a long-term rating of at least A or the equivalent from S & P, Moody's or Fitch and (II) if a domestic bank, which is a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; (h) overnight securities repurchase agreements, or reverse repurchase agreements secured by any of the foregoing types of securities or debt instruments, provided that the collateral supporting such repurchase agreements shall have a value not less than 101% of the principal amount of the repurchase agreement plus accrued interest; and (i) money market funds invested in investments substantially all of which consist of the items described in clauses (a) through (h) foregoing.
          "Closing Date" means the date on or after the Effective Date on which the conditions set forth in Section 3.1 shall have been satisfied to the satisfaction of the Administrative Agent.
          "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and as it may be further amended from time to time, any successor statutes thereto, and applicable U.S. Department of Treasury regulations issued pursuant thereto in temporary or final form.
          "Commitment" means with respect to each Bank, the amount set forth under the name of such Bank on the signature pages hereof as its commitment for Loans in Dollars or an Alternate Currency (and, for each Bank which is an Assignee, the amount set forth in the Transfer Supplement entered into pursuant to Section 9.6(c) as the Assignee's Commitment), as such amount may be reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.11(e) or in connection with an assignment to an Assignee, and as such amount may be increased pursuant to Section 9.19 or in connection with an assignment from an Assignor. The initial aggregate amount of the Banks' Commitments is $345,000,000.
          "Consolidated Subsidiary" means at any date any Subsidiary or other entity which is consolidated with Borrower or General Partner in accordance with GAAP.
          "Consolidated Tangible Net Worth" means, at any time, the tangible net worth of Borrower, on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP, plus preferred units issued by Consolidated Subsidiaries, plus all accumulated depreciation and amortization of Borrower plus Borrower's Share of accumulated depreciation and amortization of Investment Affiliates, deducted, in either case, from earnings in calculating Net Income.
 
          "Construction Asset" has the meaning set forth in the definition of the term "Construction Asset Cost".
          "Construction Asset Cost" shall mean, with respect to a Real Property Asset (or, in the case of any Real Property Asset to be developed in phases, any phase thereof) in which Development Activity has begun (as evidenced by obtaining a permit to commence construction of the applicable industrial or retail improvements by the applicable governmental authority) but has not yet been substantially completed (substantial completion shall be deemed to mean not less than 90% completion, as such completion shall be evidenced by a certificate of occupancy or its equivalent and the commencement of the payment of rent by tenants of such Real Property Asset or phase) (a ""), (i) in the case of the development and construction by the Borrower described in clause (a) of the definition of Development Activity, the aggregate, good faith estimate of the total cost to be incurred by the Borrower in the construction of such improvements (including land acquisition costs); (ii) in the case of the development and construction by a Joint Venture Subsidiary or a Consolidated Subsidiary of the Borrower described in clause (a) of the definition of Development Activity, an amount equal to Borrower's Share of the aggregate, good faith estimate of the total cost to be incurred by such Joint Venture Subsidiary or such Consolidated Subsidiary, as applicable, in the construction of such improvements (including land acquisition costs); (iii) in the case of the financing of any development and construction by the Borrower, the amount the Borrower has committed to fund to pay the cost to complete such development and construction, (iv) in the case of the financing of any development and construction by a Joint Venture Subsidiary or a Consolidated Subsidiary of the Borrower, an amount equal to Borrower's Share of the amount such Joint Venture Subsidiary or such Consolidated Subsidiary, as applicable, has committed to fund to pay the cost to complete such development and construction; (v) in the case of the incurrence of any Contingent Obligations in connection with any development and construction by the Borrower, the amount of such Contingent Obligation of the Borrower, (vi) in the case of the incurrence of any Contingent Obligations in connection with any development and construction by a Joint Venture Subsidiary or a Consolidated Subsidiary of the Borrower, an amount equal to Borrower's Share of the amount of such Contingent Obligation of such Joint Venture Subsidiary or such Consolidated Subsidiary, as applicable.
Construction Asset
          "Contingent Obligation" as to any Person means, without duplication, (i) any contingent obligation of such Person required to be shown on such Person's balance sheet in accordance with GAAP, and (ii) any obligation required to be disclosed in the footnotes to such Person's financial statements, guaranteeing partially or in whole any Non-Recourse Indebtedness, lease, dividend or other obligation, exclusive of contractual indemnities (including, without limitation, any indemnity or price-adjustment provision relating to the purchase or sale of securities or other assets) and guarantees of non-monetary obligations (other than guarantees of completion) which have not yet been called on or quantified, of such Person or of any other Person. The amount of any Contingent Obligation described in clause (ii) shall be deemed to be (a) with respect to a guaranty of interest or interest and principal, or operating income guaranty, the Net Present Value of the sum of all payments required to be made thereunder (which in the case of an operating income guaranty shall be deemed to be equal to the debt service for the note secured thereby), calculated at the Applicable Interest Rate, through (i) in the case of an interest or interest and principal guaranty, the stated date of maturity of the obligation (and commencing on the date interest could first be payable thereunder), or (ii) in the case of an operating income
 
guaranty, the date through which such guaranty will remain in effect, and (b) with respect to all guarantees not covered by the preceding clause (a), an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such guaranty is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof (assuming such Person is required to perform thereunder) as recorded on the balance sheet and on the footnotes to the most recent financial statements of Borrower required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.1 hereof. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, guarantees of completion shall not be deemed to be Contingent Obligations unless and until a claim for payment or performance has been made thereunder, at which time any such guaranty of completion shall be deemed to be a Contingent Obligation in an amount equal to any such claim. Subject to the preceding sentence, (i) in the case of a joint and several guaranty given by such Person and another Person (but only to the extent such guaranty is recourse, directly or indirectly to Borrower), the amount of the guaranty shall be deemed to be 100% thereof unless and only to the extent that such other Person has delivered Cash or Cash Equivalents to secure all or any part of such Person's guaranteed obligations, (ii) in the case of joint and several guarantees given by a Person in whom Borrower owns an interest (which guarantees are non-recourse to Borrower), to the extent the guarantees, in the aggregate, exceed 15% of Total Asset Value, the amount which is the lesser of (x) the amount in excess of 15% or (y) the amount of Borrower's interest therein shall be deemed to be a Contingent Obligation of Borrower, and (iii) in the case of a guaranty (whether or not joint and several) of an obligation otherwise constituting Indebtedness of such Person, the amount of such guaranty shall be deemed to be only that amount in excess of the amount of the obligation constituting Indebtedness of such Person. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, "Contingent Obligations" shall be deemed not to include guarantees of Unused Commitments or of construction loans to the extent the same have not been drawn. All matters constituting "Contingent Obligations" shall be calculated without duplication.
          "Convertible Securities" means evidences of shares of stock, limited or general partnership interests or other ownership interests, warrants, options, or other rights or securities which are convertible into or exchangeable for, with or without payment of additional consideration, common shares of beneficial interest of General Partner or partnership interests of Borrower, as the case may be, either immediately or upon the arrival of a specified date or the happening of a specified event.
          "Covenant Modification" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.5(b).
          "Credit Rating" means the rating assigned by the Rating Agencies to Borrower's senior unsecured long term indebtedness.
          "Debt Restructuring" means a restatement of, or material change in, the amortization or other financial terms of any Indebtedness of General Partner, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or Investment Affiliate.
          "Debt Service" means, for any period and without duplication, Interest Expense for such period plus scheduled principal amortization (excluding Balloon Payments) for such period on all Balance Sheet Indebtedness of Borrower and General Partner, plus Borrower's
 
Share of scheduled principal amortization (excluding Balloon Payments) for such period on all Balance Sheet Indebtedness of Investment Affiliates and Consolidated Subsidiaries.
          "Default" means any condition or event which with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
          "Default Rate" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.8(d).
          "Defaulting Lender" means any Bank, as determined by the Administrative Agent, that (a) has failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Bank any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within three (3) Business Days of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (b) (i) become or is insolvent or has a parent company that has become or is insolvent or (ii) become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or custodian, appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment or has a parent company that has become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or custodian appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment.
          "Development Activity" means (a) the development and construction or redevelopment of industrial or retail facilities by the Borrower or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries or Joint Venture Subsidiaries excluding Unimproved Assets, (b) the financing by the Borrower or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries or Joint Venture Subsidiaries of any such development or construction or redevelopment and (c) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries or Joint Venture Subsidiaries of any Contingent Obligations in connection with such development or construction or redevelopment (other than purchase contracts for Real Property Assets which are not payable until after completion of development or construction).
          "Dollar Equivalent Amount" shall mean (i) with respect to any amount of Alternate Currency on any day, the equivalent amount in Dollars of such amount of Alternate Currency as determined by the Administrative Agent using the applicable Exchange Rate on such day and (ii) with respect to any amount of Dollars, such amount.
          "Dollars" and "$" means the lawful money of the United States.
          "Domestic Lending Office" means, as to each Bank, its office located at its address in the United States set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire (or identified in its Administrative Questionnaire as its Domestic Lending Office) or such other office as such Bank may hereafter designate as its Domestic Lending Office by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
          "EBITDA" means, for any period (i) Borrower's and General Partner's Income from Operations for such period, including Borrower's Share of the Consolidated Subsidiary
 
Income from Operations for each Consolidated Subsidiary, plus (ii) Borrower's and General Partner's depreciation and amortization expense and other non-cash items deducted in the calculation of Income from Operations for such period, plus (iii) Borrower's and General Partner's Interest Expense deducted in the calculation of Income from Operations for such period, plus (iv) Borrower's Share of the Investment Affiliate EBITDA for each Investment Affiliate, all of the foregoing without duplication.
          "Effective Date" means the date this Agreement becomes effective in accordance with Section 9.9.
          "Environmental Affiliate" means any partnership, joint venture, trust or corporation in which an equity interest is owned directly or indirectly by the Borrower and, as a result of the ownership of such equity interest, Borrower may have recourse liability for Environmental Claims against such partnership, joint venture, trust or corporation (or the property thereof).
          "Environmental Claim" means, with respect to any Person, any notice, claim, demand or similar communication (written or oral) by any other Person alleging potential liability of such Person for investigatory costs, cleanup costs, governmental response costs, natural resources damage, property damages, personal injuries, fines or penalties arising out of, based on or resulting from (i) the presence, or release into the environment, of any Materials of Environmental Concern at any location, whether or not owned by such Person or (ii) circumstances forming the basis of any violation, or alleged violation, of any Environmental Law, in each case (with respect to both (i) and (ii) above) as to which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse determination with respect thereto and which, if adversely determined, would have a Material Adverse Effect on the Borrower.
          "Environmental Laws" means any and all federal, state, and local statutes, laws, judicial decisions, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, plans, injunctions, permits, concessions, grants, licenses, agreements and other governmental restrictions relating to the environment, the effect of the environment on human health or to emissions, discharges or releases of Materials of Environmental Concern into the environment including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, ground water, or land, or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Materials of Environmental Concern or the clean up or other remediation thereof.
          "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor statute.
          "ERISA Group" means the Borrower, any Subsidiary, General Partner and all members of a controlled group of corporations and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control and all members of an "affiliated service group" which, together with the Borrower, any Subsidiary or General Partner, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code or Section 4001(b)(1) of ERISA.
          "Euro-Dollar Borrowing" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.3.
 
          "Euro-Dollar Business Day" means any Business Day on which banks are open for dealings in Dollar deposits in the London interbank market, and on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open for the settlement of payment in Euros, and any day on which commercial banks are open for foreign exchange business in (i) London, or (ii) if such reference relates to the date on which any amount is to be paid or made available in an Alternate Currency, the principal financial center in the country of such Alternate Currency.
          "Euro-Dollar Lending Office" means, as to each Bank, its office, branch or affiliate located at its address set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire (or identified in its Administrative Questionnaire as its Euro-Dollar Lending Office) or such other office, branch or affiliate of such Bank as it may hereafter designate as its Euro-Dollar Lending Office by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
          "Euro-Dollar Loan" means a Loan to be made by a Bank as a Euro-Dollar Loan in accordance with the applicable Notice of Borrowing. Euro-Dollar Loans may be denominated in a currency included in the definition of Alternate Currency or in Dollars.
          "Euro-Dollar Reference Bank" means the principal London offices of the Administrative Agent.
          "Euro-Dollar Reserve Percentage" means for any day that percentage (expressed as a decimal) which is in effect on such day, as prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) under Regulation D, as Regulation D may be amended, modified or supplemented, for determining the maximum reserve requirement for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with deposits exceeding five billion dollars in respect of "Eurocurrency liabilities" (or in respect of any other category of liabilities which includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Euro-Dollar Loans is determined or any category of extensions of credit or other assets which includes loans by a non-United States office of any Bank to United States residents). The Adjusted Interbank Offered Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in the Euro-Dollar Reserve Percentage.
          "Event of Default" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1.
          "Exchange Rate" means, (i) the rate appearing on the relevant display page (as determined by the Administrative Agent) on the Reuters Monitor Money Rates Service for the sale of the applicable Alternate Currency for Dollars in the London foreign exchange market at approximately 11a.m. (London time) for delivery two (2) Euro-Dollar Business Days later or if not available (ii) the spot selling rate at which the Administrative Agent offers to sell such Alternate Currency for Dollars in the London foreign exchange market at approximately 11:00a.m. (London time) for delivery two Euro-Dollar Business Days later; , , that if, at the time of any such determination, no such spot rate can reasonably be quoted, the Administrative Agent may use any reasonable method (including obtaining quotes from two (2) or more market makers for the applicable Alternate Currency) as it deems applicable to determine such rate, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
provided
however
 
          "Existing Credit Agreement" means the Credit Agreement, dated as of March 27, 2008, among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, and the banks party thereto.
          "Facility Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1.
          "Federal Funds Rate" means, for any day, the rate per annum (rounded upward, if necessary, to the nearest 1/100th of 1%) equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day, provided that (i) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (ii) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate quoted to the Administrative Agent on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
          "Federal Reserve Board" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as constituted from time to time.
          "FFO" means "funds from operations," defined to mean, without duplication for any period, Income from Operations, plus (i) Borrower's Share of Income from Operations of any Investment Affiliate (plus Borrower's Share of real estate depreciation and amortization expenses of Investment Affiliates), plus (ii) real estate depreciation and amortization expense for such period.
          "Financing Partnerships" means any Subsidiary which is wholly-owned, directly or indirectly, by Borrower or by Borrower and General Partner, with General Partner holding, directly or indirectly other than through its interest in Borrower, no more than a 2% economic interest in such Subsidiary.
          "First Tier JV" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.14.
          "Fiscal Quarter" means a fiscal quarter of a Fiscal Year.
          "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of Borrower and General Partner.
          "Fitch" means Fitch, Inc., or any successor thereto.
          "Fixed Charges" for any Fiscal Quarter period means the sum of (i) Debt Service for such period, (ii) dividends on preferred units payable by Borrower for such period, and (iii) distributions made by Borrower in such period to Guarantor for the purpose of paying dividends on preferred shares in Guarantor. If any of the foregoing Indebtedness is subject to an interest rate cap agreement purchased by the Borrower, the Guarantor or a Consolidated Subsidiary, the interest rate shall be assumed to be the lower of the actual interest payable on such Indebtedness or the capped rate of such interest rate cap agreement. In no event shall any dividends payable on the Guarantor's or any Consolidated Subsidiary's common stock be included in Fixed Charges.
          "Fixed Rate Borrowing" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.3.
 
          "Fixed Rate Indebtedness" means all Indebtedness which accrues interest at a fixed rate.
          "Floating Rate Indebtedness" means all Indebtedness which is not Fixed Rate Indebtedness and which is not a Contingent Obligation or an Unused Commitment.
          "FMV Cap Rate" means seven and three-quarters percent (7.75%).
          "Foreign Property Interests" means Borrower's or General Partner's interest, without duplication, in Properties located outside the United States.
          "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles recognized as such in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination.
          "General Partner" means AMB Property Corporation, a Maryland corporation qualified as a real estate investment trust and the sole general partner of Borrower.
          "Group of Loans" means, at any time, a group of Loans consisting of (i) all Loans which are Base Rate Loans at such time, or (ii) all Euro-Dollar Loans in the same currency having the same Interest Period at such time; provided that, if a Loan of any particular Bank is converted to or made as a Base Rate Loan pursuant to Section 8.2 or 8.5, such Loan shall be included in the same Group or Groups of Loans from time to time as it would have been in if it had not been so converted or made.
          "Guarantor" shall mean AMB Property Corporation, a Maryland corporation qualified as a real estate investment trust.
          "Guaranty" shall mean that certain Guaranty Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by General Partner, as guarantor, to Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Banks.
          "Income from Operations" means, for any period, Net Income before the deduction of (i) Taxes, (ii) minority interests, (iii) gains and losses on asset sales, Debt Restructurings or write-ups or forgiveness of indebtedness, (iv) gains and losses from extraordinary items, (v) payment of preferred dividends, calculated in conformity with GAAP, and (vi) an adjustment to exclude the straight-lining of rents.
          "Indebtedness" as applied to any Person (and without duplication), means (a) all indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities of such Person for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of property or services, including all liabilities of such Person evidenced by Securities or other similar instruments, (b) all Contingent Obligations of such Person, (c) all indebtedness obligations or other liabilities of such Person or others secured by a Lien on any asset of such Person, in excess of 2.5% of Total Liabilities in the aggregate, whether or not such indebtedness, obligations or liabilities are assumed by, or are a personal liability of such Person, and (d) all other items which, in accordance with GAAP, would be included as liabilities on the liability side of, or in the footnotes to the balance sheet of such Person, exclusive, however, of all
 
dividends and distributions declared but not yet paid. Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the term "Indebtedness" is used with respect to Borrower or General Partner without expressly stating that such Indebtedness is to be determined on a consolidated basis, such "Indebtedness" shall only include Borrower's Share of any Indebtedness of a Consolidated Subsidiary.
          "Indemnitee" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.3(b).
          "Initial Qualified Borrowers" means those Persons set forth on .
Schedule 1.1(a)
          "Interbank Offered Rate" applicable to any Interest Period means the average (rounded upward, if necessary, to the next higher 1/16 of 1%) of the respective rates per annum at which deposits in Dollars or Alternate Currency, as applicable, are offered to the Euro-Dollar Reference Bank in the interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Euro-Dollar Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount approximately equal to the principal amount of the Euro-Dollar Borrowing or Group of Loans or portion thereof to be converted into or continued as Euro-Dollar Loans to which such Interest Period is to apply and for a period of time comparable to such Interest Period.
          "Interest Expense" means, for any period and without duplication, total interest expense, whether paid, accrued or capitalized, determined in accordance with GAAP, with respect to Balance Sheet Indebtedness of Borrower and General Partner, plus Borrower's Share of accrued, paid or capitalized interest with respect to any Balance Sheet Indebtedness of Investment Affiliates and Consolidated Subsidiaries (in each case, including, without limitation, the interest component of Capital Leases but excluding interest expense covered by an interest reserve established under a loan facility such as capitalized construction interest provided for in a construction loan).
          "Interest Period" means: with respect to each Euro-Dollar Borrowing or TIBOR Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing specified in the Notice of Borrowing or on the date specified in the applicable Notice of Interest Rate Election and ending 1, 2, 3 or 6 months thereafter, as the Borrower may elect in the applicable Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Interest Rate Election; , that:
provided
     (a) any Interest Period which would otherwise end on a day which is not a Euro-Dollar Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Euro-Dollar Business Day unless such Euro-Dollar Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Euro-Dollar Business Day;
     (b) any Interest Period which begins on the last Euro-Dollar Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Euro-Dollar Business Day of a calendar month; and
     (c) no Interest Period may end later than the Maturity Date.
          "Interest Rate Contracts" means, collectively, interest rate swap, collar, cap or similar agreements providing interest rate protection.
 
          "Intermediate Tier Entity" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.14.
          "International FinCo" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.14.
          "Intracompany Indebtedness" means Indebtedness whose obligor and obligee are each the Borrower, the Guarantor or a Consolidated Subsidiary.
          "Investment Affiliate" means any Person in whom Guarantor or Borrower holds an equity interest, directly or indirectly, whose financial results are not consolidated under GAAP with the financial results of Guarantor or Borrower on the consolidated financial statements of General Partner and Borrower.
          "Investment Affiliate EBITDA" means, for any period (i) Income from Operations of an Investment Affiliate for such period, plus (ii) depreciation and amortization expense and other non-cash items deducted in the calculation of Income from Operations of such Investment Affiliate for such period, plus (iii) Interest Expense deducted in the calculation of Income from Operations of such Investment Affiliate for such period, all of the foregoing without duplication.
          "Investment Grade Rating" means a rating for a Person's senior long-term unsecured debt of BBB- or better from S&P or a rating of Baa3 or better from Moody's. In the event that Borrower receives Credit Ratings only from S&P and Moody's, and such Credit Ratings are not equivalent, the higher of such two (2) Credit Ratings shall be used to determine whether an Investment Grade Rating was achieved. In the event that Borrower receives more than two (2) Credit Ratings, and such Credit Ratings are not all equivalent, the highest Credit Rating shall be used to determine whether an Investment Grade Rating was achieved, provided that said highest rating is from S&P or Moody's; provided, further, that if the highest rating is not from S&P or Moody's, then the highest Credit Rating from either S&P or Moody's shall be used to determine whether an Investment Grade Rating was achieved.
          "Investment Mortgages" means mortgages securing indebtedness with respect to Real Property Assets directly or indirectly owed to Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, certificates of interest in real estate mortgage investment conduits.
          "Joint Bookrunners" means J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, in their capacity as Joint Bookrunners hereunder.
          "Joint Lead Arrangers" means J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, in their capacity as Joint Lead Arrangers hereunder.
          "Joint Lenders" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.14.
          "Joint Venture Interests" means partnership, joint venture, membership or other equity interests issued by any Person which is an Investment Affiliate that is not a Subsidiary, is not consolidated with Borrower and is not controlled by a Joint Venture Parent.
          "Joint Venture Parent" means Borrower or one or more Financing Partnerships of Borrower which directly or indirectly owns any interest in a Joint Venture Subsidiary.
 
          "Joint Venture Subsidiary" means any entity (other than a Financing Partnership) in which (i) a Joint Venture Parent owns at least 50% of the economic interests and (ii) the sale or financing of any Property owned by such Joint Venture Subsidiary is substantially controlled by a Joint Venture Parent, subject to customary provisions set forth in the organizational documents of such Joint Venture Subsidiary with respect to refinancings or rights of first refusal granted to other members of such Joint Venture Subsidiary. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the sale or financing of a Property owned by a Joint Venture Subsidiary shall be deemed to be substantially controlled by a Joint Venture Parent, if such Joint Venture Parent has the ability to exercise a buy-sell right in the event of a disagreement regarding the sale or financing of such Property.
          "JV Non-US Property Owner" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.14.
          "Lending Office" means, as to each Bank, its office, branch or affiliate located at its address set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire or such other office, branch or affiliate of such Bank as it may hereafter designate as its Lending Office by notice to each Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
          "Lien" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement, in each case that has the effect of creating a security interest, in respect of such asset. For the purposes of this Agreement, the Borrower or any Consolidated Subsidiary shall be deemed to own subject to a Lien any asset which it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such asset.
          "Loan" means a loan made by a Bank pursuant to Section 2.1; provided that, if any such loan or loans (or portions thereof) are combined or subdivided pursuant to a Notice of Interest Rate Election, the term "Loan" shall refer to the combined principal amount resulting from such combination or to each of the separate principal amounts resulting from such subdivision, as the case may be.
          "Loan Documents" means this Agreement, the Notes and the Guaranty.
          "Majority Banks" means at any time Banks having at least 51% of the aggregate amount of Commitments, or if the Commitments shall have been terminated, holding Notes evidencing at least 51% of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Loans.
          "Material Adverse Effect" means an effect resulting from any circumstance or event or series of circumstances or events, of whatever nature (but excluding general economic conditions), which does or could reasonably be expected to, materially and adversely impair (i) the ability of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to perform their respective obligations under the Loan Documents, or (ii) the ability of Administrative Agent or the Banks to enforce the Loan Documents.
          "Materials of Environmental Concern" means and includes pollutants, contaminants, hazardous wastes, toxic and hazardous substances, asbestos, lead, petroleum and petroleum by-products.
 
          "Maturity Date" shall mean the date when all of the Obligations hereunder shall be due and payable which shall be October 15, 2012, unless otherwise accelerated pursuant to the terms hereof.
          "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Services, Inc. or any successor thereto.
          "Multiemployer Plan" means at any time an employee pension benefit plan within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA to which any member of the ERISA Group is then making or accruing an obligation to make contributions or has at any time after September 25, 1980 made contributions or has been required to make contributions (for these purposes any Person which ceased to be a member of the ERISA Group after September 25, 1980 will be treated as a member of the ERISA Group).
          "Negative Pledge" means, with respect to any Property, any covenant, condition, or other restriction entered into by the owner of such Property or directly binding on such Property which prohibits or limits the creation or assumption of any Lien upon such Property to secure any or all of the Obligations; , , that such term shall not include (a) any covenant, condition or restriction contained in any ground lease from a governmental entity, and (b) financial covenants given for the benefit of any Person that may be violated by the granting of any Lien on any Property to secure any or all of the Obligations.
provided
however
          "Net Income" means, for any period, net income as calculated in conformity with GAAP.
          "Net Offering Proceeds" means all cash or other assets received by General Partner or Borrower as a result of the issuance or sale of common shares of beneficial interest, preferred shares of beneficial interest, partnership interests, preferred partnership units, limited liability company interests, Convertible Securities or other ownership or equity interests in General Partner or Borrower less customary costs and discounts of issuance paid by General Partner or Borrower, as the case may be.
          "Net Price" means, with respect to the purchase of any Property, without duplication, (i) the aggregate purchase price paid as cash consideration for such purchase (without adjustment for prorations), including, without limitation, the principal amount of any note received or other deferred payment to be made in connection with such purchase (except as described in clause (ii) below) and the value of any non-cash consideration delivered in connection with such purchase (including, without limitation, shares or preferred shares of beneficial interest in General Partner and OP Units or Preferred OP Units (as defined in Borrower's partnership agreement)) plus (ii) reasonable costs of sale and non-recurring taxes paid or payable in connection with such purchase or sale.
          "Net Present Value" shall mean, as to a specified or ascertainable dollar amount, the present value, as of the date of calculation of any such amount using a discount rate equal to the Base Rate in effect as of the date of such calculation.
          "Non-QII Bank" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.22.
 
          "Non-Recourse Indebtedness" means Indebtedness with respect to which recourse for payment is limited to (i) specific Property or Properties encumbered by a Lien securing such Indebtedness and/or another Person so long as there is no recourse to Borrower or the General Partner, or (ii) any Consolidated Subsidiary or Investment Affiliate (provided that if an entity is a partnership, there is no recourse to Borrower or General Partner as a general partner of such partnership); provided, however, that personal recourse of Borrower or General Partner for any such Indebtedness for fraud, misrepresentation, misapplication of cash, waste, environmental claims and liabilities and other circumstances customarily excluded by institutional lenders from exculpation provisions and/or included in separate indemnification agreements in non-recourse financing of real estate shall not, by itself, prevent such Indebtedness from being characterized as Non-Recourse Indebtedness. For purposes of the foregoing and for the avoidance of doubt, (a) if the Indebtedness is partially guaranteed by the Borrower or the General Partner, then the portion of such Indebtedness that is not so guaranteed shall still be Non-Recourse Indebtedness if it otherwise satisfies the requirements in this definition, and (b) if the liability of Borrower or the General Partner under any such guaranty is itself limited to specific Property or Properties, then such Indebtedness shall still be Non-Recourse Indebtedness if such Indebtedness otherwise satisfies the requirements of this definition.
          "Non-US Property" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.14.
          "Non-US Property Owners" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.14.
          "Notes" means (i) the promissory notes of the Borrower and each Qualified Borrower that is not a TMK, substantially in the form of and hereto, respectively, and (ii) the undertakings of each Qualified Borrower that is a TMK, substantially in the form of hereto, evidencing the obligation of the Borrower or Qualified Borrower, as the case may be, to repay the Loans, and "Note" means any one of such promissory notes or undertakings issued hereunder. Each reference in this Agreement to the "Note" of any Bank shall be deemed to refer to and include any or all Notes, as the context may require.
Exhibit A
Exhibit A-1
Exhibit A-2
          "Notice of Borrowing" means a notice from Borrower in accordance with Section 2.2 or Section 2.3(b)(i).
          "Notice of Interest Rate Election" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.7.
          "Obligations" means all obligations, liabilities, indemnity obligations and Indebtedness of every nature of the Borrower, from time to time owing to Administrative Agent or any Bank under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
          "Parent" means, with respect to any Bank, any Person controlling such Bank.
          "Participant" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.6(b).
          "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
          "Permitted Holdings" means Unimproved Assets, interests in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries and Investment Mortgages, but only to the extent permitted in Section 5.8.
 
          "Permitted Liens" means:
     a. Liens for Taxes, assessments or other governmental charges not yet due and payable or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings promptly instituted and diligently conducted in accordance with the terms hereof;
     b. statutory liens of carriers, warehousemen, mechanics, materialmen and other similar liens imposed by law, which are incurred in the ordinary course of business for sums not more than sixty (60) days delinquent or which are being contested in good faith in accordance with the terms hereof;
     c. deposits made in the ordinary course of business in connection with worker's compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation or to secure liabilities to insurance carriers;
     d. utility deposits and other deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases, purchase contracts, construction contracts, governmental contracts, statutory obligations, surety bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
     e. Liens for purchase money obligations for equipment (or Liens to secure Indebtedness incurred within 90 days after the purchase of any equipment to pay all or a portion of the purchase price thereof or to secure Indebtedness incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of any such equipment, or extensions, renewals, or replacements of any of the foregoing for the same or lesser amount); provided that (i) the Indebtedness secured by any such Lien does not exceed the purchase price of such equipment, (ii) any such Lien encumbers only the asset so purchased and the proceeds upon sale, disposition, loss or destruction thereof, and (iii) such Lien, after giving effect to the Indebtedness secured thereby, does not give rise to an Event of Default;
     f. easements, rights-of-way, zoning restrictions, other similar charges or encumbrances and all other items listed on Schedule B to Borrower's owner's title insurance policies, except in connection with any Indebtedness, for any of Borrower's Real Property Assets, so long as the foregoing do not interfere in any material respect with the use or ordinary conduct of the business of Borrower and do not diminish in any material respect the value of the Property to which it is attached or for which it is listed;
     g. (I) Liens and judgments which have been or will be bonded (and the Lien on any cash or securities serving as security for such bond) or released of record within thirty (30) days after the date such Lien or judgment is entered or filed against General Partner, Borrower, or any Subsidiary, or (II) Liens which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings for review and in respect of which there shall have been secured a subsisting stay of execution pending
 
such appeal or proceedings and as to which the subject asset is not at risk of forfeiture;
     h. Liens on Property of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (other than Unencumbered Property) securing Indebtedness which may be incurred or remain outstanding without resulting in an Event of Default hereunder; and
     i. Liens in favor of Borrower, General Partner or a Consolidated Subsidiary against any asset of any Consolidated Subsidiary or any Investment Affiliate.
          "Person" means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited liability company, an association, a trust or any other entity or organization, including, without limitation, a government or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.
          "Plan" means at any time an employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) which is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code and either (i) is maintained, or contributed to, by any member of the ERISA Group for employees of any member of the ERISA Group or (ii) has at any time within the preceding five years been maintained, or contributed to, by any Person which was at such time a member of the ERISA Group for employees of any Person which was at such time a member of the ERISA Group.
          "Preferred Stock Subsidiary" means a corporation organized with two classes of stock, consisting of one class of voting common shares and one class of non-voting preferred shares, all of whose preferred shares are owned by a Person seeking to be treated as a real estate investment trust under the Code (or an operating partnership of which such Person is general partner) and all of the common shares of which are owned by individuals or entities who are neither owned nor controlled by such Person (but which individuals may be, and which entities may be owned and controlled by, officers, directors or employees of such Person), and to which such Person (or an operating partnership of which such Person is general partner) has contributed at least ninety-five percent (95%) or more of the equity capital raised by such corporation in exchange for the issuance of such corporation's shares.
          "Prime Rate" means the rate of interest publicly announced by the Administrative Agent from time to time as its Prime Rate (it being understood that the same shall not necessarily be the best rate offered by the Administrative Agent to customers).
          "principal financial center" means, when used in reference to an Alternate Currency, (a) in the case of Euros, Frankfurt am Main, Germany, and (b) in the case of Yen, Tokyo, Japan.
          "Pro Rata Share" means, with respect to any Bank, a fraction (expressed as a percentage), the numerator of which shall be the amount of such Bank's Commitment and the denominator of which shall be the aggregate amount of all of the Banks' Commitments, as adjusted from time to time in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
 
          "Property" means, with respect to any Person, any real or personal property, building, facility, structure, equipment or unit, or other asset owned by such Person.
          "Qualified Borrower" means a (i) a TMK or company () organized under the laws of Japan or (ii) a Japan branch of a limited partnership, limited liability company or other business entity organized under the laws of the United States (including any state or District of Columbia), duly registered in Japan, which is at least 50% owned, directly or indirectly, by AMB LP and of which AMB LP (or a Person that is owned and controlled, directly or indirectly, by AMB LP) is the sole shareholder, general partner or managing member, or otherwise exercises control over such entity or (iii) a foreign or domestic limited partnership, limited liability company or other business entity duly organized under the laws of its jurisdiction of formation of which the Borrower (or a Person that is owned and controlled by the Borrower) is the sole general partner or managing member, and the Indebtedness of which, in all cases, can be guaranteed by the Guarantors pursuant to the provisions of the Guarantors' formation documents and who has been added as a Qualified Borrower hereunder in accordance with Section 2.21(a).
kabushiki kaisha or mochibun kaisha
          "Qualified Borrower Joinder Agreements" means, collectively, one or more Qualified Borrower Joinder Agreements, among Administrative Agent (on behalf of the Banks) and a Qualified Borrower relating to a Subsidiary which is to become a Qualified Borrower hereunder at any time on or after the date of this Agreement, the form of which is attached hereto as .
Exhibit C
          "Qualified Borrower Joinder Documents" means, as to any Qualified Borrower Joinder Agreement, collectively, all documents, instruments and certificates required by such Qualified Borrower Joinder Agreement to be delivered pursuant to the terms thereof.
          "Qualified Borrower Undertaking" means the undertakings of each Qualified Borrower that is a TMK, substantially in the form of hereto, evidencing the obligation of such Qualified Borrower to repay the Loans made to such Qualified Borrower.
Exhibit A-2
          "Qualified Borrower Guaranty" means a full and unconditional guaranty of payment in the form of attached hereto, enforceable against Borrower for the payment of a Qualified Borrower's debt or obligation to the Banks.
Exhibit D
          "Qualified Institution" means a Bank, or one or more banks, finance companies, insurance or other financial institutions which (A) has (or, in the case of a bank which is a subsidiary, such bank's parent has) a rating of its senior debt obligations of not less than Baa-1 by Moody's or a comparable rating by a rating agency acceptable to Syndication Agent and (B) has total assets in excess of Ten Billion Dollars ($10,000,000,000).
          "Qualified Institutional Investor" () has the meaning assigned thereto in Article 2, Section 3, item 1 of the Securities and Exchange Law () of Japan (Law No. 25 of 1948, as amended from time to time) and Article 4, Section 1 of the regulations relating to the definitions contained in such Article 2.
tekikaku kikan toshika
shoken torihiki ho
          "Rating Agencies" means, collectively, S&P, Moody's and Fitch.
 
          "Real Property Assets" means as to any Person as of any time, the real property assets (including, without limitation, interests in participating mortgages in which such Person's interest therein is characterized as equity according to GAAP) owned directly or indirectly by such Person at such time.
          "Recourse Debt" shall mean Indebtedness that is not Non-Recourse Indebtedness.
          "Regulation U" means Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time
          "REIT" means a real estate investment trust, as defined under Section 856 of the Code.
          "Revised Adjusted EBITDA" means, for any period, Adjusted EBITDA for such period, less ((a) interest income, and (b) a management fee equal to three percent (3%) of consolidated rental revenue from Real Property Assets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries and Investment Affiliates for such period, plus (i) actual general and administrative expenses for such period to the extent deducted in calculating Adjusted EBITDA, and (ii) actual management fees with respect to Real Property Assets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries and Investment Affiliates for such period.
          "Revolver" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.5(b).
          "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor thereto.
          "Second Tier Funding Loan" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.14.
          "Secured Debt" means Indebtedness (but excluding Intracompany Indebtedness), the payment of which is secured by a Lien (other than a Permitted Lien, except for those Permitted Liens described in clause (h) of the definition thereof) on any Property owned or leased by General Partner or Borrower plus Borrower's Share of Indebtedness (but excluding Intracompany Indebtedness), the payment of which is secured by a Lien (other than a Permitted Lien, except for those Permitted Liens described in clause (h) of the definition thereof) on any Property owned or leased by any Investment Affiliate or any Consolidated Subsidiary.
          "Securities" means any stock, partnership interests, shares, shares of beneficial interest, voting trust certificates, bonds, debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, secured or unsecured, convertible, subordinated or otherwise, or in general any instruments commonly known as "securities," or any certificates of interest, shares, or participations in temporary or interim certificates for the purchase or acquisition of, or any right to subscribe to, purchase or acquire any of the foregoing, but shall not include Joint Venture Interests, any interest in any Subsidiary of General Partner or Borrower, any interest in a Taxable REIT Subsidiary, any Indebtedness which would not be required to be included on the liabilities side of the balance sheet of General Partner or Borrower on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, any Cash or Cash Equivalents or any evidence of the Obligations.
 
          "Sharing Event" means (i) the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to the Borrower or General Partner under clauses (f) or (g) of Section 6.1, or (ii) the acceleration of the Loans pursuant to Article VI.
          "Solvent" means, with respect to any Person, that the fair saleable value of such Person's assets exceeds the Indebtedness of such Person.
          "Subsidiary" means any corporation or other entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are at the time directly or indirectly owned by the Borrower or General Partner.
          "Subsidiary Operating Partnership" shall mean a limited liability company or limited partnership in which the only interest therein not owned (directly or indirectly) by Borrower and/or General Partner shall be preference interests or preference units, respectively.
          "Substantially Controlled by Borrower" means, with respect to any action, that such action is substantially controlled by Borrower as contemplated under Section 5.14.
          "Sumitomo" shall mean Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, its successors and assigns.
          "Syndication Agent" means Sumitomo Mistui Banking Corporation, in its capacity as syndication agent hereunder and its permitted successors in such capacity in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
          "Taxable REIT Subsidiary" means any corporation (other than a REIT) in which General Partner directly or indirectly owns stock and General Partner and such corporation jointly elect that such corporation shall be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary of General Partner under and pursuant to Section 856 of the Code.
          "Taxes" means all federal, state, local and foreign income and gross receipts taxes.
          "Term" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.10.
          "Termination Event" shall mean (i) a "reportable event", as such term is described in Section 4043 of ERISA (other than a "reportable event" not subject to the provision for 30-day notice to the PBGC), or an event described in Section 4062(e) of ERISA, (ii) the withdrawal by any member of the ERISA Group from a Multiemployer Plan during a plan year in which it is a "substantial employer" (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA), or the incurrence of liability by any member of the ERISA Group under Section 4064 of ERISA upon the termination of a Multiemployer Plan, (iii) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate any Plan under Section 4041 of ERISA, other than in a standard termination within the meaning of Section 4041 of ERISA, or the treatment of a Plan amendment as a distress termination under Section 4041 of ERISA, (iv) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate, impose liability (other than for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA) in respect of, or cause a trustee to be appointed to administer, any Plan or (v) any other event or condition that might reasonably constitute grounds for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan or the imposition of
 
any liability or encumbrance or Lien on the Real Property Assets or any member of the ERISA Group under ERISA or the Code.
          "TIBOR" means (a) the interest rate offered for Yen deposits for a period comparable to the applicable Interest Period which appears on the screen display designated as "Reuters Screen TIBM" under the caption "Average of 10 Banks" on the Reuters Service (or such other screen display or service as may replace it for the purpose of displaying Tokyo interbank offered rates of prime banks for Yen deposits) at or about 11:00 am (New York time) on the second Business Day before the first day of the applicable Interest Period or (b) if no such interest rate is available on the Reuters Service (or such replacement), the interest rate offered for Yen deposits for a period comparable to the applicable Interest Period which appears on the screen display designated as "Euro-Yen TIBOR" on page 23070 of the Telerate Service published by the Japanese Bankers Association (or such other screen display or service as may replace it for the purpose of displaying Tokyo interbank offered rates of prime banks for Yen deposits) at or about 11:00 am (New York time) on the second Business Day before the first day of the applicable Interest Period; or (c) if no such interest rate is available on the Reuters Service (or such replacement) or the Telerate Service (or such replacement), the rate per annum which the TIBOR Reference Bank is offering to leading banks in the Tokyo interbank market for deposits in Yen for a period equal to the applicable Interest Period at or about 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the second Business Day before the first day of the applicable Interest Period; or (d) if no such interest rate is available on the Reuters Service (or such replacement) or the Telerate Service (or such replacement) and the TIBOR Reference Bank is unable to provide the rate referred to in (b) above, the Prime Rate.
          "TIBOR Loan" means a Yen-denominated Loan to be made by a Bank as a TIBOR Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
          "TIBOR Reference Bank" means Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation".
          "Tiered Non-US Property" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.14.
          "TMK" means a special purpose corporation () organized under TMK Law.
tokutei mokuteki kaisha
          "TMK Law" means the Law Regarding Liquidation of Assets () of Japan (Law No. 105 of 1998, as amended from time to time).
Shisan no Ryudoka ni Kansuru Horitsu
          "Total Asset Value" means, with respect to Borrower and without duplication, (i) the quotient obtained by dividing (a) (x) (1) Revised Adjusted EBITDA for the previous four (4) Fiscal Quarters most recently ended, minus (2) for any Property (other than Construction Assets or Unimproved Assets) which was acquired by Borrower, a Consolidated Subsidiary or an Investment Affiliate in any of the previous four (4) Fiscal Quarters, the Revised Adjusted EBITDA attributable to such Property to the extent the same was included in the Revised Adjusted EBITDA of Borrower in clause (1) of this definition by (b) the FMV Cap Rate, plus (ii) for any Property which was acquired by Borrower in any of the previous four (4) Fiscal Quarters, the sum of (x) the Net Price of the Property paid by Borrower for such Property and (y) the cost of capital expenditures actually incurred in connection with such Property, plus (iii) for any
 
Property which was acquired by an Investment Affiliate or a Consolidated Subsidiary in any of the previous four (4) Fiscal Quarters, the sum of (x) Borrower's Share of the Net Price of the Property paid by such Investment Affiliate or by such Consolidated Subsidiary, as applicable, for such Property, and (y) Borrower's share of the cost of capital expenditures actually incurred in connection with such Property plus (iv) the value of any Cash or Cash Equivalent owned by Borrower (including Cash or Cash Equivalents held in restricted Section 1031 accounts under the control of Borrower or any Consolidated Subsidiary), and Borrower's Share of any Cash or Cash Equivalent owned by any Consolidated Subsidiary or Investment Affiliate (including Cash or Cash Equivalents held in restricted Section 1031 accounts under the control of Borrower or any Consolidated Subsidiary), plus (v) the value of any Construction Assets, Unimproved Assets and any other tangible assets of Borrower (including foreign currency exchange agreements, to the extent such agreements are material and are reported or are required under GAAP to be reported by the Borrower in its financial statements), as measured on a GAAP basis, plus (vi) Borrower's Share of the value of any Construction Assets, Unimproved Assets and any other tangible assets of any Investment Affiliate or any Consolidated Subsidiary as measured on a GAAP basis. For purposes of the foregoing, a Property which was a Construction Asset will be deemed to have been acquired on the date it ceases to be a Construction Asset.
          "Total Liabilities" means, as of the date of determination and without duplication, all Balance Sheet Indebtedness of Borrower and General Partner, plus Borrower's Share of all Balance Sheet Indebtedness of Investment Affiliates and Consolidated Subsidiaries.
          "Unencumbered Net Operating Cash Flow" means, as of any date of determination, the Unencumbered Net Operating Income for the previous four (4) Fiscal Quarters (provided that as to any Unencumbered Property acquired during such period and owned for not less than one (1) Fiscal Quarter, Unencumbered Net Operating Income attributable to such period occurring after such acquisition shall be annualized).
          "Unencumbered Net Operating Income" means, for any period, for all Unencumbered Properties, the aggregate revenues from each such Unencumbered Property for such period (including, without limitation, lease termination fees appropriately amortized, but excluding deferred rents receivable) or in the case of any Unencumbered Property owned by a Joint Venture Subsidiary, Borrower's Share thereof, less the cost of maintaining such Unencumbered Properties (including, without limitation, taxes, insurance, repairs and maintenance, but excluding depreciation, amortization, interest costs and capital expenditures) or in the case of any Unencumbered Property owned by a Joint Venture Subsidiary, Borrower's Share thereof (provided that as to any Unencumbered Property acquired during such period, only revenues and property level expenses attributable to such period occurring after such acquisition shall be included), as adjusted for (i) capital expenditure reserves at the rate of Ten Cents ($0.10, or in the case of any Unencumbered Property owned by a Joint Venture Subsidiary, Borrower's Share of Ten Cents ($0.10)) per square foot per annum of space leased as of the applicable date of determination (provided that, as to any Unencumbered Property acquired during such period, such amount per square foot shall be pro-rated for the period of ownership) and (ii) to exclude the effects of straight-lining of rents.
          "Unencumbered Property" means any retail or industrial Property (including Unimproved Assets and Construction Assets, but excluding interests in participating mortgages
 
in which such Person's interest therein is characterized as equity according to GAAP) from time to time which (i) is an operating Real Property Asset which is owned directly or indirectly 100% in fee (or ground leasehold) by Borrower, a Financing Partnership or a Joint Venture Subsidiary, (ii) is not subject (nor are any equity interests in such Property that are owned directly or indirectly by Borrower, General Partner or any Joint Venture Parent subject) to a Lien which secures Indebtedness of any Person other than Permitted Liens, and (iii) is not subject (nor are any equity interests in such Property that are owned directly or indirectly by Borrower, General Partner or any Joint Venture Parent subject) to any Negative Pledge (provided that a financial covenant given for the benefit of any Person that may be violated by the granting of any Lien on any Property to secure any or all of the Obligations shall not be deemed a Negative Pledge).
          "Unimproved Assets" means Real Property Assets (or, in the case of any Real Property Assets to be developed in phases, any phase thereof) containing no material improvements other than infrastructure improvements such as roads, utility feeder lines and the like.
          "United States" means the United States of America, including the fifty states and the District of Columbia.
          "Unsecured Debt" means the amount of Indebtedness (excluding Intracompany Indebtedness) for borrowed money of General Partner, Borrower, any Financing Partnership, any Preferred Stock Subsidiary or Joint Venture Subsidiary and which is not Secured Debt, including, without limitation, the amount of all then outstanding Loans.
          "Unsecured Interest Expense" means, as of any date of determination, for the previous four (4) Fiscal Quarters, the Interest Expense paid, accrued or capitalized on Unsecured Debt, provided, however, in the case of any Preferred Stock Subsidiary, Joint Venture Subsidiary or Consolidated Subsidiary only an amount equal to the Borrower's Share of any such Interest Expense on Unsecured Debt of such entity shall be included in Unsecured Interest Expense.
          "Unused Commitments" means an amount equal to all unadvanced funds (other than unadvanced funds in connection with any construction loan) which any third party is obligated to advance to Borrower or another Person or otherwise pursuant to any loan document, written instrument or otherwise.
          "Yen Bank" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.22.
          SECTION 1.2. . Unless otherwise specified herein, all accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted, all accounting determinations hereunder shall be made, and all financial statements required to be delivered hereunder shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a basis consistent (except for changes concurred in by the Borrower's independent public accountants) with the most recent audited consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries delivered to the Administrative Agent; provided that for purposes of references to the financial results and information of "General Partner, on a consolidated basis," General Partner shall be deemed to own one hundred percent (100%) of the partnership interests in Borrower; and provided further that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower wishes
Accounting Terms and Determinations
 
to amend any covenant in Article V to eliminate the effect of any change in GAAP on the operation of such covenant (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Majority Banks wish to amend Article V for such purpose), then the Borrower's compliance with such covenant shall be determined on the basis of GAAP in effect immediately before the relevant change in GAAP became effective, until either such notice is withdrawn or such covenant is amended in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower and the Majority Banks.
          SECTION 1.3. . The term "Borrowing" denotes the aggregation of Loans of one or more Banks to be made to the Borrower pursuant to Article 2 on the same date, all of which Loans are of the same type (subject to Article 8) and, except in the case of Base Rate Loans, have the same initial Interest Period. Borrowings are classified for purposes of this Agreement either by reference to the pricing of Loans comprising such Borrowing (e.g., a "Fixed Rate Borrowing" is a Euro-Dollar Borrowing; and a "Euro-Dollar Borrowing" is a Borrowing comprised of Euro-Dollar Loans; and an "Alternate Currency Borrowing" is a Borrowing comprised of Euro-Dollar Loans or TIBOR Loans denominated in an Alternate Currency).
Types of Borrowings
          SECTION 2.1. . Each Bank severally agrees, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, to make Loans in Dollars or Alternate Currency, as applicable, to the Borrower and the Initial Qualified Borrowers, as applicable, pursuant to this Article on the Effective Date in an amount equal to its Commitment (except that it is understood and agreed that Loans in Alternate Currencies may be funded on the following Business Day). The initial Borrowing shall be made on the Effective Date and shall be made from the several Banks ratably in proportion to their respective Commitments, except that the Alternate Currency Loans shall be funded by each Bank as indicated on the signature pages hereto. Subject to the provisions of Section 9.19 hereof, in no event shall the aggregate amount of Loans in Dollars outstanding at any time, exceed $345,000,000 (as adjusted pursuant to Section 9.19, the "") less the Dollar Equivalent Amount of any Loans denominated in Alternate Currencies as of the date that the amount in Euros and/or Yen of such Loans was determined by the Administrative Agent. For the avoidance of doubt, Loans denominated in Alternate Currencies shall not be marked to market and accordingly, the Dollar Equivalent Amount of such Loans from time to time may cause the Dollar Equivalent Amount of all Loans to exceed the Facility Amount.. In the event that the Facility Amount shall be increased pursuant to Section 9.19, each Borrowing thereafter shall be in an aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000, or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (except that any such Borrowing may be in the aggregate amount of the Commitments then available to be borrowed). Any amounts repaid may not be reborrowed.
Commitments to Lend
Facility Amount
          SECTION 2.2. . With respect to any Borrowing, the Borrower shall give Administrative Agent notice not later than 1:00 P.M. (New York City or London time, as applicable) (x) the Business Day prior to each Base Rate Borrowing, or (y) the third (3) Euro-Dollar Business Day before each Euro-Dollar Borrowing denominated in Dollars,
Notice of Borrowing
rd
 
or (z) the fourth (4) Euro-Dollar Business Day before each Euro-Dollar Borrowing or TIBOR Borrowing denominated in an Alternate Currency, specifying:
th
               (i) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day in the case of a Base Rate Borrowing or a Euro-Dollar Business Day in the case of a Euro-Dollar Borrowing,
               (ii) the aggregate amount of such Borrowing,
               (iii) whether the Loans comprising such Borrowing are to be Base Rate Loans or Euro-Dollar Loans or TIBOR Loans, and, if Euro-Dollar Loans are being requested other than in Dollars, the type and amount of the Alternate Currency being requested,
               (iv) in the case of a Euro-Dollar Borrowing or TIBOR Borrowing, the duration of the Interest Period applicable thereto, subject to the provisions of the definition of Interest Period,
               (v) if such Borrowing is to be made by a Qualified Borrower, the identity of the Qualified Borrower,
               (vi) payment instructions for delivery of such Borrowing; and
               (vii) certify that no Default or Event of Default has occurred or is continuing.
          SECTION 2.3. .
Intentionally Omitted
          SECTION 2.4. .
Intentionally Omitted
          SECTION 2.5. .
Notice to Banks; Funding of Loans
               (a) Upon receipt of a Notice of Borrowing from Borrower in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof, the Administrative Agent shall, on the date such Notice of Borrowing is received by the Administrative Agent, notify each applicable Bank of the contents thereof and of such Bank's share of such Borrowing, of the interest rate determined pursuant thereto and the Interest Period(s) (if different from those requested by the Borrower) and such Notice of Borrowing shall not thereafter be revocable by the Borrower, unless Borrower shall pay any applicable expenses pursuant to Section 2.14.
               (b) Not later than 2:00 p.m. (New York City time or, in the case of any Alternate Currency Borrowing, local time to the principal financial center of the Alternate Currency in question) on the date of each Borrowing as indicated in the applicable Notice of Borrowing, each Bank shall (except as provided in subsection (d) of this Section) make available its share of such Borrowing in Federal funds or the applicable Alternate Currency immediately available in New York, New York(or, in the case of any Alternate Currency Borrowing, the principal financial center of the Alternate Currency in question), to the applicable Administrative
 
Agent at its address referred to in Section 9.1. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, with respect to the initial Borrowing hereunder, such amounts shall be funded into an escrow account with the Administrative Agent, in accordance with the procedures established by the Administrative Agent.
               (c) Intentionally Omitted.
               (d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Bank prior to the date of any Borrowing that such Bank will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Bank's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Bank has made such share available to the Administrative Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with this Section 2.5 and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, but shall not be obligated to, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount on behalf of such Bank. If and to the extent that such Bank shall not have so made such share available to the Administrative Agent, such Bank agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Administrative Agent, at the rate of interest applicable to such Borrowing hereunder. If such Bank shall repay to the Administrative Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Bank's Loan included in such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement. If such Bank shall not pay to Administrative Agent such corresponding amount after reasonable attempts are made by Administrative Agent to collect such amounts from such Bank, Borrower agrees to repay, or cause the applicable Qualified Borrower to repay, to Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amounts together with interest thereto, for each day from the date such amount is made available to Borrower or such Qualified Borrower, as the case may be, until the date such amount is repaid to Administrative Agent, at the interest rate applicable thereto one (1) Business Day after demand. Nothing contained in this Section 2.5(d) shall be deemed to reduce the Commitment of any Bank or in any way affect the rights of Borrower with respect to any defaulting Bank or Administrative Agent. The failure of any Bank to make available to the Administrative Agent such Bank's share of any Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.5(b) hereof shall not relieve any other Bank of its obligations to fund its Commitment, in accordance with the provisions hereof.
               (e) Subject to the provisions hereof, the Administrative Agent shall make available each Borrowing to Borrower or the applicable Qualified Borrower in Federal funds or the applicable Alternate Currency immediately available in accordance with, and on the date set forth in, the applicable Notice of Borrowing.
          SECTION 2.6. .
Notes
               (a) The Loans of each Bank shall be evidenced by a single Note made by each Borrower (including any Qualified Borrower) payable to the order of such Bank for the account of its Applicable Lending Office.
               (b) Each Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, request that its Loans of a particular type be evidenced by a separate Note in an amount
 
equal to the aggregate unpaid principal amount of such Loans. Any additional costs incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower or the Banks in connection with preparing such a Note shall be at the sole cost and expense of the Bank requesting such Note. In the event any Loans evidenced by such a Note are paid in full prior to the Maturity Date, any such Bank shall return such Note to Borrower. Each such Note shall be in substantially the form of Exhibit A hereto with appropriate modifications to reflect the fact that it evidences solely Loans of the relevant type. Upon the execution and delivery of any such Note, any existing Note payable to such Bank shall be replaced or modified accordingly. Each reference in this Agreement to the "Note" of such Bank shall be deemed to refer to and include any or all of such Notes, as the context may require.
               (c) Upon receipt of each Bank's Note pursuant to Section 3.1(a), the Administrative Agent shall forward such Note to such Bank. Each Bank shall record the date, amount, type and maturity of each Loan made by it and the date and amount of each payment of principal made by the Borrower or Qualified Borrower, as the case may be, with respect thereto, and may, if such Bank so elects in connection with any transfer or enforcement of its Note, endorse on the appropriate schedule appropriate notations to evidence the foregoing information with respect to each such Loan then outstanding; provided that the failure of any Bank to make any such recordation or endorsement shall not affect the obligations of the Borrower or applicable Qualified Borrower hereunder or under the Notes. Each Bank is hereby irrevocably authorized by the Borrower and each Qualified Borrower so to endorse its Note and to attach to and make a part of its Note a continuation of any such schedule as and when required.
               (d) The Loans shall mature, and the principal amount thereof shall be due and payable, on the Maturity Date.
               (e) There shall be no more than five (5) Euro-Dollar and TIBOR Groups of Loans outstanding at any one time.
          SECTION 2.7. .
Method of Electing Interest Rates
               (a) The Loans included in each Borrowing shall bear interest initially at the type of rate specified by the Borrower or Qualified Borrower, as the case may be, in the applicable Notice of Borrowing. Thereafter, the Borrower or the applicable Qualified Borrower (or the Borrower on behalf of the Qualified Borrower) may from time to time elect to change or continue the type of interest rate borne by each Group of Loans (subject in each case to the provisions of Article VIII), as follows:
               (i) if such Loans are Base Rate Loans, the Borrower may elect to convert all or any portion of such Loans to Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loans as of any Euro-Dollar Business Day;
               (ii) if such Loans are Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loans, the Borrower or the applicable Qualified Borrower (or the Borrower on behalf of the Qualified Borrower) may elect to convert all or any portion of such Loans to Base Rate Loans (but only if such Loans are Dollar denominated) and/or elect to continue all or any portion of such Loans as Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loans for an
 
additional Interest Period or additional Interest Periods, in each case effective on the last day of the then current Interest Period applicable to such Loans, or on such other date designated by Borrower or the applicable Qualified Borrower (or the Borrower on behalf of the applicable Qualified Borrower) in the Notice of Interest Rate Election provided Borrower or the applicable Qualified Borrower (or the Borrower on behalf of the applicable Qualified Borrower) shall pay any losses pursuant to Section 2.14.
Each such election shall be made by delivering a notice (a "") to the Administrative Agent at least three (3) Euro-Dollar Business Days (no later than 11:00 am London time in the case of Euro-denominated Loans) prior to, but excluding, the effective date of the conversion or continuation selected in such notice. A Notice of Interest Rate Election may, if it so specifies, apply to only a portion of the aggregate principal amount of the relevant Group of Loans; provided that (i) such portion is allocated ratably among the Loans comprising such Group, (ii) the portion to which such Notice applies, and the remaining portion to which it does not apply, are each in the amount of $5,000,000 (or, with respect to Loans denominated in an Alternate Currency only, the Dollar Equivalent Amount of $3,000,000) or any larger multiple of $1,000,000, (iii) there shall be no more than five (5) Euro-Dollar and TIBOR Groups of Loans outstanding at any time, (iv) no Loan may be continued as, or converted into, a Euro-Dollar Loan when any Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, and (v) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
Notice of Interest Rate Election
               (b) Each Notice of Interest Rate Election shall specify:
               (i) the Group of Loans (or portion thereof) to which such notice applies;
               (ii) the date on which the conversion or continuation selected in such notice is to be effective, which shall comply with the applicable clause of subsection (a) above;
               (iii) if the Loans comprising such Group are to be converted, the new type of Loans and, if such new Loans are Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loans, the duration of the initial Interest Period applicable thereto; and
               (iv) if such Loans are to be continued as Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loans for an additional Interest Period, the duration of such additional Interest Period.
Each Interest Period specified in a Notice of Interest Rate Election shall comply with the provisions of the definition of Interest Period.
               (c) Upon receipt of a Notice of Interest Rate Election from the Borrower or Qualified Borrower pursuant to subsection (a) above, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Bank the same day as it receives such Notice of Interest Rate Election of the contents thereof, the interest rates determined pursuant thereto and the Interest Periods (if different from those requested by the Borrower or Qualified Borrower) and such notice shall not thereafter be revocable by the Borrower or Qualified Borrower. If the Borrower or Qualified
 
Borrower fails to deliver a timely Notice of Interest Rate Election to the Administrative Agent for any Group of Euro-Dollar Loans, such Loans in Dollars shall be converted into Base Rate Loans and such Loans denominated in an Alternate Currency shall continue as Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loans, as applicable, with a one (1) month Interest Period.
          SECTION 2.8. .
Interest Rates
               (a) Each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof, for each day from the date such Loan is made until the date it is repaid or converted into a Euro-Dollar Loan pursuant to Section 2.7, at a rate per annum equal to sum of the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin for Base Rate Loans for such day.
               (b) Each Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof, for each day during the Interest Period applicable thereto, at a rate per annum equal to the sum of the Applicable Margin for Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loans for such day plus the Adjusted Interbank Offered Rate or, for any TIBOR Loan, TIBOR, applicable to such Interest Period.
               (c) Intentionally Omitted.
               (d) In the event that, and for so long as, any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the outstanding principal amount of the Loans, and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, overdue interest in respect of all Loans, shall bear interest at the annual rate equal to the sum of the Base Rate and two percent (2%) (the "Default Rate").
               (e) The Administrative Agent shall determine each interest rate applicable to the Loans hereunder. The Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Banks of each rate of interest so determined, and its determination thereof shall be conclusive in the absence of demonstrable error.
               (f) Intentionally Omitted.
               (g) Interest on all Loans bearing interest at the Base Rate shall be payable on the first Business Day of each calendar month. Interest on all Loans bearing interest based on the Interbank Offered Rate or TIBOR shall be payable on the last Euro-Dollar Business Day of the applicable Interest Period, but no less frequently than every three months determined on the basis of the first (1) day of the Interest Period applicable to the Loan in question.
st
          SECTION 2.9. .
Fees
               (a) . All fees set forth in this Agreement shall be deemed to have been earned on the date payment is due in accordance with the provisions hereof and shall be non-refundable. The obligation of the Borrower to pay such fees in accordance with the provisions hereof shall be binding upon the Borrower and shall inure to the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Banks regardless of whether any Loans are actually made.
Fees Non-Refundable
          SECTION 2.10. . The term (the "Term") of the Commitments (and each Bank's obligations to make Loans) shall terminate and expire on the Maturity Date.
Maturity Date
 
Upon the date of the termination of the Term, any Loans then outstanding (together with accrued interest thereon and all other Obligations) shall be due and payable on such date.
          SECTION 2.11. .
Optional Prepayments
               (a) The Borrower may, upon at least one (1) Business Day's notice to the Administrative Agent, prepay any Group of Base Rate Loans bearing interest at the Base Rate pursuant to Section 8.1, in whole at any time, or from time to time in part in amounts aggregating One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) or more, by paying the principal amount to be prepaid together with accrued interest thereon to the date of prepayment. Each such optional prepayment shall be applied to prepay ratably the Loans of the several Banks included in such Group or Borrowing.
               (b) The Borrower may, upon at least three (3) Euro-Dollar Business Days' notice to the Administrative Agent, pay all or any portion of any Euro-Dollar Loan as of the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto. The Borrower may, upon at least five (5) Euro-Dollar Business Days' notice to the Administrative Agent, pay all or any portion of any TIBOR Loan as of the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto. Except as provided in Article 8 and except with respect to any Euro-Dollar Loan which has been converted to a Base Rate Loan pursuant to Section 2.19, 8.2, 8.3 or 8.4 hereof, the Borrower may not prepay all or any portion of the principal amount of any Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loan prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto unless the Borrower shall also pay any applicable expenses pursuant to Section 2.14. Any such prepayment shall be given on or prior to the third (3) Euro-Dollar Business Day prior to, but excluding, the date of prepayment to the Administrative Agent. Each such optional prepayment shall be in the amounts set forth in Section 2.11(a) above and shall be applied to prepay ratably the Loans of the Banks included in any Group of Euro-Dollar Loans or Group of TIBOR Loans, except that any Euro-Dollar Loan which has been converted to a Base Rate Loan pursuant to Section 2.19, 8.2, 8.3 or 8.4 hereof may be prepaid without ratable payment of the other Loans in such Group of Loans which have not been so converted.
rd
               (c) The Borrower may at any time and from time to time cancel all or any part of the Commitments by the delivery to the Administrative Agent of a notice of cancellation within the applicable time periods set forth in Sections 2.11(a) and (b) if there are Loans then outstanding or, if there are no Loans outstanding at such time as to which the Commitments with respect thereto are being canceled, upon at least three (3) Business Day's notice to the Administrative Agent, whereupon, in either event, all or such portion of the Commitments, as applicable, shall terminate as to the applicable Banks, pro rata on the date set forth in such notice of cancellation, and, if there are any Loans then outstanding, Borrower shall prepay, as applicable, all or such portion of Loans outstanding on such date in accordance with the requirements of Section 2.11(a) and (b).
               (d) Any amounts so prepaid pursuant to Section 2.11 (a) or (b) may not be reborrowed. In the event Borrower elects to cancel all or any portion of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.11(c) hereof, such amounts may not be reborrowed.
          SECTION 2.12. .
Intentionally Omitted
 
          SECTION 2.13. .
General Provisions as to Payments
               (a) The Borrower or Qualified Borrower, as the case may be, shall make each payment of the principal of and interest on the Loans and fees hereunder, by initiating a wire transfer not later than 1:00 P.M. (New York City or local time to the principal financial center of the Alternate Currency in question, as applicable) on the date when due, of Federal or other funds immediately available in New York, New York or, in the case of any Alternate Currency, the principal financial center of the Alternate Currency in question, to the Administrative Agent at its address referred to in Section 9.1, and the Borrower shall deliver a federal reference number evidencing such wire to Administrative Agent as soon as possible thereafter on the date when due. The Administrative Agent will promptly (and in any event within one (1) Business Day after receipt thereof distribute to each Bank its ratable share of each such payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of the Banks. If and to the extent that the Administrative Agent shall receive any such payment for the account of the Banks on or before 11:00 A.M. (New York City or local time to the principal financial center of the Alternate Currency in question, as applicable) on any Business Day (or Euro-Dollar Business Day, as applicable), and Administrative Agent shall not have distributed to any Bank its applicable share of such payment on such day, Administrative Agent shall distribute such amount to such Bank together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount should have been distributed to such Bank until the date Administrative Agent distributes such amount to such Bank, at the Federal Funds Rate. Whenever any payment of principal of, or interest on the Base Rate Loans or of fees shall be due on a day which is not a Business Day, the date for payment thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day. Whenever any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Euro-Dollar Loans shall be due on a day which is not a Euro-Dollar Business Day, the date for payment thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Euro-Dollar Business Day unless such Euro-Dollar Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case the date for payment thereof shall be the next preceding Euro-Dollar Business Day. If the date for any payment of principal is extended by operation of law or otherwise, interest thereon shall be payable for such extended time.
               (b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower or Qualified Borrower, as the case may be, prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Banks hereunder that the Borrower or Qualified Borrower, as the case may be, will not make such payment in full, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent on such date and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Bank on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Bank. If and to the extent that the Borrower or Qualified Borrower, as the case may be, shall not have so made such payment, each Bank shall repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Bank together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Bank until the date such Bank repays such amount to the Administrative Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate.
           SECTION 2.14. . If the Borrower or Qualified Borrower, as the case may be, makes any payment of principal with respect to any Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loan (pursuant to Article II, VI or VIII or otherwise) on any day other than the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, or if the Borrower or Qualified Borrower, as the case may be, fails to
Funding Losses
 
borrow any Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loans after notice has been given to any Bank in accordance with Section 2.5(a) or 2.4(f), as applicable, or if Borrower or Qualified Borrower, as the case may be, shall deliver a Notice of Interest Rate Election specifying that a Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loan shall be converted on a date other than the first (1st) day of the then current Interest Period applicable thereto, the Borrower shall reimburse each Bank within 15 days after certification of such Bank of such loss or expense (which shall be delivered by each such Bank to Administrative Agent for delivery to Borrower) for any resulting loss or expense incurred by it (or by an existing Participant in the related Loan), including, without limitation, any loss incurred in obtaining, liquidating or employing deposits from third parties, but excluding loss of margin for the period after any such payment or failure to borrow, provided that such Bank shall have delivered to Administrative Agent and Administrative Agent shall have delivered to the Borrower a certification as to the amount of such loss or expense, which certification shall set forth in reasonable detail the basis for and calculation of such loss or expense and shall be conclusive in the absence of demonstrable error.
          SECTION 2.15. . Interest based on the Prime Rate hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or, in the case of interest based on the Prime Rate only, 366 days in a leap year) and paid for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). All other interest and fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and paid for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
Computation of Interest and Fees
          SECTION 2.16. . The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loans for general corporate purposes, including, without limitation, the repayment of the Existing Credit Agreement and for general working capital needs of the Borrower.
Use of Proceeds
          SECTION 2.17. .
Special Provisions Regarding Alternate Currency Loans
               (a) Upon the occurrence of a Sharing Event, automatically (and without the taking of any action) (x) all then outstanding Euro-Dollar Loans denominated in an Alternate Currency shall be automatically converted into Base Rate Loans denominated in Dollars (in an amount equal to the Dollar Equivalent Amount of the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Euro-Dollar Loans on the date such Sharing Event first occurred, which Loans denominated in Dollars (i) shall thereafter continue to be deemed to be Base Rate Loans and (ii) unless the Sharing Event resulted solely from a termination of the Commitments, shall be immediately due and payable on the date such Sharing Event has occurred) and (y) unless the Sharing Event resulted solely from a termination of the Commitments, all accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts owing with respect to such Loans shall be immediately due and payable in Dollars, taking the Dollar Equivalent Amount of such accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts.
               (b) Upon the occurrence of a Sharing Event all amounts from time to time accruing with respect to, and all amounts from time to time payable on account of, any outstanding Euro-Dollar Loans initially denominated in an Alternate Currency (including, without limitation, any interest and other amounts which were accrued but unpaid on the date of such purchase) shall be payable in Dollars as if such Euro-Dollar Loans had originally been made in Dollars.
 
          SECTION 2.18. .
Addition of Qualified Borrowers; Release of Qualified Borrowers
               (a) If after the Closing Date, Borrower desires to cause another Subsidiary which otherwise satisfies the definition of a Qualified Borrower hereunder to become a Qualified Borrower hereunder, then Borrower shall so notify the Administrative Agent and, upon satisfaction of the following conditions, such Subsidiary shall become a Qualified Borrower under this Agreement: (i) such Subsidiary shall duly execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent applicable Qualified Borrower Joinder Documents and (ii) such Subsidiary shall satisfy all of the conditions with respect thereto set forth in the Qualified Borrower Joinder Agreement. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Bank upon a Subsidiary's addition as a Qualified Borrower hereunder. Each such Qualified Borrower shall remain a Qualified Borrower hereunder until released as provided in Section 2.18(b) below.
               (b) At such time as no Loan is outstanding to any Qualified Borrower, at the option of such Qualified Borrower or Borrower and upon notice to Administrative Agent, such Qualified Borrower shall be released as a Qualified Borrower under the Loan Documents, and the Notes or Qualified Borrower Undertakings, as applicable, executed and delivered by such Qualified Borrower shall be returned to such Qualified Borrower.
          SECTION 3.1. . The closing hereunder shall occur on the date when each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in writing by the Administrative Agent and the Banks), each document to be dated the Closing Date unless otherwise indicated:
Closing
               (a) the Borrower and any Qualified Borrower as of the Closing Date shall have executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent a Note for the account of each Bank dated on or before the Closing Date complying with the provisions of Section 2.6;
               (b) the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and each of the Banks shall have executed and delivered to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent a duly executed original of this Agreement;
               (c) Guarantor shall have executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent a duly executed original of the Guaranty and the Qualified Borrower Guaranty, if applicable;
               (d) the Administrative Agent shall have received an opinion of DLA Piper LLP (US), counsel for the Borrower and Guarantor, acceptable to the Administrative Agent, the Banks and their counsel;
               (e) the Administrative Agent shall have received all documents the Administrative Agent may reasonably request relating to the existence of the Borrower, each Qualified Borrower as of the Closing Date, and General Partner, the authority for and the validity of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, the incumbency of officers executing this
 
Agreement and the other Loan Documents and any other matters relevant hereto, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent. Such documentation shall include, without limitation, the agreement of limited partnership of the Borrower, as well as the certificate of limited partnership of the Borrower, both as amended, modified or supplemented to the Closing Date, certified to be true, correct and complete by a senior officer of the Borrower as of a date not more than ten (10) days prior to the Closing Date, together with a certificate of existence as to the Borrower from the Secretary of State (or the equivalent thereof) of Delaware, to be dated not more than thirty (30) days prior to the Closing Date, as well as the articles of incorporation of General Partner, as amended, modified or supplemented to the Closing Date, certified to be true, correct and complete by a senior officer of General Partner as of a date not more than ten (10) days prior to the Closing Date, together with a good standing certificate as to General Partner from the Secretary of State (or the equivalent thereof) of Maryland, to be dated not more than thirty (30) days prior to the Closing Date and correlative documentation for each Qualified Borrower as of the Closing Date;
               (f) the Borrower, each Qualified Borrower as of the Closing Date and General Partner each shall have executed a solvency certificate acceptable to the Administrative Agent;
               (g) the Administrative Agent shall have received all certificates, agreements and other documents and papers referred to in this Section 3.1 and the Notice of Borrowing referred to in Section 3.2, if applicable, unless otherwise specified, in sufficient counterparts, satisfactory in form and substance to the Administrative Agent in their sole discretion;
               (h) the Borrower shall have taken all actions required to authorize the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and the performance thereof by the Borrower, General Partner shall have taken all actions required to authorize the execution and delivery of the Guaranty and the other Loan Documents and the performance thereof by General Partner, and each Qualified Borrower as of the Closing Date;
               (i) the Banks shall be satisfied that neither the Borrower, General Partner nor any Consolidated Subsidiary is subject to any present or contingent environmental liability which could have a Material Adverse Effect and the Borrower shall have delivered a certificate so stating;
               (j) the Administrative Agent shall have received, for its and any other Bank's account, all fees due and payable pursuant to Section 2.9 hereof on or before the Closing Date, and the reasonable fees and expenses accrued through the Closing Date of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, if required by such firm and if such firm has delivered an invoice in reasonable detail of such fees and expenses in sufficient time for Borrower to approve and process the same, shall have been paid to Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP;
               (k) the Borrower shall have delivered copies of all consents, licenses and approvals, if any, required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower, each Qualified Borrower, as of the Closing Date and General Partner, and the
 
validity and enforceability, of the Loan Documents, or in connection with any of the transactions contemplated thereby, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect;
               (l) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred;
               (m) the Borrower shall have delivered a certificate in form acceptable to Administrative Agent showing compliance with the requirements of Section 5.8 as of the Closing Date; and
               (n) all funds necessary to allow the Borrower to terminate the Existing Credit Agreement and repay the same in full shall be on deposit, in escrow, with the Administrative Agent and the Administrative Agent shall have received written instructions from the Borrower to immediately disburse the same in full repayment thereof, together with written confirmation from the Borrower that the Existing Credit Agreement will thereupon be terminated.
          SECTION 3.2. . The obligation of any Bank to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Borrowings
               (a) receipt by the Administrative Agent of a Notice of Borrowing as required by Section 2.2;
               (b) immediately after such Borrowing, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Loans will not exceed the aggregate amount of the Commitments;
               (c) immediately before and after such Borrowing, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing both before and after giving effect to the making of such Loans;
               (d) the representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in this Agreement (other than representations and warranties which expressly speak as of a different date) shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing both before and after giving effect to the making of such Loans;
               (e) no law or regulation shall have been adopted, no order, judgment or decree of any governmental authority shall have been issued, and no litigation shall be pending, which does or seeks to enjoin, prohibit or restrain, the making or repayment of the Loans or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; and
               (f) no event, act or condition shall have occurred after the Closing Date which, in the reasonable judgment of the Administrative Agent or the Majority Banks, as the case may be, has had or is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Each Borrowing hereunder shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date of such Borrowing as to the facts specified in clauses (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) (to the extent that Borrower is or should have been aware of any Material Adverse Effect) of this Section, except as otherwise disclosed in writing by Borrower to the Banks. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, no Borrowing shall be permitted if such Borrowing would cause
 
Borrower to fail to be in compliance with any of the covenants contained in this Agreement or in any of the other Loan Documents.
          In order to induce the Administrative Agent and each of the other Banks which is or may become a party to this Agreement to make the Loans, the Borrower makes the following representations and warranties as of the Closing Date. Such representations and warranties shall survive the effectiveness of this Agreement, the execution and delivery of the other Loan Documents and the making of the Loans.
          SECTION 4.1. . The Borrower is a limited partnership, duly formed and validly existing as a limited partnership under the laws of the State of Delaware and has all powers and all material governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to own its property and assets and carry on its business as now conducted or as it presently proposes to conduct and has been duly qualified and is in good standing in every jurisdiction in which the failure to be so qualified and/or in good standing is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. General Partner is a corporation, duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Maryland and has all powers and all material governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to own its property and assets and carry on its business as now conducted or as it presently proposes to conduct and has been duly qualified and is in good standing in every jurisdiction in which the failure to be so qualified and/or in good standing is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. Each Qualified Borrower is a duly formed and validly existing juridical entity under the laws of its jurisdiction of formation and has all powers and all material governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to own its property and assets and carry on its business as now conducted or as it presently proposes to conduct and has been duly qualified and is in good standing in every jurisdiction in which the failure to be so qualified and/or in good standing is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Existence and Power
          SECTION 4.2. . The Borrower and each Qualified Borrower has the requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and carry out the terms and provisions of each of the Loan Documents to which it is a party and has taken all necessary action, if any, to authorize the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower or such Qualified Borrower and the performance by the Borrower or such Qualified Borrower of the Loan Documents to which it is a party. The Borrower, each Qualified Borrower and General Partner each have duly executed and delivered each Loan Document to which it is a party in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and each such Loan Document constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, such Qualified Borrower and General Partner, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable insolvency, bankruptcy or other laws affecting creditors rights generally, or general principles of equity, whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law. General Partner has the
Power and Authority
 
power and authority to execute, deliver and carry out the terms and provisions of each of the Loan Documents to which it is a party and has taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of such Loan Documents. General Partner has the power and authority to execute, deliver and carry out the terms and provisions of each of the Loan Documents on behalf of the Borrower to which the Borrower is a party and has taken all necessary action to authorize the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower and the performance by the Borrower of such Loan Documents.
          SECTION 4.3. . (a) Neither the execution, delivery or performance by or on behalf of the Borrower of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, nor compliance by the Borrower with the terms and provisions thereof nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated by such Loan Documents, (i) will materially contravene any applicable provision of any law, statute, rule, regulation, order, writ, injunction or decree of any court or governmental instrumentality, (ii) will materially conflict with or result in any breach of, any of the terms, covenants, conditions or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of (or the obligation to create or impose) any Lien upon any of the property or assets of the Borrower or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries pursuant to the terms of any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, or other agreement or other instrument to which the Borrower (or of any partnership of which the Borrower is a partner) or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of its property or assets is bound or to which it is subject (except for such breaches and defaults under loan agreements which the lenders thereunder have agreed to forbear pursuant to valid forbearance agreements), or (iii) will cause a material default by the Borrower under any organizational document of any Person in which the Borrower has an interest, or cause a material default under the Borrower's agreement or certificate of limited partnership, the consequences of which conflict, breach or default would have a Material Adverse Effect, or result in or require the creation or imposition of any Lien whatsoever upon any Property (except as contemplated herein).
No Violation
               (b) Neither the execution, delivery or performance by General Partner of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, nor compliance by General Partner with the terms and provisions thereof nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated by such Loan Documents, (i) will materially contravene any applicable provision of any law, statute, rule, regulation, order, writ, injunction or decree of any court or governmental instrumentality, (ii) will materially conflict with or result in any breach of, any of the terms, covenants, conditions or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of (or the obligation to create or impose) any Lien upon any of the property or assets of General Partner or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries pursuant to the terms of any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, or other agreement or other instrument to which General Partner (or of any partnership of which General Partner is a partner) or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of its property or assets is bound or to which it is subject (except for such breaches and defaults under loan agreements which the lenders thereunder have agreed to forbear pursuant to valid forbearance agreements), or (iii) will cause a material default by General Partner under any organizational document of any Person in which General Partner has an interest, the consequences of which conflict, breach or default would have a Material Adverse Effect, or result in or require the creation or imposition of any Lien whatsoever upon any Property (except as contemplated herein).
               (c) Neither the execution, delivery or performance by any Qualified Borrower of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, nor compliance by such Qualified Borrower with the terms and provisions thereof nor the consummation of the transactions
 
contemplated by such Loan Documents, (i) will materially contravene any applicable provision of any law, statute, rule, regulation, order, writ, injunction or decree of any court or governmental instrumentality, (ii) will materially conflict with or result in any breach of, any of the terms, covenants, conditions or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of (or the obligation to create or impose) any Lien upon any of the property or assets of such Qualified Borrower pursuant to the terms of any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, or other agreement or other instrument to which such Qualified Borrower (or of any partnership of which such Qualified Borrower is a partner) is a party or by which it or any of its property or assets is bound or to which it is subject (except for such breaches and defaults under loan agreements which the lenders thereunder have agreed to forbear pursuant to valid forbearance agreements), or (iii) will cause a material default by such Qualified Borrower under any organizational document of any Person in which such Qualified Borrower has an interest, the consequences of which conflict, breach or default would have a Material Adverse Effect, or result in or require the creation or imposition of any Lien whatsoever upon any Property (except as contemplated herein).
          SECTION 4.4. . (a) The consolidated balance sheet of Borrower and their Consolidated Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations and cash flows of General Partner for the fiscal year then ended, reported on by PriceWaterhouseCoopers fairly present, in conformity with GAAP, the consolidated financial position of Borrower, General Partner and their Consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date and the consolidated results of operations and cash flows for such fiscal quarter.
Financial Information
               (b) Since December 31, 2008, (i) except as may have been disclosed in writing to the Banks, nothing has occurred having a Material Adverse Effect, and (ii) except as set forth on Schedule 4.4(b), neither the Borrower nor General Partner has incurred any material indebtedness or guaranty on or before the Closing Date.
          SECTION 4.5. . Except as previously disclosed by the Borrower in writing to the Banks, there is no action, suit or proceeding pending against, or to the knowledge of the Borrower threatened against or affecting, (i) the Borrower, any Qualified Borrower, General Partner or any of their Consolidated Subsidiaries, (ii) the Loan Documents or any of the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents or (iii) any of their assets, before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official in which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse decision which could, individually, or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect or which in any manner draws into question the validity of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents. As of the Closing Date, no such action, suit or proceeding exists.
Litigation
          SECTION 4.6. .
Intentionally Omitted
          SECTION 4.7. . The Borrower conducts reviews of the effect of Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries when necessary in the course of which it identifies and evaluates associated liabilities and costs (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up or closure of properties presently owned, any capital or operating expenditures required to achieve or maintain compliance with environmental protection standards imposed by law or as a condition of any license, permit or contract, any
Environmental
 
related constraints on operating activities, and any actual or potential liabilities to third parties, including, without limitation, employees, and any related costs and expenses). On the basis of this review, the Borrower has reasonably concluded that such associated liabilities and costs, including, without limitation, the costs of compliance with Environmental Laws, are unlikely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
          SECTION 4.8. . The Borrower, each Qualified Borrower, the General Partner and their Consolidated Subsidiaries have filed all United States Federal income tax returns and all other material tax returns which are required to be filed by them and have paid all taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by the Borrower, any Qualified Borrower, the General Partner or any Consolidated Subsidiary, except such taxes, if any, as are reserved against in accordance with GAAP, such taxes as are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings or such taxes, the failure to make payment of which when due and payable will not have, in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Borrower, General Partner and their Consolidated Subsidiaries in respect of taxes or other governmental charges are, in the opinion of the Borrower, adequate.
Taxes
          SECTION 4.9. . All information heretofore furnished by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Bank for purposes of or in connection with this Agreement or any transaction contemplated hereby or thereby is true and accurate in all material respects on the date as of which such information is stated or certified. The Borrower has disclosed to the Administrative Agent, in writing any and all facts which have or may have (to the extent the Borrower can now reasonably foresee) a Material Adverse Effect.
Full Disclosure
          SECTION 4.10. . On the Closing Date and after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents occurring on the Closing Date, the Borrower, each Qualified Borrower and General Partner will be Solvent.
Solvency
          SECTION 4.11. . All proceeds of the Loans will be used by the Borrower or the applicable Qualified Borrower only in accordance with the provisions hereof. Neither the making of any Loan nor the use of the proceeds thereof will violate or be inconsistent with the provisions of regulations T, U, or X of the Federal Reserve Board.
Use of Proceeds
          SECTION 4.12. . No order, consent, approval, license, authorization, or validation of, or filing, recording or registration with, or exemption by, any governmental or public body or authority, or any subdivision thereof, is required to authorize, or is required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of any Loan Document or the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated thereby other than those that have already been duly made or obtained and remain in full force and effect or those which, if not made or obtained, would not have a Material Adverse Effect;
Governmental Approvals
          SECTION 4.13. . Neither the Borrower, any Qualified Borrower, General Partner nor any Consolidated Subsidiary (other than AMB Capital Partners, LLC) is (x) an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, (y) a "holding company" or a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company" or an "affiliate" of either a "holding company" or a "subsidiary company" within the
Investment Company Act; Public Utility Holding Company Act
 
meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, or (z) subject to any other federal or state law or regulation which purports to restrict or regulate its ability to borrow money.
          SECTION 4.14. . As of the Closing Date, the principal office, chief executive office and principal place of business of the Borrower and Guarantor is Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111.
Principal Offices
          SECTION 4.15. . General Partner is qualified and General Partner intends to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Code.
REIT Status
          SECTION 4.16. . The Borrower and each Qualified Borrower has obtained and holds in full force and effect all patents, trademarks, servicemarks, trade names, copyrights and other such rights, free from burdensome restrictions, which are necessary for the operation of its business as presently conducted, the impairment of which is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Patents, Trademarks, etc
          SECTION 4.17. . As of the Closing Date, there are no final, non-appealable judgments or decrees in an aggregate amount of Thirty-Five Million Dollars ($35,000,000) or more entered by a court or courts of competent jurisdiction against General Partner or the Borrower or, to the extent such judgment would be recourse to General Partner or Borrower, any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries (other than judgments as to which, and only to the extent, a reputable insurance company has acknowledged coverage of such claim in writing or which have been paid or stayed).
Judgments
          SECTION 4.18. . No Event of Default or, to the best of the Borrower's knowledge, Default exists under or with respect to any Loan Document and neither the Borrower, Guarantor nor any Qualified Borrower is in default in any material respect beyond any applicable grace period under or with respect to any other material agreement, instrument or undertaking to which it is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound in any respect, the existence of which default is likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
No Default
          SECTION 4.19. . The Borrower and each Qualified Borrower has obtained and does hold in full force and effect, all franchises, licenses, permits, certificates, authorizations, qualifications, accreditation, easements, rights of way and other consents and approvals which are necessary for the operation of its businesses as presently conducted, the absence of which is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Licenses, etc
          SECTION 4.20. . To the Borrower's knowledge, the Borrower, each Qualified Borrower and each of its respective Real Property Assets are in compliance with all laws, rules, regulations, orders, judgments, writs and decrees, including, without limitation, all building and zoning ordinances and codes, the failure to comply with which is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance With Law
          SECTION 4.21. . Except as may have been disclosed by the Borrower in writing to the Banks, neither Borrower nor any Qualified Borrower is a party to any agreement or instrument or subject to any other obligation or any charter or corporate or partnership restriction, as the case may be, which, individually or in the aggregate, is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Burdensome Restrictions
 
          SECTION 4.22. . The Borrower has not dealt with any broker or finder with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or otherwise in connection with this Agreement, and the Borrower has not done any act, had any negotiations or conversation, or made any agreements or promises which will in any way create or give rise to any obligation or liability for the payment by the Borrower of any brokerage fee, charge, commission or other compensation to any party with respect to the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents, other than the fees payable to the Administrative Agent and the Banks, and certain other Persons as previously disclosed in writing to the Administrative Agent.
Brokers' Fees
          SECTION 4.23. .
Intentionally Omitted
          SECTION 4.24. . The Borrower currently maintains insurance at 100% replacement cost insurance coverage (subject to customary deductibles) in respect of each of its Real Property Assets, as well as commercial general liability insurance (including, without limitation, "builders' risk" where applicable) against claims for personal, and bodily injury and/or death, to one or more persons, or property damage, as well as workers' compensation insurance, in each case with respect to liability and casualty insurance with insurers having an A.M. Best policyholders' rating of not less than A-VII in amounts that prudent owners of assets such as Borrower's directly or indirectly owned Real Property Assets would maintain.
Insurance
          SECTION 4.25. . The documents delivered pursuant to Section 3.1(e) constitute, as of the Closing Date, all of the organizational documents (together with all amendments and modifications thereof) of the Borrower, each Qualified Borrower as of the Closing Date and General Partner. The Borrower represents that it has delivered to the Administrative Agent true, correct and complete copies of each such documents. General Partner is the general partner of the Borrower. General Partner holds (directly or indirectly) an approximately 94.5% common equity ownership interest in the Borrower as of the date hereof.
Organizational Documents
          SECTION 4.26. . As of June 30, 2009, each Property listed on Schedule 1.1 as a Unencumbered Property (i) is a wholly-owned or ground leased (directly or beneficially) by Borrower, a Financing Partnership or a Joint Venture Subsidiary, (ii) is not subject (nor are any equity interests in such Property that are owned directly or indirectly by Borrower, General Partner or any Joint Venture Parent subject) to a Lien which secures Indebtedness of any Person, other than Permitted Liens, and (iii) is not subject (nor are any equity interests in such Property that are owned directly or indirectly by Borrower, General Partner or Joint Venture Parent subject) to any Negative Pledge. All of the information set forth on Schedule 1.1 is true and correct in all material respects.
Unencumbered Properties
          The Borrower covenants and agrees that, so long as any Bank has any Commitment hereunder or any Obligations remain unpaid:
          SECTION 5.1. . The Borrower will deliver to each of the Banks:
Information
 
               (a) as soon as available and in any event within five (5) Business Days after the same is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (but in no event later than 95 days after the end of each Fiscal Year of the Borrower) a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower, General Partner and their Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of such Fiscal Year and the related consolidated statements of Borrower's and General Partner's operations and consolidated statements of Borrower's and General Partner's cash flow for such Fiscal Year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous Fiscal Year (if available), all reported in a manner acceptable to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Borrower's and General Partner's Form 10K and reported on by PriceWaterhouseCoopers or other independent public accountants of nationally recognized standing;
               (b) as soon as available and in any event within five (5) Business Days after the same is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (but in no event later than 50 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each Fiscal Year of the Borrower and General Partner), (i) a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower, General Partner and their Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and the related consolidated statements of Borrower's and General Partner's operations and consolidated statements of Borrower's and General Partner's cash flow for such quarter and for the portion of the Borrower's or General Partner's Fiscal Year ended at the end of such quarter, all reported in the form provided to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Borrower's and General Partner's Form 10Q, and (ii) and such other information reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent or any Bank;
               (c) simultaneously with the delivery of each set of financial statements referred to in clauses (a) and (b) above, a certificate of the chief financial officer of the Borrower (i) setting forth in reasonable detail (including, without limitation, reconciliation to GAAP) the calculations required to establish whether the Borrower was in compliance with the requirements of Section 5.8 on the date of such financial statements; (ii) certifying (x) that such financial statements fairly present in all material respects the financial condition and the results of operations of the Borrower on the dates and for the periods indicated, on the basis of GAAP, with respect to the Borrower subject, in the case of interim financial statements, to normally recurring year-end adjustments, and (y) that such officer has reviewed the terms of the Loan Documents and has made, or caused to be made under his or her supervision, a review in reasonable detail of the business and condition of the Borrower during the period beginning on the date through which the last such review was made pursuant to this Section 5.1(c) (or, in the case of the first certification pursuant to this Section 5.1(c), the Closing Date) and ending on a date not more than ten (10) Business Days prior to, but excluding, the date of such delivery and that (1) on the basis of such financial statements and such review of the Loan Documents, no Event of Default existed under Section 6.1(b) with respect to Sections 5.8 and 5.9 at or as of the date of said financial statements, and (2) on the basis of such review of the Loan Documents and the business and condition of the Borrower, to the best knowledge of such officer, as of the last day of the period covered by such certificate no Default or Event of Default under any other provision of Section 6.1 occurred and is continuing or, if any such Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, specifying the nature and extent thereof and, the action the Borrower proposes to take in respect thereof. Such certificate shall set forth the calculations required to establish the matters described in clauses (1) and (2) above;
 
               (d) (i) within five (5) Business Days after any officer of the Borrower obtains knowledge of any Default, if such Default is then continuing, a certificate of the chief financial officer, or other executive officer of the Borrower setting forth the details thereof and the action which the Borrower is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto; and (ii) promptly and in any event within five (5) Business Days after the Borrower obtains knowledge thereof, notice of (x) any litigation or governmental proceeding pending or threatened against the Borrower or its directly or indirectly Real Property Assets as to which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse determination and which, if adversely determined, is likely to individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, and (y) any other event, act or condition which is likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
               (e) promptly upon the mailing thereof to the shareholders of General Partner generally, copies of all proxy statements so mailed;
               (f) promptly upon the filing thereof and to the extent that the same is not publicly available, copies of all reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (or their equivalents) (other than the exhibits thereto, which exhibits will be provided upon request therefor by any Bank) which General Partner shall have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
               (g) promptly and in any event within thirty (30) days, if and when any member of the ERISA Group (i) gives or is required to give notice to the PBGC of any "reportable event" (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) with respect to any Plan which might constitute grounds for a termination of such Plan under Title IV of ERISA, or knows that the plan administrator of any Plan has given or is required to give notice of any such reportable event, a copy of the notice of such reportable event given or required to be given to the PBGC; (ii) receives notice of complete or partial withdrawal liability under Title IV of ERISA or notice that any Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization, is insolvent or has been terminated, a copy of such notice; (iii) receives notice from the PBGC under Title IV of ERISA of an intent to terminate, impose liability (other than for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA) in respect of, or appoint a trustee to administer any Plan, a copy of such notice; (iv) applies for a waiver of the minimum funding standard under Section 412 of the Code, a copy of such application; (v) gives notice of intent to terminate any Plan under Section 4041(c) of ERISA, a copy of such notice and other information filed with the PBGC; (vi) gives notice of withdrawal from any Plan pursuant to Section 4063 of ERISA, a copy of such notice; or (vii) fails to make any payment or contribution to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or in respect of any Benefit Arrangement or makes any amendment to any Plan or Benefit Arrangement which has resulted or could result in the imposition of a Lien or the posting of a bond or other security, and in the case of clauses (i) through (vii) above, which event could result in a Material Adverse Effect, a certificate of the chief financial officer or the chief accounting officer of the Borrower setting forth details as to such occurrence and action, if any, which the Borrower or applicable member of the ERISA Group is required or proposes to take;
               (h) promptly and in any event within ten (10) days after the Borrower obtains actual knowledge of any of the following events, a certificate of the Borrower, executed by an officer of the Borrower, specifying the nature of such condition, and the Borrower's or, if the Borrower has actual knowledge thereof, the Environmental Affiliate's proposed initial response thereto: (i) the receipt by the Borrower, or any of the Environmental Affiliates of any
 
communication (written or oral), whether from a governmental authority, citizens group, employee or otherwise, that alleges that the Borrower, or any of the Environmental Affiliates, is not in compliance with applicable Environmental Laws, and such noncompliance is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, (ii) the existence of any Environmental Claim pending against the Borrower or any Environmental Affiliate and such Environmental Claim is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or (iii) any release, emission, discharge or disposal of any Material of Environmental Concern that is likely to form the basis of any Environmental Claim against the Borrower or any Environmental Affiliate which in any such event is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect;
               (i) promptly and in any event within five (5) Business Days after receipt of any notices or correspondence from any company or agent for any company providing insurance coverage to the Borrower relating to any loss which is likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect, copies of such notices and correspondence;
               (j) simultaneously with the delivery of the information required by Sections 5.1(a) and (b), a statement of all Unencumbered Properties; and
               (k) from time to time such additional information regarding the financial position or business of the Borrower, General Partner and their Subsidiaries as the Administrative Agent, at the request of any Bank, may reasonably request in writing, so long as disclosure of such information could not result in a violation of, or expose the Borrower, General Partner or their Subsidiaries to any material liability under, any applicable law, ordinance or regulation or any agreements with unaffiliated third parties that are binding on the Borrower, General Partner or any of their Subsidiaries or on any Property of any of them.
          SECTION 5.2. . The Borrower, each Qualified Borrower, General Partner and their Consolidated Subsidiaries will pay and discharge, at or before maturity, all their respective material obligations and liabilities including, without limitation, any obligation pursuant to any agreement by which it or any of its properties is bound, in each case where the failure to so pay or discharge such obligations or liabilities is likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect, and will maintain in accordance with GAAP, appropriate reserves for the accrual of any of the same.
Payment of Obligations
          SECTION 5.3. .
Maintenance of Property; Insurance; Affiliate Transfers
               (a) The Borrower will keep, and will cause each Consolidated Subsidiary to keep, all property useful and necessary in its business, including without limitation its Real Property Assets (for so long as it constitutes Real Property Assets), in good repair, working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, in each case where the failure to so maintain and repair will have a Material Adverse Effect.
               (b) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, insurance described in Section 4.24 hereof with insurers meeting the qualifications described therein, which insurance shall in any event not provide for less coverage than insurance customarily carried by owners of properties similar to, and in the same locations as, Borrower's Real Property Assets. The Borrower will deliver to the Administrative Agent upon the reasonable request of
 
the Administrative Agent from time to time (i) full information as to the insurance carried, (ii) within five (5) days of receipt of notice from any insurer a copy of any notice of cancellation or material change in coverage required by Section 4.24 from that existing on the date of this Agreement and (iii) forthwith, notice of any cancellation or nonrenewal (without replacement) of coverage by the Borrower.
          SECTION 5.4. . The Borrower, each Qualified Borrower and General Partner each will preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect, their respective partnership and corporate existence and their respective rights, privileges and franchises necessary for the normal conduct of business unless the failure to maintain such rights and franchises does not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Maintenance of Existence
          SECTION 5.5. . The Borrower, each Qualified Borrower and General Partner will, and will cause their Subsidiaries to, comply in all material respects with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and requirements of governmental authorities (including, without limitation, Environmental Laws, and all zoning and building codes with respect to its Real Property Assets and ERISA and the rules and regulations thereunder and all federal securities laws) except where the necessity of compliance therewith is contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings or where the failure to do so will not have a Material Adverse Effect or expose Administrative Agent or Banks to any material liability therefor.
Compliance with Laws
          SECTION 5.6. . The Borrower will keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries shall be made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities in conformity with GAAP, modified as required by this Agreement and applicable law; and will permit representatives of any Bank, at such Bank's expense, or from and after an Event of Default, at Borrower's expense, to visit and inspect any of its properties, including without limitation its Real Property Assets, and so long as disclosure of such information could not result in a violation of, or expose the Borrower, any Qualified Borrower, General Partner or their Subsidiaries to any material liability under, any applicable law, ordinance or regulation or any agreements with unaffiliated third parties that are binding on the Borrower, any Qualified Borrower, General Partner or any of their Subsidiaries or on any Property of any of them, to examine and make abstracts from any of its books and records and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its officers and independent public accountants, all at such reasonable times during normal business hours, upon reasonable prior notice and as often as may reasonably be desired. Administrative Agent shall coordinate any such visit or inspection to arrange for review by any Bank requesting any such visit or inspection.
Inspection of Property, Books and Records
          SECTION 5.7. . The Borrower shall do or cause to be done, all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its, each Qualified Borrower's, General Partner's and their Consolidated Subsidiaries' existence and its patents, trademarks, servicemarks, tradenames, copyrights, franchises, licenses, permits, certificates, authorizations, qualifications, accreditation, easements, rights of way and other rights, consents and approvals the nonexistence of which is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Existence
          SECTION 5.8. .
Financial Covenants
 
               (a) . Borrower shall not permit the ratio of Total Liabilities to Total Asset Value of Borrower to exceed 0.60:1 at any time; provided, however, such ratio may exceed 0.60:1 for any two (2) consecutive quarters but in no event shall Borrower permit the ratio of Total Liabilities to Total Asset Value to exceed 0.65:1 at any time.
Total Liabilities to Total Asset Value
               (b) . Borrower shall not permit the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to Fixed Charges, for the then most recently completed four (4) consecutive Fiscal Quarters, to be less than 1.75:1.
Adjusted EBITDA to Fixed Charges Ratio
               (c) . Borrower shall not permit the ratio of Secured Debt to Total Asset Value of Borrower to exceed 0.25:1 at any time.
Secured Debt to Total Asset Value
               (d) .
Intentionally Omitted
               (e) . Borrower shall not permit the ratio of Unencumbered Net Operating Cash Flow to Unsecured Interest Expense to be less than 1.75:1.
Unencumbered Net Operating Cash Flow to Unsecured Interest Expense
               (f) . The Consolidated Tangible Net Worth of the Borrower determined in conformity with GAAP will at no time be less than the sum of Two Billion Two Hundred Million Dollars ($2,200,000,000.00) and seventy percent (70%) of the Net Offering Proceeds (other than proceeds received within ninety (90) days after the redemption, retirement or repurchase of ownership or equity interests in Borrower or Guarantor, up to the amount paid by Borrower or Guarantor in connection with such redemption, retirement or repurchase, where, for the avoidance of doubt, the net effect is that neither Borrower nor Guarantor shall have increased its Net Worth as a result of any such proceeds) received by the Borrower or General Partner subsequent to the Closing Date.
Minimum Tangible Net Worth
               (g) . During the continuance of a monetary Event of Default, Borrower shall only pay partnership distributions that are necessary to enable General Partner to make those dividends necessary to maintain General Partner's status as a real estate investment trust.
Dividends
               (h) . Borrower's primary business will not be substantially different from that conducted by Borrower on the Closing Date and shall include the ownership, operation and development of Real Property Assets and any other business activities of Borrower and its Subsidiaries will remain incidental thereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Borrower and its Subsidiaries may acquire or maintain Permitted Holdings if and so long as the aggregate value of Permitted Holdings, whether held directly or indirectly by Borrower does not exceed, at any time, twenty-five percent (25%) of Total Asset Value of Borrower unless a greater percentage is approved by the Majority Banks (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed). For purposes of calculating the foregoing percentage, the value of Unimproved Assets shall be calculated based upon the book value thereof, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Permitted Holdings
               (i) .
Intentionally Omitted
 
               (j) . Borrower and General Partner shall not, and shall not allow any of their Subsidiaries, Financing Partnerships or Joint Venture Subsidiaries to, allow any Unencumbered Property (or any equity interests in such Property that are owned directly or indirectly by Borrower, General Partner or any Joint Venture Parent), that is necessary to comply with the provisions of Section 5.8(e) hereof, to become subject to a Lien that secures the Indebtedness of any Person, other than Permitted Liens.
No Liens
               (k) . Each of the foregoing ratios and financial requirements shall be calculated as of the last day of each Fiscal Quarter.
Calculation
          SECTION 5.9. . (a) Neither the Borrower nor General Partner shall enter into any merger or consolidation without obtaining the prior written consent thereto in writing of the Majority Banks, unless the following criteria are met: (i) either (x) the Borrower or General Partner is the surviving entity, or (y) the individuals constituting the General Partner's board of directors or board of trustees immediately prior to such merger or consolidation represent a majority of the surviving entity's board of directors or board of trustees after such merger or consolidation; and (ii) the entity which is merged into Borrower or General Partner is predominantly in the commercial real estate business. Nothing in this Section shall be deemed to prohibit the sale or leasing of portions of the Real Property Assets in the ordinary course of business.
Restriction on Fundamental Changes
               (b) The Borrower shall not amend its agreement of limited partnership or other organizational documents in any manner that would have a Material Adverse Effect without the Majority Banks' consent. Without limitation of the foregoing, no Person shall be admitted as a general partner of the Borrower other than General Partner. General Partner shall not amend its articles of incorporation, by-laws, or other organizational documents in any manner that would have a Material Adverse Effect without the Majority Banks' consent. No Qualified Borrower shall amend its organizational documents in any manner that would have a Material Adverse Effect without the Majority Banks' consent. The Borrower shall not make any "in-kind" transfer of any of its property or assets to any of its constituent partners if such transfer would result in an Event of Default under Section 6.1(b) by reason of a breach of the provisions of Section 5.8.
          SECTION 5.10. . (a) Except for Permitted Holdings and Foreign Property Interests, neither the Borrower, any Qualified Borrower nor General Partner shall enter into any business which is substantially different from that conducted by the Borrower or General Partner on the Closing Date after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents. The Borrower shall carry on its business operations through the Borrower, its Consolidated Subsidiaries and its Investment Affiliates.
Changes in Business
               (b) Except for Permitted Holdings and Foreign Property Interests, Borrower shall not engage in any line of business which is substantially different from the business conducted by the Borrower on the Closing Date, which includes the ownership, operation and development of Real Property Assets and the provision of services incidental thereto, whether directly or through its Consolidated Subsidiaries and Investment Affiliates.
          SECTION 5.11. .
General Partner Status
 
               (a) . General Partner shall at all times (i) remain a publicly traded company listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, and (ii) maintain its status as a self-directed and self-administered real estate investment trust under the Code.
Status
               (b) . General Partner shall not, directly or indirectly, create, incur, assume or otherwise become or remain directly or indirectly liable with respect to, any Indebtedness, except:
Indebtedness
               (1) the Obligations; and
               (2) Indebtedness of Borrower for which there is recourse to General Partner which, after giving effect thereto, may be incurred or may remain outstanding without giving rise to an Event of Default or Default under any provision of this Article V.
               (c) .
Restriction on Fundamental Changes
               (1) General Partner shall not have an investment in any Person other than (i) Borrower or indirectly through Borrower, (ii) directly or indirectly in Financing Partnerships, and (iii) the interests identified on Schedule 5.11(c)(1) as being owned by General Partner.
               (2) General Partner shall not acquire an interest in any Property other than securities issued by Borrower and Financing Partnerships and the interests identified on Schedule 5.11(c)(2) attached hereto.
               (d) . Neither General Partner nor any of its Subsidiaries shall become subject to any Environmental Claim which has a Material Adverse Effect, including, without limitation, any arising out of or related to (i) the release or threatened release of any Material of Environmental Concern into the environment, or any remedial action in response thereto, or (ii) any violation of any Environmental Laws. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, General Partner shall have the right to contest in good faith any claim of violation of an Environmental Law by appropriate legal proceedings and shall be entitled to postpone compliance with the obligation being contested as long as (i) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (ii) General Partner shall have given Administrative Agent prior written notice of the commencement of such contest, (iii) noncompliance with such Environmental Law shall not subject General Partner or such Subsidiary to any criminal penalty or subject Administrative Agent or any Bank to pay any civil penalty or to prosecution for a crime, and (iv) no portion of any Property material to Borrower or its condition or prospects shall be in substantial danger of being sold, forfeited or lost, by reason of such contest or the continued existence of the matter being contested.
Environmental Liabilities
               (e) . General Partner will not directly or indirectly convey, sell, transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber or dispose of any of its partnership interests in Borrower or any of its equity interest in any of the partners of the Borrower as of the date hereof (except in connection with the dissolution or liquidation of such partners of the Borrower or the redemption of interests in connection with stock repurchase programs), except for the reduction of General Partner's interest in the Borrower arising from
Disposal of Partnership Interests
 
Borrower's issuance of partnership interests in the Borrower or the retirement of preferred units by Borrower. General Partner will continue to be the managing general partner of Borrower.
          SECTION 5.12. . Borrower and General Partner shall not allow any of their Subsidiaries, Financing Partnerships or Joint Venture Subsidiaries that own, directly or indirectly, any Unencumbered Property to directly or indirectly create, incur, assume or otherwise become or remain liable with respect to any Indebtedness other than trade debt incurred in the ordinary course of business and Indebtedness owing to Borrower or any Financing Partnership, if the resulting failure of such Property to qualify as a Unencumbered Property would result in an Event of Default under Section 5.8.
Other Indebtedness
          SECTION 5.13. . If Borrower shall enter into any forward equity contracts, Borrower may only settle the same by delivery of stock, it being agreed that if Borrower shall settle the same with cash, the same shall constitute an Event of Default hereunder unless Borrower shall have received the unanimous consent of the Banks to settle such forward equity contracts with cash.
Forward Equity Contracts
          SECTION 5.14. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event that any Property located outside the United States (each a "") is owned by a Financing Partnership (a ""), by a Joint Venture Subsidiary (a "") or by a wholly-owned direct or indirect subsidiary of a Joint Venture Subsidiary (a ""; such Joint Venture Subsidiary is hereinafter referred to as the ""; each entity through which the First Tier JV indirectly owns a Tiered Non-US Property Owner is hereinafter referred to as an ""; and the Tiered Non-US Property Owners, the 100% AMB Non-US Property Owners and the JV Non-US Property Owners are sometimes hereinafter referred to individually as a "Non-US Property Owner" and collectively as the "") and the Non-US Property Owner or, in the case of any Tiered Non-US Property Owner, the related First Tier JV or a related Intermediate Tier Entity has incurred Indebtedness (whether or not such Indebtedness is secured by a Lien against such Non-US Property and/or any direct or indirect equity interests in the Non-US Property Owner) (each a "") held by
Capital Funding Loans
Non-US Property
100% AMB Non-US Property Owner
JV Non-US Property Owner
Tiered Non-US Property Owner
First Tier JV
Intermediate Tier Entity
Non-US Property Owners
Capital Funding Loan
then no such Capital Funding Loan or related Second Tier Funding Loan (as defined below) shall be deemed to constitute Indebtedness for any purposes under this Agreement, any Lien securing
 
such Capital Funding Loan shall be a Permitted Lien and no Non-US Property to which such Capital Funding Loan or Second Tier Funding Loan relates shall fail to be a Unencumbered Property solely because the capital provided to the applicable Non-US Property Owner or related First Tier JV or Intermediate Tier Entity was in the form of a Capital Funding Loan rather than a contribution to the equity of such Non-US Property Owner, First Tier JV or Intermediate Tier Entity, so long as
For purposes of the foregoing, an action will be "Substantially Controlled by Borrower" if such action is substantially controlled directly by Borrower or through one or more Financing Partnerships either by agreement of the parties, through the provisions of a Person's formation documents or otherwise. For purposes of the preceding sentence, an action shall be deemed to be substantially controlled directly by Borrower or through one or more Financing Partnerships if Borrower or such Financing Partnerships have the ability to exercise a usual and customary buy-sell right in the event of a disagreement regarding such action. As used herein the term "" means any loans made to an International FinCo by Borrower, any Financing Partnerships of Borrower and/or any other Person with an equity interest in such International FinCo (or affiliates of such other Person) so long as (x) Borrower's direct or indirect share of the combined loans of Borrower, any Financing Partnership and/or such other Persons (or affiliates thereof) to the International FinCo is the same or greater than Borrower's Share of the applicable Non-US Property Owner, and (y) all such loans are and any remedies that may be exercised in connection with enforcement of such loans may only be exercised concurrently or not at all.
Second Tier Funding Loan
pari passu
 
          SECTION 6.1. . An "Event of Default" shall have occurred if one or more of the following events shall have occurred and be continuing:
Events of Default
               (a) the Borrower shall fail to (i) pay when due any principal of any Loan, or (ii) the Borrower shall fail to pay when due interest on any Loan or any fees or any other amount payable to Administrative Agent or the Banks hereunder and the same shall continue for a period of five (5) days after the same becomes due;
               (b) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant contained in Section 5.8, Section 5.9(a) or (b), Section 5.10, Section 5.11(a), (b) or (c), Section 5.12 or Section 5.13;
               (c) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those covered by clause (a), (b), (e), (f), (g), (h), (j), (n) or (o) of this Section 6.1) for 30 days after written notice thereof has been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent; or if such default is of such a nature that it cannot with reasonable effort be completely remedied within said period of thirty (30) days such additional period of time as may be reasonably necessary to cure same, provided Borrower commences such cure within said thirty (30) day period and diligently prosecutes same, until completion, but in no event shall such extended period exceed ninety (90) days;
               (d) any representation, warranty, certification or statement made by the Borrower in this Agreement or in any certificate, financial statement or other document delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made (or deemed made) and, with respect to such representations, warranties, certifications or statements not known by the Borrower at the time made or deemed made to be incorrect, the defect causing such representation or warranty to be incorrect when made (or deemed made) is not removed within thirty (30) days after written notice thereof from Administrative Agent to Borrower;
               (e) the Borrower, any Qualified Borrower, the General Partner, any Subsidiary or any Investment Affiliate shall default in the payment when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise) of any amount owing in respect of any Recourse Debt (other than the Obligations) for which the aggregate outstanding principal amounts exceed Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000) and such default shall continue beyond the giving of any required notice and the expiration of any applicable grace period and such default has not been waived, in writing, by the holder of any such Debt; or the Borrower, any Qualified Borrower, the General Partner, any Subsidiary or any Investment Affiliate shall default in the performance or observance of any obligation or condition with respect to any such Recourse Debt or any other event shall occur or condition exist beyond the giving of any required notice and the expiration of any applicable grace period, if the effect of such default, event or condition is to accelerate the maturity of any such indebtedness or to
 
permit (without any further requirement of notice or lapse of time) the holder or holders thereof, or any trustee or agent for such holders, to accelerate the maturity of any such indebtedness;
               (f) the Borrower or the General Partner shall commence a voluntary case or other proceeding seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to itself or its debts under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect or seeking the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidate, custodian or other similar official of it or any substantial part of its property, or shall consent to any such relief or to the appointment of or taking possession by any such official in an involuntary case or other proceeding commenced against it, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall fail generally to pay its debts as they become due, or shall take any action to authorize any of the foregoing;
               (g) an involuntary case or other proceeding shall be commenced against the Borrower or the General Partner seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to it or its debts under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect or seeking the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official of it or any substantial part of its property, and such involuntary case or other proceeding shall remain undismissed and unstayed for a period of 90 days; or an order for relief shall be entered against the Borrower or the General Partner under the federal bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter in effect;
               (h) intentionally omitted;
               (i) one or more final, non-appealable judgments or decrees in an aggregate amount of Thirty-Five Million Dollars ($35,000,000) or more shall be entered by a court or courts of competent jurisdiction against the General Partner, the Borrower or, to the extent of any recourse to the General Partner or the Borrower, any Qualified Borrower or any General Partner's or Borrower's Consolidated Subsidiaries (other than any judgment as to which, and only to the extent, a reputable insurance company has acknowledged coverage of such claim in writing) and (i) any such judgments or decrees shall not be stayed, discharged, paid, bonded or vacated within thirty (30) days or (ii) enforcement proceedings shall be commenced by any creditor on any such judgments or decrees;
               (j) there shall be a change in the majority of the Board of Directors of the General Partner during any twelve (12) month period, excluding any change in directors resulting from (x) the death or disability of any director, or (y) satisfaction of any requirement for the majority of the members of the board of directors or trustees of the General Partner to qualify under applicable law as independent directors or (z) the replacement of any director who is an officer or employee of the General Partner or an affiliate of the General Partner with any other officer or employee of the General Partner or an affiliate of the General Partner;
               (k) any Person (including affiliates of such Person) or "group" (as such term is defined in applicable federal securities laws and regulations) shall acquire more than thirty percent (30%) of the common shares of the General Partner;
               (l) the General Partner shall cease at any time to qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Code;
 
               (m) if any Termination Event with respect to a Plan, Multiemployer Plan or Benefit Arrangement shall occur as a result of which Termination Event or Events any member of the ERISA Group has incurred or may incur any liability to the PBGC or any other Person and the sum (determined as of the date of occurrence of such Termination Event) of the insufficiency of such Plan, Multiemployer Plan or Benefit Arrangement and the insufficiency of any and all other Plans, Multiemployer Plans and Benefit Arrangements with respect to which such a Termination Event shall occur and be continuing (or, in the case of a Multiple Employer Plan with respect to which a Termination Event described in clause (ii) of the definition of Termination Event shall occur and be continuing and in the case of a liability with respect to a Termination Event which is or could be a liability of the Borrower or the General Partner rather than a liability of the Plan, the liability of the Borrower or the General Partner) is equal to or greater than $20,000,000 and which the Administrative Agent reasonably determines will have a Material Adverse Effect;
               (n) if, any member of the ERISA Group shall commit a failure described in Section 302(f)(1) of ERISA or Section 412(n)(1) of the Code and the amount of the lien determined under Section 302(f)(3) of ERISA or Section 412(n)(3) of the Code that could reasonably be expected to be imposed on any member of the ERISA Group or their assets in respect of such failure shall be equal to or greater than $20,000,000 and which the Administrative Agent reasonably determines will have a Material Adverse Effect;
               (o) at any time, for any reason the Borrower or any Qualified Borrower seeks to repudiate its obligations under any Loan Document or the General Partner seeks to repudiate its obligations under the Guaranty.
               (p) a default beyond any applicable notice or grace period under any of the other Loan Documents;
               (q) any assets of Borrower or any Qualified Borrower shall constitute "assets" (within the meaning of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code, including but not limited to 29 C.F.R..2510.3-101 or any successor regulation thereto) of an "employee benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA or a "plan" within the meaning of Section 4975(e)(1) of the Code; or
               (r) the Note, the Loan, the Obligations, the Guaranty or any of the Loan Documents or the exercise of any of the Administrative Agent's or any of the Bank's rights in connection therewith shall constitute a prohibited transaction under ERISA and/or the Code.
          SECTION 6.2. . (a) Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default described in Sections 6.1(f), (g), (o) or (q), the Commitments shall immediately terminate and the unpaid principal amount of, and any and all accrued interest on, the Loans and any and all accrued fees and other Obligations hereunder shall automatically become immediately due and payable, with all additional interest from time to time accrued thereon and without presentation, demand, or protest or other requirements of any kind (including, without limitation, valuation and appraisement, diligence, presentment, notice of intent to demand or accelerate and notice of acceleration), all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower for itself and on behalf of any Qualified Borrower; and upon the occurrence and during the
Rights and Remedies
 
continuance of any other Event of Default, the Administrative Agent, following consultation with the Banks, may (and upon the demand of the Majority Banks shall), by written notice to the Borrower, in addition to the exercise of all of the rights and remedies permitted the Administrative Agent and the Banks at law or equity or under any of the other Loan Documents, declare that the Commitments are terminated and declare the unpaid principal amount of and any and all accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans and any and all accrued fees and other Obligations hereunder to be, and the same shall thereupon be, immediately due and payable with all additional interest from time to time accrued thereon and (except as otherwise provided in the Loan Documents) without presentation, demand, or protest or other requirements of any kind (including, without limitation, valuation and appraisement, diligence, presentment, notice of intent to demand or accelerate and notice of acceleration), all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower for itself and on behalf of any Qualified Borrower.
               (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement or in any other Loan Document, the Administrative Agent and the Banks each agree that any exercise or enforcement of the rights and remedies granted to the Administrative Agent or the Banks under this Agreement or at law or in equity with respect to this Agreement or any other Loan Documents shall be commenced and maintained by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Administrative Agent and/or the Banks. The Administrative Agent shall act at the direction of the Majority Banks in connection with the exercise of any and all remedies at law, in equity or under any of the Loan Documents or, if the Majority Banks are unable to reach agreement, then, from and after an Event of Default, the Administrative Agent may pursue such rights and remedies as it may determine.
          SECTION 6.3. . The Administrative Agent shall give notice to the Borrower under Section 6.1(c) and 6.1(d) promptly upon being requested to do so by the Majority Banks and shall thereupon notify all the Banks thereof. The Administrative Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default (other than nonpayment of principal of or interest on the Loans) unless Administrative Agent has received notice in writing from a Bank or Borrower referring to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, describing such event or condition. Should Administrative Agent receive notice of the occurrence of an Default or Event of Default expressly stating that such notice is a notice of an Default or Event of Default, or should Administrative Agent send Borrower a notice of Default or Event of Default, Administrative Agent shall promptly give notice thereof to each Bank.
Notice of Default
          SECTION 6.4. . Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary but subject to the provisions of Section 9.16 hereof , from and after an Event of Default, to the extent proceeds are received by Administrative Agent, such proceeds will be distributed to the Banks pro rata in accordance with the unpaid principal amount of the Loans (giving effect to any participations granted therein pursuant to Section 9.4).
Distribution of Proceeds after Default
 
          SECTION 7.1. . Each Bank irrevocably appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with all such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Except as set forth in Sections 7.8 and 7.9 hereof, the provisions of this Article VII are solely for the benefit of Administrative Agent and the Banks, and Borrower shall not have any rights to rely on or enforce any of the provisions hereof. In performing its functions and duties under this Agreement, Administrative Agent shall each act solely as an agent of the Banks and do not assume and shall not be deemed to have assumed any obligation toward or relationship of agency or trust with or for the Borrower.
Appointment and Authorization
          SECTION 7.2. . JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation each has the same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Bank and may exercise or refrain from exercising the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent or Syndication Agent, as applicable, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation and each of their affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower, General Partner or any Subsidiary or affiliate of the Borrower as if they were not the Administrative Agent or Syndication Agent, as applicable, hereunder, and the term "Bank" and "Banks" shall include each of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, each in its individual capacity.
Agency and Affiliates
          SECTION 7.3. . The obligations of each of the Agents hereunder are only those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each of the Agents shall not be required to take any action with respect to any Default or Event of Default, except as expressly provided in Article VI. The duties of each Agent shall be administrative in nature. Subject to the provisions of Sections 7.1, 7.5 and 7.6, each Agent shall administer the Loans in the same manner as each administers its own loans.
Action by Agents
          SECTION 7.4. . As between Administrative Agent on the one hand and the Banks on the other hand, the Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent public accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or experts.
Consultation with Experts
          SECTION 7.5. . As between each Agent on the one hand and the Banks on the other hand, none of the Agents nor any of their affiliates nor any of their respective directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in connection herewith (i) with the consent or at the request of the Majority Banks or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. As between each Agent on the one hand and the Banks on the other hand, none of the Agents nor any of their respective directors, officers, agents or employees shall be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain, inquire into or verify (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in connection with this
Liability of Agents
 
Agreement or any borrowing hereunder; (ii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants or agreements of the Borrower; (iii) the satisfaction of any condition specified in Article III, except receipt of items required to be delivered to such Agent, or (iv) the validity, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, the other Loan Documents or any other instrument or writing furnished in connection herewith. As between each Agent on the one hand and the Banks on the other hand, none of the Agents shall incur any liability by acting in reliance upon any notice, consent, certificate, statement, or other writing (which may be a bank wire, telex or similar writing) believed by it to be genuine or to be signed by the proper party or parties.
          SECTION 7.6. . Each Bank shall, ratably in accordance with its Commitment, indemnify the Agents and their affiliates and their respective directors, officers, agents and employees (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower) against any cost, expense (including, without limitation, counsel fees and disbursements), claim, demand, action, loss or liability (except such as result from such indemnitee's gross negligence or willful misconduct) that such indemnitee may suffer or incur in connection with its duties as Agent under this Agreement, the other Loan Documents or any action taken or omitted by such indemnitee hereunder. In the event that any Agent shall, subsequent to its receipt of indemnification payment(s) from Banks in accordance with this section, recoup any amount from the Borrower, or any other party liable therefor in connection with such indemnification, such Agent shall reimburse the Banks which previously made the payment(s) pro rata, based upon the actual amounts which were theretofore paid by each Bank. Each Agent shall reimburse such Banks so entitled to reimbursement within two (2) Business Days of its receipt of such funds from the Borrower or such other party liable therefor.
Indemnification
          SECTION 7.7. . Each Bank acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent or any other Bank, and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Bank also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, Syndication Agent or any other Bank, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking any action under this Agreement.
Credit Decision
          SECTION 7.8. . The Administrative Agent or the Syndication Agent may resign at any time by giving notice thereof to the Banks, the Borrower and each other and the Administrative Agent or the Syndication Agent, as applicable, shall resign in the event its Commitment (without participants) is reduced to less than Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000) unless as a result of a cancellation or reduction in the aggregate Commitments. Upon any such resignation, the Majority Banks shall have the right to appoint a successor Administrative Agent or Syndication Agent, as applicable, which successor Administrative Agent or successor Syndication Agent (as applicable) shall, provided no Event of Default has occurred and is then continuing, be subject to Borrower's approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. If no successor Administrative Agent or Syndication Agent (as applicable) shall have been so appointed by the Majority Banks and approved by the Borrower, and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent or Syndication Agent (as applicable) gives notice of resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent or retiring Syndication Agent (as applicable) may, on behalf of the
Successor Agents
 
Banks, appoint a successor Administrative Agent or Syndication Agent (as applicable), which shall be the Administrative Agent, Documentation Agent or the Syndication Agent as the case may be, who shall act until the Majority Banks shall appoint an Administrative Agent or Syndication Agent. Any appointment of a successor Administrative Agent or Syndication Agent by Majority Banks or the retiring Administrative Agent or the Syndication Agent pursuant to the preceding sentence shall, provided no Event of Default has occurred and is then continuing, be subject to the Borrower's approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as the Administrative Agent or Syndication Agent hereunder by a successor Administrative Agent or successor Syndication Agent, as applicable, such successor Administrative Agent or successor Syndication Agent, as applicable, shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent or retiring Syndication Agent, as applicable, and the retiring Administrative Agent or the retiring Syndication Agent, as applicable, shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. After any retiring Administrative Agent's or retiring Syndication Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was the Administrative Agent or the Syndication Agent, as applicable. For gross negligence or willful misconduct, as determined by all the Banks (excluding for such determination Administrative Agent or Syndication Agent in its capacity as a Bank, as applicable), Administrative Agent or Syndication Agent may be removed at any time by giving at least thirty (30) Business Days' prior written notice to Administrative Agent or Syndication Agent and Borrower. Such resignation or removal shall take effect upon the acceptance of appointment by a successor Administrative Agent, Documentation Agent or Syndication Agent, as applicable, in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7.8.
          SECTION 7.9. . All communications from Administrative Agent to the Banks requesting the Banks' determination, consent, approval or disapproval (i) shall be given in the form of a written notice to each Bank, (ii) shall be accompanied by a description of the matter or item as to which such determination, approval, consent or disapproval is requested, or shall advise each Bank where such matter or item may be inspected, or shall otherwise describe the matter or issue to be resolved, (iii) shall include, if reasonably requested by a Bank and to the extent not previously provided to such Bank, written materials and a summary of all oral information provided to Administrative Agent by Borrower in respect of the matter or issue to be resolved, (iv) shall include Administrative Agent's recommended course of action or determination in respect thereof ), and (v) shall include the following clause in capital letters, "FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS NOTICE WITHIN THE BANK REPLY PERIOD SHALL BE DEEMED CONSENT TO THE RECOMMENDATION SET FORTH HEREIN". Each Bank shall reply promptly, but in any event within ten (10) Business Days after receipt of the request therefor from Administrative Agent (the "Bank Reply Period"). Unless a Bank shall give written notice to Administrative Agent that it objects to the recommendation or determination of Administrative Agent (together with a written explanation of the reasons behind such objection) within the Bank Reply Period, such Bank shall be deemed to have approved of or consented to such recommendation or determination. With respect to decisions requiring the approval of the Majority Banks or all the Banks, Administrative Agent shall submit its recommendation or determination for approval of or consent to such recommendation or determination to all Banks and upon receiving the required approval or consent (or deemed approval or consent, as the case may be) shall follow the course of action or
Consents and Approvals
 
determination of the Majority Banks or all the Banks (and each non-responding Bank shall be deemed to have concurred with such recommended course of action), as the case may be.
          SECTION 8.1. . If on or prior to the first day of any Interest Period for any Euro-Dollar Borrowing or TIBOR Borrowing the Administrative Agent determines in good faith that deposits in Dollars (in the applicable amounts) are not being offered in the relevant market for such Interest Period, the Administrative Agent shall forthwith give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Banks, whereupon until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension no longer exist, the obligations of the Banks to make Euro-Dollar Loans or TIBOR Loans shall be suspended and clause (iii) of the definition of Base Rate shall not be given any effect. In such event unless the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent on or before the second (2) Euro-Dollar Business Day before, but excluding, the date of any Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Borrowing for Dollars for which a Notice of Borrowing has previously been given that it elects not to borrow on such date, such Borrowing shall instead be made as a Base Rate Borrowing, and any Notice of Borrowing for a Euro-Dollar Borrowing denominated in an Alternate Currency shall be ineffective.
Basis for Determining Interest Rate Inadequate or Unfair
nd
          SECTION 8.2. . If, on or after the date of this Agreement, the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Bank (or its Euro-Dollar Lending Office) with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) made after the Closing Date of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall make it unlawful for any Bank (or its Euro-Dollar Lending Office) to make, maintain or fund its Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loans, the Administrative Agent shall forthwith give notice thereof to the other Banks and the Borrower, whereupon until such Bank notifies the Borrower and the Administrative Agent that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension no longer exist, the obligation of such Bank to make Euro-Dollar Loans, shall be suspended and clause (iii) of the definition of Base Rate shall not be given any effect. With respect to Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loans, before giving any notice to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section, such Bank shall designate a different Euro-Dollar Lending Office if such designation will avoid the need for giving such notice and will not, in the judgment of such Bank, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Bank. If such Bank shall determine that it may not lawfully continue to maintain and fund any of its outstanding Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loans to maturity and shall so specify in such notice, the Borrower shall be deemed to have delivered a Notice of Interest Rate Election and such Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loan shall be converted as of such date to a Base Rate Loan (without payment of any amounts that Borrower would otherwise be obligated to pay pursuant to Section 2.14 hereof with respect to Loans converted pursuant to this Section 8.2) in an equal principal amount from such Bank (on which interest and principal shall be payable contemporaneously with the related Euro-Dollar Loans of the other Banks), and such Bank shall make such a Base Rate Loan.
Illegality
 
          If at any time, it shall be unlawful for any Bank to make, maintain or fund its Euro-Dollar or TIBOR Loans, the Borrower shall have the right, upon five (5) Business Day's notice to the Administrative Agent, to either (x) cause a bank, reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, to offer to purchase the Commitments of such Bank for an amount equal to such Bank's outstanding Loans, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, and to become a Bank hereunder, or obtain the agreement of one or more existing Banks to offer to purchase the Commitments of such Bank for such amount, which offer such Bank is hereby required to accept, or (y) to repay in full all Loans then outstanding of such Bank, together with interest due thereon and any and all fees due hereunder, upon which event, such Bank's Commitments shall be deemed to be canceled pursuant to Section 2.11(c).
          SECTION 8.3. .
Increased Cost and Reduced Return
               (a) If, on or after the date hereof (the "Loan Effective Date"), the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Bank (or its Applicable Lending Office) with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) made at the Closing Date of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve (including, without limitation, any such requirement imposed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (but excluding with respect to any Euro-Dollar Loan any such requirement reflected in an applicable Euro-Dollar Reserve Percentage)), special deposit, insurance assessment or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Bank (or its Applicable Lending Office) or shall impose on any Bank (or its Applicable Lending Office) or on the interbank market any other condition materially more burdensome in nature, extent or consequence than those in existence as of the Loan Effective Date affecting such Bank's Euro-Dollar Loans, its Note, or its obligation to make Euro-Dollar Loans, and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Bank (or its Applicable Lending Office) of making or maintaining any Euro-Dollar Loan, or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Bank (or its Applicable Lending Office) under this Agreement or under its Note with respect to such Euro-Dollar Loans, by an amount deemed by such Bank to be material, then, within 15 days after demand by such Bank (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), the Borrower shall pay to such Bank such additional amount or amounts (based upon a reasonable allocation thereof by such Bank to the Euro-Dollar Loans made by such Bank hereunder) as will compensate such Bank for such increased cost or reduction to the extent such Bank generally imposes such additional amounts on other borrowers of such Bank in similar circumstances.
               (b) If any Bank shall have reasonably determined that, after the date hereof, the adoption of any applicable law, rule or regulation regarding capital adequacy, or any change in any such law, rule or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Bank with any request or directive regarding capital adequacy (whether or not having the force of law) made after the Closing Date of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency, has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on capital of such Bank (or its Parent) as a consequence of such
 
Bank's obligations hereunder to a level below that which such Bank (or its Parent) could have achieved but for such adoption, change, request or directive (taking into consideration its policies with respect to capital adequacy) by an amount reasonably deemed by such Bank to be material, then from time to time, within 15 days after demand by such Bank (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), the Borrower shall pay to such Bank such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Bank (or its Parent) for such reduction to the extent such Bank generally imposes such additional amounts on other borrowers of such Bank in similar circumstances.
               (c) Each Bank will promptly notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent of any event of which it has knowledge, occurring after the date hereof, which will entitle such Bank to compensation pursuant to this Section and will designate a different Applicable Lending Office if such designation will avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, such compensation and will not, in the reasonable judgment of such Bank, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Bank. If such Bank shall fail to notify Borrower of any such event within ninety (90) days following the end of the month during which such event occurred, then Borrower's liability for any amounts described in this Section incurred by such Bank as a result of such event shall be limited to those attributable to the period occurring subsequent to the ninetieth (90) day prior to, but excluding, the date upon which such Bank actually notified Borrower of the occurrence of such event. A certificate of any Bank claiming compensation under this Section and setting forth a reasonably detailed calculation of the additional amount or amounts to be paid to it hereunder shall be conclusive in the absence of demonstrable error. In determining such amount, such Bank may use any reasonable averaging and attribution methods.
th
               (d) If at any time, any Bank shall be owed amounts pursuant to this Section 8.3, the Borrower shall have the right, upon five (5) Business Day's notice to the Administrative Agent to either (x) cause a bank, reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, to offer to purchase the Commitments of such Bank for an amount equal to such Bank's outstanding Loans, and to become a Bank hereunder, or to obtain the agreement of one or more existing Banks to offer to purchase the Commitments of such Bank for such amount, which offer such Bank is hereby required to accept, or (y) to repay in full all Loans then outstanding of such Bank, together with interest and all other amounts due thereon, upon which event, such Bank's Commitment shall be deemed to be canceled pursuant to Section 2.11(c).
          SECTION 8.4. .
Taxes
               (a) Any and all payments by the Borrower or any Qualified Borrower to or for the account of any Bank or the Administrative Agent hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, excluding, in the case of each Bank and the Administrative Agent, taxes imposed on its income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and, in the case of each Bank, taxes imposed on its income, and franchise or similar taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction of such Bank's Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof or by any other jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) as a result of a present or former connection between such Bank or Administrative Agent and such other jurisdiction or by the United States (all such non-excluded taxes, duties, levies, imposts,
 
deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities being hereinafter referred to as "Non-Excluded Taxes"). If the Borrower or any Qualified Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Non-Excluded Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any Note, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including, without limitation, deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 8.4) such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower or Qualified Borrower shall make such deductions, (iii) the Borrower or Qualified Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law and (iv) the Borrower or Qualified Borrower shall furnish to the Administrative Agent, at its address referred to in Section 9.1, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof.
               (b) In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes and any other excise or property taxes, or charges or similar levies which arise from any payment made hereunder or under any Note or from the execution or delivery of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any Note (hereinafter referred to as "Other Taxes").
               (c) In the event that Non-Excluded Taxes not imposed on the Closing Date are imposed, or Non-Excluded Taxes imposed on the Closing Date increase, the applicable Bank shall notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower of such event in writing within a reasonable period following receipt of knowledge thereof. If such Bank shall fail to notify Borrower of any such event within ninety (90) days following the end of the month during which such event occurred, then Borrower's or Qualified Borrower's liability for such additional Non-Excluded Taxes incurred by such Bank as a result of such event (including payment of a make-whole amount under Section 8.4(a)(i)) shall be limited to those attributable to the period occurring subsequent to the ninetieth (90th) day prior to, but excluding, the date upon which such Bank actually notified Borrower of the occurrence of such event.
               (d) The Borrower agrees to indemnify each Bank and the Administrative Agent for the full amount of Non-Excluded Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, any Non-Excluded Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 8.4) paid by such Bank, or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) and, so long as such or Administrative Agent has promptly paid any such Non-Excluded Taxes or Other Taxes, any liability for penalties and interest arising therefrom or with respect thereto. This indemnification shall be made within 15 days from the date such Bank or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) makes demand therefor.
               (e) Each Bank that holds Loans denominated in Yen confirms to the Administrative Agent and to Borrower (on the date hereof or, in the case of a Bank that holds Loans denominated in Yen which becomes a party hereto pursuant to a transfer or assignment, on the date on which the relevant transfer or assignment becomes effective) that it is Qualified Institutional Investor and each Bank shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and Borrower if there is any change in its status as a Qualified Institutional Investor.
 
               (f) Each Bank that holds Loans denominated in Yen will promptly on request by any Qualified Borrower incorporated under the laws of Japan or borrowing through its registered branch in Japan take all reasonable steps (if any) required to be taken to establish entitlement to exemption for such Qualified Borrower from withholding under any applicable Japanese laws and any applicable double tax treaty, including satisfying any reasonable information, reporting or other requirement and completion and filing of relevant forms, claims, declarations and similar documents and shall provide such Qualified Borrower with copies of all forms, claims, declarations and similar documents filed for such purpose.
               (g) Each Bank that holds Loans denominated in Yen which is established under the laws of a jurisdiction other than Japan and which is acting hereunder through a Lending Office in Japan agrees that it shall, if necessary, from time to time obtain from the relevant tax authorities a certificate certifying that such payment constitutes domestic source income (as provided for in Article 180 of the Income Tax Law (Law No. 33, 1965)) and deliver such certificate to each Qualified Borrower as required by Article 180, unless prevented from so doing as a result of the introduction of, or any change in, or any change in the interpretation or the application of, any law or regulation or as a result of compliance with any law or regulation made after the date of this Agreement. Upon reasonable demand by Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any applicable Bank, the Administrative Agent or applicable Bank, as the case may be, shall deliver to Borrower, or to such government or taxing authority as Borrower may reasonably direct, any form or document that may be required or reasonably requested in writing in order to allow Borrower or the applicable Qualified Borrower to make a payment to or for the account of such Bank or the Administrative Agent hereunder or under any other Loan Document without any deduction or withholding for or on account of any Non-Excluded Taxes or with such deduction or withholding at a reduced rate (so long as the completion, execution or submission of such form or document would not materially prejudice the legal or commercial position of the party in receipt of such demand), with any such form or document to be accurate and completed in a manner reasonably satisfactory to Borrower or the applicable Qualified Borrower making such demand and to be executed and to be delivered with any reasonably required certification.
               (h) Each Bank organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Bank listed on the signature pages hereof and on or prior to the date on which it becomes a Bank in the case of each other Bank, shall provide the Borrower with (A) two duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service form 1001 or any successor form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, and (B) an Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI, as appropriate, or any successor form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, and shall provide Borrower with two further copies of any such form or certification on or before the date that any such form or certification expires or becomes obsolete and after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the most recent form previously delivered by it to Borrower, certifying (i) in the case of a Form 1001, that such Bank is entitled to benefits under an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party which reduces the rate of withholding tax on payments of interest or certifying that the income receivable pursuant to this Agreement is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States, and (ii) in the case of a Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI, that it is entitled to an exemption from United States backup withholding tax. If the form provided by a Bank at the time such Bank first becomes a party to
 
this Agreement indicates a United States interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from "Non-Excluded Taxes" as defined in Section 8.4(a).
               (i) Upon reasonable demand by Borrower or any Qualified Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Bank, the Administrative Agent or Bank, as the case may be, shall deliver to the Borrower or Qualified Borrower, or to such government or taxing authority as the Borrower or Qualified Borrower may reasonably direct, any form or document that may be required or reasonably requested in writing in order to allow the Borrower or Qualified Borrower to make a payment to or for the account of such Bank or the Administrative Agent hereunder or under any other Loan Document without any deduction or withholding for or on account of any Non-Excluded Taxes or with such deduction or withholding at a reduced rate (so long as the completion, execution or submission of such form or document would not materially prejudice the legal or commercial position of the party in receipt of such demand), with any such form or document to be accurate and completed in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower or Qualified Borrower making such demand and to be executed and to be delivered with any reasonably required certification.
               (j) For any period with respect to which a Bank has failed to provide the Borrower with the appropriate form pursuant to Section 8.4(d) (unless such failure is due to a change in treaty, law or regulation occurring subsequent to the date on which a form originally was required to be provided), such Bank shall not be entitled to indemnification under Section 8.4(c) with respect to Non-Excluded Taxes imposed by the United States; provided, however, that should a Bank, which is otherwise exempt from or subject to a reduced rate of withholding tax, become subject to Non-Excluded Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form required hereunder, the Borrower shall take such steps as such Bank shall reasonably request to assist such Bank to recover such Taxes so long as Borrower shall incur no cost or liability as a result thereof.
               (k) If the Borrower is required to pay additional amounts to or for the account of any Bank pursuant to this Section 8.4, then such Bank will change the jurisdiction of its Applicable Lending Office so as to eliminate or reduce any such additional payment which may thereafter accrue if such change, in the judgment of such Bank, is not otherwise disadvantageous to such Bank.
               (l) If at any time, any Bank shall be owed amounts pursuant to this Section 8.4, the Borrower shall have the right, upon five (5) Business Day's notice to the Administrative Agent to either (x) cause a bank, reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, to offer to purchase the Commitments of such Bank for an amount equal to such Bank's outstanding Loans, and to become a Bank hereunder, or to obtain the agreement of one or more existing Banks to offer to purchase the Commitments of such Bank for such amount, which offer such Bank is hereby required to accept, or (y) to repay in full all Loans then outstanding of such Bank, together with interest and all other amounts due thereon, upon which event, such Bank's Commitment shall be deemed to be canceled pursuant to Section 2.11(c).
          SECTION 8.5. . If (i) the obligation of any Bank to make Euro-Dollar Loans has been suspended pursuant to
Base Rate Loans Substituted for Affected Euro-Dollar Loans
 
Section 8.2 or (ii) any Bank has demanded compensation under Section 8.3 or 8.4 with respect to its Euro-Dollar Loans and the Borrower shall, by at least five Business Days' prior notice to such Bank through the Administrative Agent, have elected that the provisions of this Section shall apply to such Bank, then, unless and until such Bank notifies the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such suspension or demand for compensation no longer exist:
               (a) Borrower shall be deemed to have delivered a Notice of Interest Rate Election with respect to such affected Euro-Dollar Loans and thereafter all Loans which would otherwise be made by such Bank to the Borrower as Dollar-denominated Euro-Dollar Loans shall be made instead as Base Rate Loans, and no Borrowing from such Bank would take effect with respect to Loans denominated in an Alternate Currency; and
               (b) after each of its Euro-Dollar Loans has been repaid, all payments of principal which would otherwise be applied to repay such Euro-Dollar Loans shall be applied to repay its Base Rate Loans instead, and
               (c) Borrower will not be required to make any payment which would otherwise be required by Section 2.14 with respect to such Euro-Dollar Loans converted to Base Rate Loans pursuant to clause (a) above.
          SECTION 9.1. . All notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall be in writing (including bank wire, telex, facsimile transmission followed by telephonic confirmation or similar writing) and shall be given to such party: (x) in the case of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent (JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.) or the Administrative Agent (J.P. Morgan Europe Limited) or the Administrative Agent (Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation) , at its address, telex number or facsimile number set forth on the signature page hereof with duplicate copies thereof, in the case of the Borrower, to the Borrower, at its address set forth on the signature page hereof, Attn: General Counsel, as well as to DLA Piper LLP (US), 203 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1900, Chicago, Illinois 60601, Attention: James M. Phipps, Esq., (y) in the case of any Bank, at its address, telex number or facsimile number set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire or (z) in the case of any party, such other address, telex number or facsimile number as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose by notice to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower. Each such notice, request or other communication shall be effective (i) if given by telex or facsimile transmission, when such telex or facsimile is transmitted to the telex number or facsimile number specified in this Section and the appropriate answerback or facsimile confirmation is received, (ii) if given by certified registered mail, return receipt requested, with first class postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid, upon receipt or refusal to accept delivery, (iii) if given by a nationally recognized overnight carrier, 24 hours after such communication is deposited with such carrier with postage prepaid for next day delivery, or (iv) if given by any other means, when delivered at the address specified in this Section; provided that notices to the Administrative Agent under Article II or Article VIII shall not be effective until received.
Notices
 
          SECTION 9.2. . No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Bank in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
No Waivers
          SECTION 9.3. .
Expenses; Indemnification
               (a) The Borrower shall pay within thirty (30) days after written notice from the Administrative Agent, (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the Administrative Agent (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of special counsel Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP ), in connection with the preparation of this Agreement, the Loan Documents and the documents and instruments referred to therein, and any waiver or consent hereunder or any amendment hereof or any Default or alleged Default hereunder, (ii) all reasonable fees and disbursements of special counsel in connection with the syndication of the Loans, and (iii) if an Event of Default occurs, all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and each Bank, including, without limitation, fees and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent and each of the Banks, in connection with the enforcement of the Loan Documents and the instruments referred to therein and such Event of Default and collection, bankruptcy, insolvency and other enforcement proceedings resulting therefrom; provided, however, that the attorneys' fees and disbursements for which Borrower is obligated under this subsection (a)(iii) shall be limited to the reasonable non-duplicative fees and disbursements of (A) counsel for Administrative Agent and (B) counsel for all of the Banks as a group; and provided, further, that all other costs and expenses for which Borrower is obligated under this subsection (a)(iii) shall be limited to the reasonable non-duplicative costs and expenses of Administrative Agent. For purposes of this Section 9.3(a)(iii), (1) counsel for Administrative Agent shall mean a single outside law firm representing Administrative Agent and (2) counsel for all of the Banks as a group shall mean a single outside law firm representing such Banks as a group (which law firm may or may not be the same law firm representing the Administrative Agent).
               (b) The Borrower agrees to indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Bank, their respective affiliates and the respective directors, officers, agents and employees of the foregoing (each an "Indemnitee") and hold each Indemnitee harmless from and against any and all liabilities, losses, damages, costs and expenses of any kind, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel, which may be incurred by such Indemnitee in connection with any investigative, administrative or judicial proceeding that may at any time (including, without limitation, at any time following the payment of the Obligations) be asserted against any Indemnitee, as a result of, or arising out of, or in any way related to or by reason of, (i) any of the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents or the execution, delivery or performance of any Loan Document, (ii) any violation by the Borrower or the Environmental Affiliates of any applicable Environmental Law, (iii) any Environmental Claim arising out of the management, use, control, ownership or operation of property or assets by the Borrower or any of the Environmental Affiliates, including, without limitation, all on-site and off-site activities of Borrower or any Environmental Affiliate involving Materials of Environmental Concern, (iv) the breach of any environmental representation or warranty set forth herein, but excluding those
 
liabilities, losses, damages, costs and expenses (a) for which such Indemnitee has been compensated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, (b) incurred solely by reason of the gross negligence, willful misconduct bad faith or fraud of any Indemnitee as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, (c) arising from violations of Environmental Laws relating to a Property which are caused by the act or omission of such Indemnitee after such Indemnitee takes possession of such Property or (d) owing by such Indemnitee to any third party based upon contractual obligations of such Indemnitee owing to such third party which are not expressly set forth in the Loan Documents. In addition, the indemnification set forth in this Section 9.3(b) in favor of any director, officer, agent or employee of Administrative Agent or any Bank shall be solely in their respective capacities as such director, officer, agent or employee. The Borrower's obligations under this Section shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Obligations. Without limitation of the other provisions of this Section 9.3, Borrower shall indemnify and hold each of the Administrative Agent and the Banks free and harmless from and against all loss, costs (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses), expenses, taxes, and damages (including consequential damages) that the Administrative Agent and the Banks may suffer or incur by reason of the investigation, defense and settlement of claims and in obtaining any prohibited transaction exemption under ERISA or the Code necessary in the Administrative Agent's reasonable judgment by reason of the inaccuracy of the representations and warranties, or a breach of the provisions, set forth in Section 4.6(b).
          SECTION 9.4. . In addition to any rights now or hereafter granted under applicable law or otherwise, and not by way of limitation of any such rights, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, each Bank is hereby authorized at any time or from time to time, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind to the Borrower or to any other Person, any such notice being hereby expressly waived, but subject to the prior consent of the Administrative Agent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, to set off and to appropriate and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) and any other indebtedness at any time held or owing by such Bank (including, without limitation, by branches and agencies of such Bank wherever located) to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower or any Qualified Borrower against and on account of the Obligations of the Borrower or any Qualified Borrower then due and payable to such Bank under this Agreement or under any of the other Loan Documents, including, without limitation, all interests in Obligations purchased by such Bank. Each Bank agrees that if it shall by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, receive payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of principal and interest due with respect to any Note held by it, which is greater than the proportion received by any other Bank, the Bank receiving such proportionately greater payment shall purchase such participations in the Notes held by the other Banks, and such other adjustments shall be made, as may be required so that all such payments of principal and interest with respect to the Notes held by the Banks shall be shared by the Banks pro rata; provided that nothing in this Section shall impair the right of any Bank to exercise any right of set-off or counterclaim it may have to any deposits not received in connection with the Loans and to apply the amount subject to such exercise to the payment of indebtedness of the Borrower or Qualified Borrower other than its indebtedness under the Notes. The Borrower, for itself and on behalf of any Qualified Borrower, agrees, to the fullest extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any holder of a participation in a Note, whether or not acquired pursuant to the foregoing arrangements, may exercise rights of set-off or counterclaim and other rights with respect to such participation as fully as if such holder of a
Sharing of Set-Offs
 
participation were a direct creditor of the Borrower or the applicable Qualified Borrower in the amount of such participation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Bank may, by separate agreement with the Borrower or a Qualified Borrower, waive its right to set off contained herein or granted by law and any such written waiver shall be effective against such Bank under this Section 9.4.
          SECTION 9.5. . (a) Any provision of this Agreement or the Notes or other Loan Documents may be amended or waived if, but only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and is signed by the Borrower and the Majority Banks (and, if the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent or the Syndication Agent in their capacity as Administrative Agent or Syndication Agent, as applicable, are affected thereby, by the Administrative Agent or the Syndication Agent, as applicable, which shall be deemed to include Section 9.16); provided that no amendment or waiver with respect to this Agreement, the Notes or any other Loan Documents shall, unless signed by all the Banks, (i) increase or decrease the Commitment of any Bank (except for a ratable decrease in the Commitments of all Banks) or subject any Bank to any additional obligation, (ii) reduce the principal of or rate of interest on any Loan or any fees hereunder, (iii) postpone the date fixed for any payment of principal of or interest on any Loan or any fees hereunder or for any reduction or termination of any Commitment, (iv) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Notes, or the number of Banks, which shall be required for the Banks or any of them to take any action under this Section or any other provision of this Agreement, (v) release the Guaranty or any Qualified Borrower Guaranty, or (vi) modify the provisions of this Section 9.5.
Amendments and Waivers
               (b) The provisions in Sections 5.1, 5.8 through 5.14 and 6.1(b) through (r) of this Agreement, as well as the definition of "Applicable Margin" (the language contained therein other than with respect to the actual margins) and "Investment Grade Rating", contain essentially the same provisions with respect to the Guarantor and the Borrower as those contained in Sections 5.1, 5.8 through 5.14 and 6.1(b) through (r) of the Third Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement (the ""), dated as of June 1, 2006, among Borrower, the Administrative Agent, as administrative agent, and the other banks party thereto and in such definition of the Revolver (the "AMB Revolver Provisions"). In the event that the Borrower or the Administrative Agent under the Revolver propose to modify, waive or restate, or request a consent or approval with respect to, the AMB Revolver Provisions (and related definitions) (other than a change limited to the actual margins) of the Revolver in writing (which may include a written waiver of an existing actual or potential Default or Event of Default that is intended to be eliminated by such modification, restatement or waiver) (individually, a ""), then simultaneously with the agreement to or granting of such Covenant Modification under the Revolver, this Agreement shall be deemed modified or restated, or waiver, consent or approval granted, in a manner consistent with the Covenant Modifications under the Revolver If requested by Borrower or the Administrative Agent, the Borrower, the Guarantor, the Administrative Agent and each Bank shall execute and deliver a written amendment to, restatement of, or waiver, consent or approval under, this Agreement memorializing such modification, restatement, waiver, consent or approval. In addition, the Borrower will be obligated to pay to the Administrative Agent and the Banks the same fee as the Borrower shall pay to the agents and the lenders under the Revolver in connection with such modification, restatement, waiver, consent or approval.
Revolver
Covenant Modification
 
          SECTION 9.6. .
Successors and Assigns
               (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents without the prior written consent of all Banks and the Administrative Agent and a Bank may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its interest under this Agreement except as permitted in subsection (b) and (c) of this Section 9.6.
               (b) Prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default, any Bank may at any time, grant to an existing Bank, one or more banks, finance companies, insurance companies or other financial institutions which, in the case of the granting of a participation in any Loan denominated in Yen, are Qualified Institutional Investors (a "Participant") in minimum amounts of not less than $5,000,000 (or any lesser amount in the case of participations to an existing Bank) participating interests in its Commitment or any or all of its Loans. After the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, any Bank may at any time grant to any Person in any amount (also a "Participant"), participating interests in its Commitment or any or all of its Loans. Any participation made during the continuation of an Event of Default shall not be affected by the subsequent cure of such Event of Default. In the event of any such grant by a Bank of a participating interest to a Participant, whether or not upon notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, such Bank shall remain responsible for the performance of its obligations hereunder, and the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Bank in connection with such Bank's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement pursuant to which any Bank may grant such a participating interest shall provide that such Bank shall retain the sole right and responsibility to enforce the obligations of the Borrower hereunder including, without limitation, the right to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; provided that such participation agreement may provide that such Bank will not agree to any modification, amendment or waiver of this Agreement described in clause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) of Section 9.5 without the consent of the Participant. The Borrower agrees that each Participant shall, to the extent provided in its participation agreement, be entitled to the benefits of Article VIII with respect to its participating interest.
               (c) Any Bank may at any time assign to a Qualified Institution which, in the case of any assignment of any Loan denominated in Yen, is also a Qualified Institutional Investor (in each case, an "Assignee") (i) prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default, in minimum amounts of not less than Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) and integral multiple of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) thereafter (or any lesser amount in the case of assignments to an existing Bank) and (ii) after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, in any amount, all or a proportionate part of all, of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, the Notes and the other Loan Documents, and, in either case, such Assignee shall assume such rights and obligations, pursuant to a Transfer Supplement in substantially the form of Exhibit "B" hereto executed by such Assignee and such transferor Bank; provided, that such assignment shall be subject to the Administrative Agent's consent and, provided that no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Borrower's consent, which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; and provided further that if an Assignee is an affiliate of such transferor Bank or was a Bank immediately prior to such assignment, no such consent of
 
Borrower shall be required. Upon execution and delivery of such instrument and payment by such Assignee to such transferor Bank of an amount equal to the purchase price agreed between such transferor Bank and such Assignee, such Assignee shall be a Bank party to this Agreement and shall have all the rights and obligations of a Bank with a Commitment as set forth in such instrument of assumption, and no further consent or action by any party shall be required and the transferor Bank shall be released from its obligations hereunder to a corresponding extent. Upon the consummation of any assignment pursuant to this subsection (c), the transferor Bank, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall make appropriate arrangements so that, if required, a new Note is issued to the Assignee. In connection with any such assignment (other than an assignment by a Bank to an affiliate), the transferor Bank shall pay to the Administrative Agent an administrative fee for processing such assignment in the amount of $3,500. If the Assignee is not incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or a state thereof, it shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent certification as to exemption from deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes in accordance with Section 8.4. Any assignment made during the continuation of an Event of Default shall not be affected by any subsequent cure of such Event of Default.
               (d) Any Bank may at any time assign all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement and its Note, to a Federal Reserve Bank. No such assignment shall release the transferor Bank from its obligations hereunder.
               (e) No Assignee, Participant or other transferee of any Bank's rights shall be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 8.3 or 8.4 than such Bank would have been entitled to receive with respect to the rights transferred, unless such transfer is made with the Borrower's prior written consent or by reason of the provisions of Section 8.2, 8.3 or 8.4 requiring such Bank to designate a different Applicable Lending Office under certain circumstances or at a time when the circumstances giving rise to such greater payment did not exist.
               (f) No Assignee of any rights and obligations under this Agreement shall be permitted to further assign less than all of such rights and obligations. No participant in any rights and obligations under this Agreement shall be permitted to sell subparticipations of such rights and obligations.
               (g) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, so long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, no Bank shall be permitted to enter into an assignment of, or sell a participation interest in, its rights and obligations hereunder which would result in such Bank holding a Commitment without participants of less than Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) (or in the case of each of the Administrative Agent or the Syndication Agent, Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000)) unless as a result of a cancellation or reduction of the aggregate Commitments; provided, however, that no Bank shall be prohibited from assigning its entire Commitment so long as such assignment is otherwise permitted under this Section 9.6.
          SECTION 9.7. . Each of the Banks represents to the Administrative Agent and each of the other Banks that it in good faith is not relying upon any "margin stock" (as
Collateral
 
defined in Regulation U) as collateral in the extension or maintenance of the credit provided for in this Agreement.
          SECTION 9.8. . (a) THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER AND THEREUNDER SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK (WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE PRINCIPLES THEREOF RELATING TO CONFLICTS OF LAW).
Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction; Judgment Currency
               (b) Any legal action or proceeding with respect to this Agreement or any other Loan Document and any action for enforcement of any judgment in respect thereof may be brought in the courts of the State of New York or of the United States of America for the Southern District of New York, and, by execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Borrower hereby accepts for itself and in respect of its property and each Qualified Borrower, generally and unconditionally, the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the aforesaid courts and appellate courts from any thereof. The Borrower irrevocably consents, for itself and each Qualified Borrower, to the service of process out of any of the aforementioned courts in any such action or proceeding by the hand delivery, or mailing of copies thereof by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the Borrower or Qualified Borrower at its address set forth below. The Borrower hereby irrevocably waives, for itself and each Qualified Borrower, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any of the aforesaid actions or proceedings arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document brought in the courts referred to above and hereby further irrevocably waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Nothing herein shall affect the right of the Administrative Agent to serve process in any other manner permitted by law or to commence legal proceedings or otherwise proceed against the Borrower or a Qualified Borrower in any other jurisdiction.
               (c) If for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in one currency into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so under applicable law, that the rate of exchange used shall be the spot rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the first currency could be purchased in New York City with such other currency by the person obtaining such judgment on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
               (d) The parties agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so under applicable law, that the obligations of the Borrower or any Qualified Borrower to make payments in any currency of the principal of and interest on the Loans of the Borrower and any Qualified Borrower and any other amounts due from the Borrower or any Qualified Borrower hereunder to the Administrative Agent as provided herein (i) shall not be discharged or satisfied by any tender, or any recovery pursuant to any judgment (whether or not entered in accordance with Section 9.8(c)), in any currency other than the relevant currency, except to the extent that such tender or recovery shall result in the actual receipt by the Administrative Agent at its relevant office on behalf of the Banks of the full amount of the relevant currency expressed to be payable in respect of the principal of and interest on the Loans and all other amounts due hereunder (it being assumed for purposes of this clause (i) that the Administrative Agent will
 
convert any amount tendered or recovered into the relevant currency on the date of such tender or recovery), (ii) shall be enforceable as an alternative or additional cause of action for the purpose of recovering in the relevant currency the amount, if any, by which such actual receipt shall fall short of the full amount of the relevant currency so expressed to be payable and (iii) shall not be affected by an unrelated judgment being obtained for any other sum due under this Agreement.
          SECTION 9.9. . This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding among the parties hereto and supersedes any and all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement shall become effective upon receipt by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower of counterparts hereof signed by each of the parties hereto (or, in the case of any party as to which an executed counterpart shall not have been received, receipt by the Administrative Agent in form satisfactory to it of telegraphic, telex or other written confirmation from such party of execution of a counterpart hereof by such party).
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
          SECTION 9.10. . EACH OF THE BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE SYNDICATION AGENT AND THE BANKS HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
          SECTION 9.11. . All indemnities set forth herein shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and the making and repayment of the Loans hereunder.
Survival
          SECTION 9.12. . Each Bank may transfer and carry its Loans at, to or for the account of any domestic or foreign branch office, subsidiary or affiliate of such Bank.
Domicile of Loans
          SECTION 9.13. . No claim may be made by the Borrower or any other Person acting by or through Borrower against the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent or any Bank or the affiliates, directors, officers, employees, attorneys or agent of any of them for any punitive damages in respect of any claim for breach of contract or any other theory of liability arising out of or related to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or by the other Loan Documents, or any act, omission or event occurring in connection therewith; and the Borrower hereby, for itself and each Qualified Borrower, waives, releases and agrees not to sue upon any claim for any such damages, whether or not accrued and whether or not known or suspected to exist in its favor.
Limitation of Liability
          SECTION 9.14. . This Agreement and the Obligations hereunder are fully recourse to the Borrower and fully recourse to each Qualified Borrower but only to the extent of the amount of the Loans to each such Qualified Borrower, as evidenced by its Note or Qualified Borrower Undertaking. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant, or agreement contained in this Agreement shall be had against
Recourse Obligation
 
(i) any officer, director, shareholder or employee of the Borrower or General Partner or (ii) any general partner of Borrower other than General Partner, in each case except in the event of fraud or misappropriation of funds on the part of such officer, director, shareholder or employee or such general partner.
          SECTION 9.15. . The Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, the Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners and each Bank shall use reasonable efforts to assure that information about Borrower, General Partner and its Subsidiaries and Investment Affiliates, and the Properties thereof and their operations, affairs and financial condition, not generally disclosed to the public, which is furnished to Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, the Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners or any Bank pursuant to the provisions hereof or any other Loan Document is used only for the purposes of this Agreement and shall not be divulged to any Person other than the Administrative Agent, the Banks, and their affiliates and respective officers, directors, employees and agents who are actively and directly participating in the evaluation, administration or enforcement of the Loan and other transactions between such Bank and the Borrower, except: (a) to their attorneys and accountants, (b) in connection with the enforcement of the rights and exercise of any remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Banks hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (c) in connection with assignments and participations and the solicitation of prospective assignees and participants referred to in Section 9.6 hereof, who have agreed in writing to be bound by a confidentiality agreement substantially equivalent to the terms of this Section 9.15, and (d) as may otherwise be required or requested by any regulatory authority having jurisdiction over the Administrative Agent or any Bank or by any applicable law, rule, regulation or judicial process (but only to the extent not in violation, conflict or inconsistent with the applicable regulatory requirement, request, summons or subpoena); provided, however, that in the event a Bank receives a summons or subpoena to disclose confidential information to any party, such Bank shall, if legally permitted, endeavor to notify Borrower thereof as soon as possible after receipt of such request, summons or subpoena and Borrower shall be afforded an opportunity to seek protective orders, or such other confidential treatment of such disclosed information, as Borrower and Administrative Agent may deem reasonable.
Confidentiality
          SECTION 9.16. .
Defaulting Lenders
               (a) Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Bank becomes a Defaulting Lender, then for so long as such Bank is a Defaulting Lender: the Commitment and Loans of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included in determining whether all Banks or the Required Banks have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment or waiver pursuant to Section 9.5), provided that any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Banks or each affected Banks which affects such Defaulting Lender differently than other affected Banks shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender.
               (b) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Sections 2.5(d), 2.13 (b) or 9.3(b), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion and notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, (i) apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Bank and for the benefit of the Administrative Agent to satisfy such Bank's obligations under such Sections until all such
 
unsatisfied obligations are fully paid, and/or (ii) hold any such amounts in a segregated account as cash collateral for, and application to, any future funding obligations of such Bank under such Sections; in the case of each of (i) and (ii) above, in any order as determined by the Administrative Agent in its discretion."
          SECTION 9.17. . Each Bank, by its signature hereto or on the applicable Transfer Supplement, hereby agrees (a) that on the date any Loan is disbursed hereunder no portion of such Bank's Pro Rata Share of such Loan will constitute "assets" within the meaning of 29 C.F.R.2510.3-101 of an "employee benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA or a "plan" within the meaning of Section 4975(e)(1) of the Code, and (b) that following such date such Bank shall not allocate such Bank's Pro Rata Share of any Loan to an account of such Bank if such allocation (i) by itself would cause such Pro Rata Share of such Loan to then constitute "assets" (within the meaning of 29 C.F.R.2510.3-101) of an "employee benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA or a "plan" within the meaning of Section 4975(e)(1) of the Code and (ii) by itself would cause such Loan to constitute a prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Code (which is not exempt from the restrictions of Section 406 of ERISA and Section 4975 of the Code and the taxes and penalties imposed by Section 4975 of the Code and Section 502(i) of ERISA) or any Agent or Bank being deemed in violation of Section 404 of ERISA.
Banks' ERISA Covenant
          SECTION 9.18. .
Intentionally Omitted
          SECTION 9.19. . At any time prior to the date that is the second anniversary of this Agreement, provided no Event of Default shall have occurred and then be continuing, the Borrower may, if it so elects, increase the aggregate amount of the Commitments (subject to proviso (b) in the next sentence), either by designating a Qualified Institution not theretofore a Bank to become a Bank (such designation to be effective only with the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld) and/or by agreeing with an existing Bank or Banks that such Bank's Commitment shall be increased. Upon execution and delivery by the Borrower and such Bank or other financial institution of an instrument in form reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, such existing Bank shall have a Commitment as therein set forth or such Qualified Institution shall become a Bank with a Commitment as therein set forth and all the rights and obligations of a Bank with such a Commitment hereunder; :
Optional Increase in Commitments
provided that
               (a) the Borrower shall provide prompt notice of such increase to the Administrative Agent, who shall promptly notify the Banks; and
               (b) the amount of such increase, together with all other increases in the aggregate amount of the Commitments pursuant to this Section 9.19 since the date of this Agreement, does not cause the Facility Amount to exceed $425,000,000.
Upon any increase in the aggregate amount of the Commitments pursuant to this Section 9.19, within five Business Days (in the case of any Base Rate Loans then outstanding) or at the end of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto (in the case of any Euro-Dollar Loans then outstanding), as applicable, each Bank's Pro Rata Share shall be recalculated to reflect such increase in the Commitments and the outstanding principal balance of the Loans shall be
 
reallocated among the Banks such that the outstanding principal amount of Loans owed to each Bank shall be equal to such Bank's Pro Rata Share (as recalculated). All payments, repayments and other disbursements of funds by the Administrative Agent to Banks shall thereupon and, at all times thereafter be made in accordance with each Bank's recalculated Pro Rata Share.
          SECTION 9.20. . Each of the Borrower, the Agents and each Bank acknowledges and agrees that (a) the obligations of the Managing Agents, the Documentation Agents and the Co-Agent hereunder shall be limited to those obligations that are expressly set forth herein, if any, and the Managing Agents, Documentation Agents and Co-Agent shall not be required to take any action or assume any liability except as may be required in each of their capacity as a Bank hereunder, and (b) the indemnifications set forth herein for the benefit of the Agents shall also run to the benefit of the Managing Agents, the Documentation Agents and the Co-Agent to the extent any of them incurs any loss, cost or damage arising from its capacity as a Managing Agent, Documentation Agent or a Co-Agent.
Managing Agents, Documentation Agents and Co-Agents
          SECTION 9.21. . Each Bank hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "Act"), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Bank to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
USA PATRIOT Act
          SECTION 9.22. .
Sumitomo Ceasing to be a Qualified Institutional Investor
               (a) Each Bank holding Loans denominated in Yen (each a "Yen Bank") agrees that it shall immediately provide notice to the Administrative Agent and Borrower upon its receipt of knowledge that it will cease to be a Qualified Institutional Investor pursuant to the applicable laws of Japan.
               (b) In the event that during the Term any Yen Bank ceases to be a Qualified Institutional Investor (such Bank, a "Non-QII Bank"), (i) it shall immediately provide notice thereof to the Administrative Agent and Borrower (to the extent it has not already provided such notice pursuant to 9.22(a) above) and (ii) regardless of whether it has actually delivered any such notice to the Administrative Agent and/or Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall have the immediate right, and shall use best efforts, to cause such Non-QII Bank to assign to a Qualified Institutional Investor all of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, the Notes and the other Loan Documents in accordance with Section 9.6(c), subject to the terms and conditions of Section 9.6, as applicable.
               (c) In the event the Administrative Agent is unable to cause the assignment of the Non-QII Bank's rights and obligations under this Agreement, the Notes and the other Loan Documents, Borrower shall have the right at any time to pay in full the Loans of such Non-QII Bank. If, upon payment in full of the Loans of such Non-QII Bank denominated in Yen, such Non-QII Bank does not have any further Loans outstanding hereunder, such Non-QII Bank shall cease to be a Bank hereunder.
 
               (d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Borrower or applicable Qualified Borrower shall have the right at any time to pay in full the Loans denominated in Yen of any Non-Qii Bank.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
TOTAL COMMITMENTS: $345,000,000
 
 
 
 
               Commitment: $60,000,000
 
               Commitment: $50,000,000
 
               Commitment: $50,000,000
 
               Commitment: $25,000,000
 
               Commitment: $20,000,000
 
New York, New York October 15, 2009
     For value received, AMB PROPERTY, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), promises to pay to the order of (the "") the unpaid principal amount of each Loan made by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement referred to below on the maturity date provided for in the Credit Agreement. The Borrower further promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each such Loan from the date advanced until such principal amount is paid in full on the dates and at the rate or rates provided for in the Credit Agreement. All such payments of principal and interest shall be made in lawful money of the United States in Federal or other immediately available funds to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. for the account of the Bank, pursuant to the following wire transfer instructions:
Borrower
                    
                    
Bank
     All Loans made by the Bank, the respective types and maturities thereof and all repayments of the principal thereof shall be recorded by the Bank and, if the Bank so elects in connection with any transfer or enforcement hereof, appropriate notations to evidence the foregoing information with respect to each such Loan then outstanding may be endorsed by the Bank on the schedule attached hereto, or on a continuation of such schedule attached to and made a part hereof; that the failure of the Bank to make any such recordation or endorsement shall not affect the obligations of the Borrower hereunder or under the Credit Agreement.
provided
     This note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is executed and delivered pursuant to and subject to all of the terms of, the Credit Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the Borrower, the Initial Qualified Borrowers, the banks listed on the signature pages thereof, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan Europe Limited and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Administrative Agents, and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners (as the same may be amended from time to time, the ""). Capitalized terms used herein but not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Credit Agreement. The terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference as though fully set forth herein. Upon the occurrence of certain Events of Default as more particularly described in the Credit Agreement, the unpaid principal amount evidenced by this Note shall become, and upon the occurrence and during the continuance of certain other Events
Credit Agreement
 
of Default, such unpaid principal amount may be declared to be, due and payable in the manner, upon the conditions and with the effect provided in the Credit Agreement.
     Demand, presentment, diligence, protest and notice of nonpayment are hereby waived by the Borrower.
     
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
 
New York, New York October __, 2009
     For value received, , a (the ""), promises to pay to the order of (the "") the unpaid principal amount of each Loan made by the Bank to the Qualified Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement referred to below on the maturity date provided for in the Credit Agreement. The Qualified Borrower further promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each such Loan from the date advanced until such principal amount is paid in full on the dates and at the rate or rates provided for in the Credit Agreement. All such payments of principal and interest shall be made in [Euros/Yen] in immediately available funds to [J.P. Morgan Europe Limited] for the account of the Bank, pursuant to the following wire transfer instructions:
                    
                    
                    
                    
Qualified Borrower
                    
                    
Bank
     All Loans made by the Bank, the respective types and maturities thereof and all repayments of the principal thereof shall be recorded by the Bank and, if the Bank so elects in connection with any transfer or enforcement hereof, appropriate notations to evidence the foregoing information with respect to each such Loan then outstanding may be endorsed by the Bank on the schedule attached hereto, or on a continuation of such schedule attached to and made a part hereof; that the failure of the Bank to make any such recordation or endorsement shall not affect the obligations of the Qualified Borrower hereunder or under the Credit Agreement.
provided
     This note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is executed and delivered pursuant to and subject to all of the terms of, the Credit Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the AMB Property, L.P., the other Initial Qualified Borrower, the banks listed on the signature pages thereof, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan Europe Limited and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Administrative Agents, and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners (as the same may be amended from time to time, the ""). Capitalized terms used herein but not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Credit Agreement. The terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference as though fully set forth herein. Upon the occurrence of certain Events
Credit Agreement
 
of Default as more particularly described in the Credit Agreement, the unpaid principal amount evidenced by this Note shall become, and upon the occurrence and during the continuance of certain other Events of Default, such unpaid principal amount may be declared to be, due and payable in the manner, upon the conditions and with the effect provided in the Credit Agreement.
     Demand, presentment, diligence, protest and notice of nonpayment are hereby waived by the Qualified Borrower.
     
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
 
          UNDERTAKING, dated as of , 200___ (this "Undertaking"), by [] TMK, a Japan tokutei mokuteki kaisha (the "Borrower"), in favor of SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORPORATION (the "Administrative Agent").
                    
                    
                     
          For value received, the Borrower undertakes to pay to the order of the Administrative Agent the unpaid principal amount of each Loan made by any of the Banks to the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement referred to below on the maturity date provided for in the Credit Agreement. The Borrower further undertakes to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each such Loan from the date advanced until such principal amount is paid in full on the dates and at the rate or rates provided for in the Credit Agreement. All such payments of principal and interest shall be made in lawful money of Japan to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Banks, pursuant to wire transfer instructions given by the Administrative Agent from time to time.
          All Loans made by the Banks, the respective types and maturities thereof and all repayments of the principal thereof shall be recorded by the Administrative Agent and, if the Administrative Agent so elects in connection with any transfer or enforcement hereof, appropriate notations to evidence the foregoing information with respect to each such Loan then outstanding may be endorsed by the Administrative Agent on the schedule attached hereto, or on a continuation of such schedule attached to and made a part hereof; provided that the failure of the Administrative Agent to make any such recordation or endorsement shall not affect the obligations of the Borrower hereunder or under the Credit Agreement.
          This undertaking is one of the Qualified Borrower Undertakings referred to in, and is executed and delivered pursuant to and subject to all of the terms of, the Credit Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the AMB Property, L.P., the Borrower, the other Initial Qualified Borrower, the banks listed on the signature pages thereof, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan Europe Limited and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Administrative Agents, and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners (as the same may be amended from time to time, the ""). Capitalized terms used herein but not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Credit Agreement. The terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference as though fully set forth herein. Upon the occurrence of certain Events of Default as more particularly described in the Credit Agreement, the unpaid principal amount evidenced by this Undertaking shall become, and upon the occurrence and during the continuance of certain other Events of Default, such unpaid principal amount may be declared to be, due and payable in the manner, upon the conditions and with the effect provided in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
          Demand, presentment, diligence, protest and notice of nonpayment are hereby waived by the Borrower.
 
          This Undertaking is being executed outside of Japan.
          
THIS UNDERTAKING SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
[]
                    
                    
 
     TRANSFER SUPPLEMENT (this "") dated as of , 200___ between (the "") and having an address at (the "").
Transfer Supplement
                    
                    
                    
Assignor
                    
                     
                    
                    
Purchasing Bank
     WHEREAS, the Assignor has made loans to AMB Property, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), pursuant to the Credit Agreement, dated as of October ___, 2009, among the Borrower, the Initial Qualified Borrowers, the banks listed on the signature pages thereof, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners (the "Credit Agreement"). All capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement;
Borrower
     WHEREAS, the Purchasing Bank desires to purchase and assume from the Assignor, and the Assignor desires to sell and assign to the Purchasing Bank, certain rights, title, interest and obligations under the Credit Agreement;
     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED:
     1. In consideration of the amount set forth in the receipt (the "") given by Assignor to Purchasing Bank of even date herewith, and transferred by wire to Assignor, the Assignor hereby assigns and sells, without recourse, representation or warranty except as specifically set forth herein, to the Purchasing Bank, and the Purchasing Bank hereby purchases and assumes from the Assignor, a ___% interest (the "") of the Loans constituting a portion of the Assignor's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement as of the Effective Date (as defined below) including, without limitation, such percentage interest of the Assignor in any Loans owing to the Assignor, any Note held by the Assignor, any Loan Commitment of the Assignor and any other interest of the Assignor under any of the Loan Documents.
Receipt
Purchased Interest
     2. The Assignor (i) represents and warrants that as of the date hereof the aggregate outstanding principal amount of its share of the Loans owing to it (without giving effect to assignments thereof which have not yet become effective) is $_________; (ii) represents and warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interests being assigned by it hereunder and that such interests are free and clear of any adverse claim; (iii) represents and warrants that it has not received any notice of Default or Event of Default from the Borrower; (iv) represents and warrants that is has full power and authority to execute and deliver, and perform under, this Transfer Supplement, and all necessary corporate and/or partnership action has been taken to authorize, and all approvals and consents have been obtained for, the execution, delivery and performance thereof; (v) represents and warrants that this Transfer Supplement constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable in accordance with its terms; (vi) makes no
 
representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations (or the truthfulness or accuracy thereof) made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement, or the other Loan Documents or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement, or the other Loan Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; and (vii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under the Credit Agreement or the other Loan Documents or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto. Except as specifically set forth in this Paragraph 2, this assignment shall be without recourse to Assignor.
     3. The Purchasing Bank (i) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and the other Loan Documents, together with such financial statements and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Transfer Supplement and to become a party to the Credit Agreement, and has not relied on any statements made by Assignor; (ii) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon any of the Administrative Agent, the Documentation Agent, the Syndication Agent, the Assignor or any other Bank and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, operations, property, prospects, financial and other conditions and creditworthiness of the Borrower and will make its own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement, and the other Loan Documents; (iii) appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent, the Documentation Agent and the Syndication Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under the Credit Agreement, and the other Loan Documents as are delegated to such agents by the terms thereof, together with such powers as are incidental thereto; (iv) agrees that it will be bound by and perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Bank; (v) specifies as its addresses for notices, its Domestic Lending Office and its Eurodollar Lending office, the addresses and offices set forth beneath its name on the signature page hereof; (vi) represents and warrants that it has full power and authority to execute and deliver, and perform under, this Transfer Supplement, and all necessary corporate and/or partnership action has been taken to authorize, and all approvals and consents have been obtained for, the execution, delivery and performance thereof; (vii) represents and warrants that this Transfer Supplement constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable in accordance with its terms; and (viii) represents and warrants that the interest being assigned hereunder is being acquired by it for its own account, for investment purposes only and not with a view to the public distribution thereof and without any present intention of its resale in either case that would be in violation of applicable securities laws [and (ix) represents and warrants that it satisfies the requirements of a Qualified Institutional Investor]..
1
     4. This Transfer Supplement shall be effective on the date (the "") on which all of the following have occurred (i) it shall have been executed and delivered by the
Effective Date
 
 
parties hereto, (ii) copies hereof shall have been delivered to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, (iii) the Purchasing Bank shall have received an original Note, and (iv) the Purchasing Bank shall have paid to the Assignor the agreed purchase price as set forth in the Receipt.
     5. On and after the Effective Date, (i) the Purchasing Bank shall be a party to the Credit Agreement and, to the extent provided in this Transfer Supplement, have the rights and obligations of a Bank thereunder and be entitled to the benefits and rights of the Banks thereunder and (ii) the Assignor shall, to the extent provided in this Transfer Supplement as to the Purchased Interest, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under the Credit Agreement.
     6. From and after the Effective Date, the Assignor shall cause the Administrative Agent to make all payments under the Credit Agreement, and the Notes in respect of the Purchased Interest assigned hereby (including, without limitation, all payments of principal, fees and interest with respect thereto and any amounts accrued but not paid prior to such date) to the Purchasing Bank.
     7. This Transfer Supplement may be executed in any number of counterparts which, when taken together, shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument.
     8. Assignor hereby represents and warrants to Purchasing Bank that it has made all payments demanded to date by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, in connection with the Assignor's Pro Rata Share of the obligation to reimburse the Agent for its expenses and made all Loans required. In the event JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A, as Administrative Agent, shall demand reimbursement for fees and expenses from Purchasing Bank for any period prior to the Effective Date, Assignor hereby agrees to promptly pay JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A, as Administrative Agent, such sums directly, subject, however, to Paragraph 12 hereof.
     9. Assignor will, at the cost of Assignor, and without expense to Purchasing Bank, do, execute, acknowledge and deliver all and every such further acts, deeds, conveyances, assignments, notices of assignments, transfers and assurances as Purchasing Bank shall, from time to time, reasonably require, for the better assuring, conveying, assigning, transferring and confirming unto Purchasing Bank the property and rights hereby given, granted, bargained, sold, aliened, enfeoffed, conveyed, confirmed, assigned and/or intended now or hereafter so to be, on which Assignor may be or may hereafter become bound to convey or assign to Purchasing Bank, or for carrying out the intention or facilitating the performance of the terms of this Agreement or for filing, registering or recording this Agreement.
     10. The parties agree that no broker or finder was instrumental in bringing about this transaction. Each party shall indemnify, defend the other and hold the other free and harmless from and against any damages, costs or expenses (including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) suffered by such party arising from claims by any broker or finder that such broker or finder has dealt with said party in connection with this transaction.
     11. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph 12 hereof, if, with respect to the Purchased Interest only, Assignor shall on or after the Effective Date receive (a) any cash, note, securities,
 
property, obligations or other consideration in respect of or relating to the Loan or the Loan Documents or issued in substitution or replacement of the Loan or the Loan Documents, (b) any cash or non-cash consideration in any form whatsoever distributed, paid or issued in any bankruptcy proceeding in connection with the Loan or the Loan Documents or (c) any other distribution (whether by means of repayment, redemption, realization of security or otherwise), Assignor shall accept the same as Purchasing Bank's agent and hold the same in trust on behalf of and for the benefit of Purchasing Bank, and shall deliver the same forthwith to Purchasing Bank in the same form received, with the endorsement (without recourse) of Assignor when necessary or appropriate. If the Assignor shall fail to deliver any funds received by it within the same Business Day of receipt, unless such funds are received by Assignor after 4:00 p.m., Eastern Standard Time, then the following Business Day after receipt, said funds shall accrue interest at the Federal Funds Rate and in addition to promptly remitting said amount, Assignor shall remit such interest from the date received to the date such amount is remitted to the Purchasing Bank.
     12. Assignor and Purchasing Bank each hereby agree to indemnify and hold harmless the other, each of its directors and each of its officers in connection with any claim or cause of action based on any matter or claim based on the acts of either while acting as a Bank under the Credit Agreement. Promptly after receipt by the indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party shall notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof. If any such action is brought against any indemnified party and that party notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party shall be entitled to participate therein, and to the extent that it may elect by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party, and after receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof. In no event shall the indemnified party settle or consent to a settlement of such cause of action or claim without the consent of the indemnifying party.
     13. THIS TRANSFER SUPPLEMENT AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
     14. On or promptly after the Effective Date, Borrower, Administrative Agent, Assignor and Purchasing Bank shall make appropriate arrangements so that a Note executed by Borrower, dated the Effective Date is issued to Purchasing Bank.
 
     [15. On or before the Effective Date, Purchasing Bank shall comply with the provisions of Section 8.4(d) of the Credit Agreement.] [Include only if Purchasing Bank is a foreign institution.]
 
 
 
 
          AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a Japanese
tokurei yugen kaisha
          AMB European Investments, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
 
 
     The employees of Borrower may currently participate in a 401(k) Plan.
     Other benefits for employees include: health care plans, dental care, vision care, stock option and incentive plan, non-qualified deferred compensation plan (for officers only), life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment plan, flexible spending account, travel/accident insurance, short-term disability, long-term disability, sick time, vacation time, personal days, holidays, employee assistance program, work/life benefits, and direct paycheck deposit.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
          GUARANTY OF PAYMENT (this ""), made as of October 15, 2009, by AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION, a Maryland corporation, having an address at Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111 (""), for the benefit of JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "") for the banks (the "") that are from time to time parties to that certain Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), dated as of the date hereof, among AMB Property, L.P. (the ""), the banks listed on the signature pages thereof, the Administrative Agent, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Syndication Agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, and CALYON CREDIT AGRICOLE CIB, NEW YORK BRANCH, U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION and HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Documentation Agents.
Guaranty
Guarantor
Administrative Agent
Banks
Borrower
          WHEREAS, the Banks have agreed to make loans to Borrower in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed Three Hundred Forty Five Million Dollars ($345,000,000) or, in the event that Borrower exercises its rights pursuant to Section 9.19 of the Credit Agreement, Four Hundred Twenty Five Million Dollars ($425,000,000) (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "");
Loans
          WHEREAS, the Loans are and will be evidenced by (i) certain promissory notes of Borrower made to each of the Banks, and (ii) certain promissory notes of one or more Qualified Borrowers made to each of the Banks, in each case in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement (collectively, the "");
Notes
          WHEREAS, the Credit Agreement and the Notes and any other documents executed in connection therewith are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "";
Loan Documents
          WHEREAS, capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Credit Agreement;
          WHEREAS, Guarantor is the sole general partner of Borrower;
          WHEREAS, Borrower has executed the Qualified Borrower Guaranty as contemplated by the Credit Agreement;
          WHEREAS, as a condition to the execution and delivery of the Loan Documents, the Banks have required that Guarantor execute and deliver this Guaranty of Payment; and
          NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the benefits to be derived from the making of the Loans by the Banks to Borrower, and in order to induce the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, the Documentation Agents, the Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookmanagers and the Banks to enter into the Credit Agreement and the
 
other Loan Documents, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Guarantor hereby agrees as follows:
          1. Guarantor, on behalf of itself and its successors and assigns, hereby irrevocably, absolutely and unconditionally guarantees the full and punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity or otherwise, of all Obligations of Borrower now or hereafter existing under the Notes and the Credit Agreement, including in the event that the Borrower exercises its rights under the Credit Agreement to increase the Facility Amount and including those Obligations of Borrower under the Qualified Borrower Guaranty, for principal and/or interest as well as any and all other amounts due thereunder, including, without limitation, all indemnity obligations of Borrower thereunder, and any and all reasonable costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) incurred by the Administrative Agent and/or the Banks in enforcing their rights under this Guaranty (all of the foregoing obligations being the "").
Guaranteed Obligations
          2. It is agreed that the Guaranteed Obligations of Guarantor hereunder are primary and this Guaranty shall be enforceable against Guarantor and its successors and assigns without the necessity for any suit or proceeding of any kind or nature whatsoever brought by the Administrative Agent or any of the Banks against Borrower or its respective successors or assigns or any other party or against any security for the payment and performance of the Guaranteed Obligations and without the necessity of any notice of non-payment or non-observance or of any notice of acceptance of this Guaranty or of any notice or demand to which Guarantor might otherwise be entitled (including, without limitation, diligence, presentment, notice of maturity, extension of time, change in nature or form of the Guaranteed Obligations, acceptance of further security, release of further security, imposition or agreement arrived at as to the amount of or the terms of the Guaranteed Obligations, notice of adverse change in Borrower's financial condition and any other fact which might materially increase the risk to Guarantor), all of which Guarantor hereby expressly waives; and Guarantor hereby expressly agrees that the validity of this Guaranty and the obligations of Guarantor hereunder shall in no way be terminated, affected, diminished, modified or impaired by reason of the assertion of or the failure to assert by the Administrative Agent or any of the Banks against Borrower or its respective successors or assigns, any of the rights or remedies reserved to the Administrative Agent or any of the Banks pursuant to the provisions of the Loan Documents. Guarantor agrees that any notice or directive given at any time to the Administrative Agent or any of the Banks which is inconsistent with the waiver in the immediately preceding sentence shall be void and may be ignored by the Administrative Agent and the Banks, and, in addition, may not be pleaded or introduced as evidence in any litigation relating to this Guaranty for the reason that such pleading or introduction would be at variance with the written terms of this Guaranty, unless the Administrative Agent has specifically agreed otherwise in a writing, signed by a duly authorized officer. Guarantor specifically acknowledges and agrees that the foregoing waivers are of the essence of this transaction and that, but for this Guaranty and such waivers, the Administrative Agent and the Banks would not make the requested Loan to the Borrower.
          3. Guarantor waives, and covenants and agrees that it will not at any time insist upon, plead or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any and all appraisal, valuation, stay, extension, marshaling-of-assets or redemption laws, or right of homestead or exemption, whether now or at any time hereafter in force, which may delay,
 
prevent or otherwise affect the performance by Guarantor of its obligations under, or the enforcement by the Administrative Agent or any of the Banks of, this Guaranty. Guarantor further covenants and agrees not to set up or claim any defense, counterclaim, offset, setoff or other objection of any kind to any action, suit or proceeding in law, equity or otherwise, or to any demand or claim that may be instituted or made by the Administrative Agent or any of the Banks other than the defense of the actual timely payment and performance by Borrower of the Guaranteed Obligations hereunder; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not be deemed a waiver of Guarantor's right to assert any compulsory counterclaim, if such counterclaim is compelled under local law or rule of procedure, nor shall the foregoing be deemed a waiver of Guarantor's right to assert any claim which would constitute a defense, setoff, counterclaim or crossclaim of any nature whatsoever against Administrative Agent or any Bank in any separate action or proceeding. Guarantor represents, warrants and agrees that, as of the date hereof, its obligations under this Guaranty are not subject to any counterclaims, offsets or defenses against the Administrative Agent or any Bank of any kind.
          4. The provisions of this Guaranty are for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Banks and their successors and permitted assigns, and nothing herein contained shall impair as between Borrower and the Administrative Agent and the Banks the obligations of Borrower under the Loan Documents.
          5. This Guaranty shall be a continuing, unconditional and absolute guaranty and the liability of Guarantor hereunder shall in no way be terminated, affected, modified, impaired or diminished by reason of the happening, from time to time, of any of the following, all without notice or the further consent of Guarantor:
     (a) any assignment, amendment, modification or waiver of or change in any of the terms, covenants, conditions or provisions of any of the Guaranteed Obligations or the Loan Documents or the invalidity or unenforceability of any of the foregoing; or
     (b) any extension of time that may be granted by the Administrative Agent to Borrower, any guarantor, or their respective successors or assigns, heirs, executors, administrators or personal representatives; or
     (c) any action which the Administrative Agent may take or fail to take under or in respect of any of the Loan Documents or by reason of any waiver of, or failure to enforce any of the rights, remedies, powers or privileges available to the Administrative Agent under this Guaranty or available to the Administrative Agent at law, equity or otherwise, or any action on the part of the Administrative Agent granting indulgence or extension in any form whatsoever; or
     (d) any sale, exchange, release, or other disposition of any property pledged, mortgaged or conveyed, or any property in which the Administrative Agent and/or the Banks have been granted a lien or security interest to secure any indebtedness of Borrower to the Administrative Agent and/or the Banks; or
 
     (e) any release of any person or entity who may be liable in any manner for the payment and collection of any amounts owed by Borrower to the Administrative Agent and/or the Banks; or
     (f) the application of any sums by whomsoever paid or however realized to any amounts owing by Borrower to the Administrative Agent and/or the Banks under the Loan Documents in such manner as the Administrative Agent shall determine in its sole discretion; or
     (g) Borrower's or Guarantor's voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, sale of all or substantially all of their respective assets and liabilities, appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, sequestrator or conservator for all or any part of Borrower's or Guarantor's assets, insolvency, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization, arrangement, composition or readjustment, or the commencement of other similar proceedings affecting Borrower or Guarantor or any of the assets of any of them, including, without limitation, (i) the release or discharge of Borrower or any guarantor from the payment and performance of their respective obligations under any of the Loan Documents by operation of law, or (ii) the impairment, limitation or modification of the liability of Borrower or any guarantor in bankruptcy, or of any remedy for the enforcement of the Guaranteed Obligations under any of the Loan Documents, or any guarantor's liability under this Guaranty, resulting from the operation of any present or future provisions of the Bankruptcy Code or other present or future federal, state or applicable statute or law or from the decision in any court; or
     (h) any improper disposition by Borrower of the proceeds of the Loans, it being acknowledged by Guarantor that the Administrative Agent or any Bank shall be entitled to honor any request made by Borrower for a disbursement of such proceeds and that neither the Administrative Agent nor any Bank shall have any obligation to see the proper disposition by Borrower of such proceeds.
          6. Guarantor agrees that if at any time all or any part of any payment at any time received by the Administrative Agent from Borrower or Guarantor under or with respect to this Guaranty is or must be rescinded or returned by the Administrative Agent or any Bank for any reason whatsoever (including, without limitation, the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of Borrower or Guarantor), then Guarantor's obligations hereunder shall, to the extent of the payment rescinded or returned, be deemed to have continued in existence notwithstanding such previous receipt by such party, and Guarantor's obligations hereunder shall continue to be effective or reinstated, as the case may be, as to such payment, as though such previous payment had never been made.
          7. Until this Guaranty is terminated pursuant to the terms hereof, Guarantor (i) shall have no right of subrogation against Borrower or any entity comprising same by reason of any payments or acts of performance by Guarantor in compliance with the obligations of Guarantor hereunder, (ii) waives any right to enforce any remedy which Guarantor now or hereafter shall have against Borrower or any entity comprising same by reason of any one or more payment or acts of performance in compliance with the obligations of Guarantor hereunder and (iii) from and after an Event of Default (as defined in the Credit Agreement), subordinates
 
any liability or indebtedness of Borrower or any entity comprising same now or hereafter held by Guarantor or any affiliate of Guarantor to the obligations of Borrower under the Loan Documents. The foregoing, however, shall not be deemed in any way to limit any rights that Guarantor may have pursuant to the Agreement of Limited Partnership of Borrower or which it may have at law or in equity with respect to any other partners of Borrower.
          8. Guarantor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Banks with the knowledge that the Administrative Agent and the Banks are relying upon the same, as follows:
     (a) as of the date hereof, Guarantor is the sole general partner of Borrower;
     (b) based upon such relationships, Guarantor has determined that it is in its best interests to enter into this Guaranty;
     (c) this Guaranty is necessary and convenient to the conduct, promotion and attainment of Guarantor's business, and is in furtherance of Guarantor's business purposes;
     (d) the benefits to be derived by Guarantor from Borrower's access to funds made possible by the Loan Documents are at least equal to the obligations undertaken pursuant to this Guaranty;
     (e) Guarantor is solvent and has full power and legal right to enter into this Guaranty and to perform its obligations under the term hereof and (i) Guarantor is organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of Maryland, (ii) Guarantor has complied with all provisions of applicable law in connection with all aspects of this Guaranty, and (iii) the person executing this Guaranty has all the requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this Guaranty;
     (f) to the best of Guarantor's knowledge, there is no action, suit, proceeding, or investigation pending or threatened against or affecting Guarantor at law, in equity, in admiralty or before any arbitrator or any governmental department, commission, board, bureau, agency or instrumentality (domestic or foreign) which is likely to materially and adversely impair the ability of Guarantor to perform its obligations under this Guaranty;
     (g) the execution and delivery of and the performance by Guarantor of its obligations under this Guaranty have been duly authorized by all necessary action on the part of Guarantor and do not (i) violate any provision of any law, rule, regulation (including, without limitation, Regulation U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States), order, writ, judgment, decree, determination or award presently in effect having applicability to Guarantor or the organizational documents of Guarantor the consequences of which violation is likely to materially and adversely impair the ability of Guarantor to perform its obligations under this Guaranty or (ii) violate or conflict with, result in a breach of or constitute (with due notice or lapse of time or both) a default under any indenture, agreement or other instrument to which Guarantor is a party, or by which Guarantor or any of its property is bound, the consequences of which violation, conflict, breach or default is likely to
 
materially and adversely impair the ability of Guarantor to perform its obligations under this Guaranty;
     (h) this Guaranty has been duly executed by Guarantor and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of Guarantor, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms except as enforceability may be limited by applicable insolvency, bankruptcy or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally or general principles of equity, whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law;
     (i) no authorization, consent, approval, license or formal exemption from, nor any filing, declaration or registration with, any Federal, state, local or foreign court, governmental agency or regulatory authority is required in connection with the making and performance by Guarantor of this Guaranty, except those which have already been obtained; and
     (j) Guarantor is not an "investment company" as that term is defined in, nor is it otherwise subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
          9. Guarantor and Administrative Agent each acknowledge and agree that this Guaranty is a guarantee of payment and performance and not of collection and enforcement in respect of any obligations which may accrue to the Administrative Agent and/or the Banks from Borrower under the provisions of any Loan Document.
          10. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, and in conjunction therewith, the Administrative Agent or any Bank may assign any or all of its rights under this Guaranty. In the event of any such assignment, the Administrative Agent shall give Guarantor prompt notice of same. If the Administrative Agent elects to sell all the Loans or participations in the Loans and the Loan Documents, including this Guaranty, the Administrative Agent or any Bank may forward to each purchaser and prospective purchaser all documents and information relating to this Guaranty or to Guarantor, whether furnished by Borrower or Guarantor or otherwise, subject to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement.
          11. Guarantor agrees, upon the written request of the Administrative Agent, to execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, from time to time, any modification or amendment hereto or any additional instruments or documents reasonably considered necessary by the Administrative Agent or its counsel to cause this Guaranty to be, become or remain valid and effective in accordance with its terms, provided, that, any such modification, amendment, additional instrument or document shall not increase Guarantor's obligations or diminish its rights hereunder and shall be reasonably satisfactory as to form to Guarantor and to Guarantor's counsel.
          12. The representations and warranties of Guarantor set forth in this Guaranty shall survive until this Guaranty shall terminate in accordance with the terms hereof.
          13. This Guaranty contains the entire agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements relating to such subject
 
matter and may not be modified, amended, supplemented or discharged except by a written agreement signed by Guarantor and the Administrative Agent.
          14. If all or any portion of any provision contained in this Guaranty shall be determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect for any reason, such provision or portion thereof shall be deemed stricken and severed from this Guaranty and the remaining provisions and portions thereof shall continue in full force and effect.
          15. This Guaranty may be executed in counterparts which together shall constitute the same instrument.
          16. All notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall be in writing (including bank wire, telex, facsimile transmission followed by telephonic confirmation or similar writing) and shall be addressed to such party at the address set forth below or to such other address as may be identified by any party in a written notice to the others:
 
          Each such notice, request or other communication shall be effective (i) if given by telex or facsimile transmission, when such telex or facsimile is transmitted to the telex number or facsimile number specified in this Section and the appropriate answerback or facsimile confirmation is received, (ii) if given by certified registered mail, return receipt requested, with first class postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid, upon receipt or refusal to accept delivery, (iii) if given by a nationally recognized overnight carrier, 24 hours after such communication is deposited with such carrier with postage prepaid for next day delivery, or (iv) if given by any other means, when delivered at the address specified in this Section.
          17. Any acknowledgment or new promise, whether by payment of principal or interest or otherwise by Borrower or Guarantor, with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations shall, if the statute of limitations in favor of Guarantor against the Administrative Agent shall have commenced to run, toll the running of such statute of limitations, and if the period of such statute of limitations shall have expired, prevent the operation of such statute of limitations.
          18. This Guaranty shall be binding upon Guarantor and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Banks and their successors and permitted assigns.
          19. The failure of the Administrative Agent to enforce any right or remedy hereunder, or promptly to enforce any such right or remedy, shall not constitute a waiver thereof, nor give rise to any estoppel against the Administrative Agent, nor excuse Guarantor from its obligations hereunder. Any waiver of any such right or remedy to be enforceable against the Administrative Agent must be expressly set forth in a writing signed by the Administrative Agent.
          20. (a) THIS GUARANTY AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
     (b) Any legal action or proceeding with respect to this Guaranty and any action for enforcement of any judgment in respect thereof may be brought in the courts of the State of New York or of the United States of America for the Southern District of New York, and, by execution and delivery of this Guaranty, the Guarantor hereby accepts for itself and in respect of its property, generally and unconditionally, the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the aforesaid courts and appellate courts from any thereof. The Guarantor
 
irrevocably consents to the service of process out of any of the aforementioned courts in any such action or proceeding by the mailing of copies thereof by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the Guarantor at its address for notices set forth herein. The Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any of the aforesaid actions or proceedings arising out of or in connection with this Guaranty brought in the courts referred to above and hereby further irrevocably waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Nothing herein shall affect the right of the Administrative Agent to serve process in any other manner permitted by law or to commence legal proceedings or otherwise proceed against the Guarantor in any other jurisdiction.
     (c) GUARANTOR HEREBY WAIVES ITS RIGHTS TO A JURY TRIAL OF ANY AND ALL CLAIMS OR CAUSES OF ACTION BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF THIS GUARANTY. IT IS HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGED BY GUARANTOR THAT THE WAIVER OF A JURY TRIAL IS A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT TO ACCEPT THIS GUARANTY AND THAT THE LOANS MADE BY THE BANKS ARE MADE IN RELIANCE UPON SUCH WAIVER. GUARANTOR FURTHER WARRANTS AND REPRESENTS THAT SUCH WAIVER HAS BEEN KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY MADE, FOLLOWING CONSULTATION WITH LEGAL COUNSEL. IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, THIS GUARANTY MAY BE FILED BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT IN COURT AS A WRITTEN CONSENT TO A NON-JURY TRIAL.
     (d) Guarantor does hereby further covenant and agree to and with the Administrative Agent that Guarantor may be joined in any action against Borrower in connection with the Loan Documents and that recovery may be had against Guarantor in such action or in any independent action against Guarantor (with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations), without the Administrative Agent first pursuing or exhausting any remedy or claim against Borrower or its successors or assigns. Guarantor also agrees that, in an action brought with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations in any jurisdiction, it shall be conclusively bound by the judgment in any such action by the Administrative Agent (wherever brought) against Borrower or its successors or assigns, as if Guarantor were a party to such action, even though Guarantor was not joined as a party in such action.
     (e) Guarantor agrees to pay all reasonable expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and disbursements) which may be incurred by the Administrative Agent or the Banks in connection with the enforcement of their rights under this Guaranty, whether or not suit is initiated.
          21. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this Guaranty shall terminate and be of no further force or effect upon the full performance and payment of the Guaranteed Obligations hereunder. Upon termination of this Guaranty in accordance with the terms of this Guaranty, the Administrative Agent promptly shall deliver to Guarantor such
 
documents as Guarantor or Guarantor's counsel reasonably may request in order to evidence such termination.
          22. All of the Administrative Agent's rights and remedies under each of the Loan Documents or under this Guaranty are intended to be distinct, separate and cumulative and no such right or remedy therein or herein mentioned is intended to be in exclusion of or a waiver of any other right or remedy available to the Administrative Agent.
          23. The Guarantor shall not use any assets of an "employee benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA or a "plan" within the meaning of Section 4975(e)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") to repay or secure the Loan, the Note, the Obligations or this Guaranty. The Guarantor shall not assign, sell, pledge, encumber, transfer, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of any of its rights or interests (direct or indirect) in Borrower, or attempt to do any of the foregoing or suffer any of the foregoing, or permit any party with a direct or indirect interest or right in Borrower to do any of the foregoing, if such action would cause the Note, the Loan, the Obligations, this Guaranty, or any of the Loan Documents or the exercise of any of the Administrative Agent's or Bank's rights in connection therewith, to constitute a prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Code (unless the Guarantor furnishes to the Administrative Agent a legal opinion satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that the transaction is exempt from the prohibited transaction provisions of ERISA and the Code (and for this purpose, the Administrative Agent and the Banks, by accepting the benefits of this Guaranty, hereby agree to supply Guarantor all relevant non-confidential, factual information reasonably necessary to such legal opinion and reasonably requested by Guarantor) or would otherwise result in the Administrative Agent or any of the Banks being deemed in violation of Sections 404 or 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code or would otherwise result in the Administrative Agent or any of the Banks being a fiduciary or party in interest under ERISA or a "disqualified person" as defined in Section 4975(e)(2) of the Code with respect to an "employee benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA or a "plan" within the meaning of Section 4975(e)(1) of the Code. The Guarantor shall indemnify and hold each of the Administrative Agent and the Banks free and harmless from and against all loss, costs (including attorneys' fees and expenses), expenses, taxes and damages (including consequential damages) that each of the Administrative Agent and the Banks may suffer by reason of the investigation, defense and settlement of claims and in obtaining any prohibited transaction exemption under ERISA necessary in Administrative Agent's reasonable judgment as a result of Guarantor's action or inaction or by reason of a breach of the foregoing provisions by Guarantor.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Guaranty as of the date and year first above written.
ACCEPTED:
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent
 
On October 13, 2009, before me, Elise J. Krzyzkowski, a Notary Public, personally appeared Thomas S. Olinger, who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he executed the same in his authorized capacity, and that by his signature on the instrument the person, or entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument.
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand the official seal.

Exhibit 10.3
     UNCONDITIONAL GUARANTY OF PAYMENT (this ""), is made as of October 15, 2009 by AMB PROPERTY, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "") for the benefit of JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent and J.P. MORGAN EUROPE LIMITED, as Administrative Agent and SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORPORATION, as Administrative Agent (collectively, the "") for the banks (the "") that are from time to time parties to the Credit Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2009, among the Borrower, the Initial Qualified Borrowers, the banks listed on the signature pages thereof, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners (the "")
Guaranty
Guarantor
Administrative Agent
Banks
Credit Agreement
     Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Guaranty shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Credit Agreement.
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, a Qualified Borrower may request that the Banks make one or more loans (each, a "") to a Qualified Borrower, to be guaranteed by Guarantor by this Guaranty and to be evidenced by Qualified Borrower Notes (collectively, the ""), payable by the Qualified Borrower to the order of the Banks.
Loan
Note
     WHEREAS, this Guaranty is the "Qualified Borrower Guaranty" referred to in the Credit Agreement;
     WHEREAS, in order to induce the Administrative Agent and the Banks to make one or more Loans to one or more Qualified Borrowers, and to satisfy one of the conditions contained in the Credit Agreement with respect thereto, the Guarantor has agreed to enter into this Guaranty.
     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the direct and indirect benefits to be derived from the making of the Loans by the Banks to Qualified Borrowers, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, Guarantor hereby agrees as follows:
     1. Guarantor, on behalf of itself and its successors and assigns, hereby irrevocably, absolutely, and unconditionally guarantees the full and punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity or otherwise, of all obligations of each and every Qualified Borrower now or hereafter existing under the Notes (whether executed and delivered simultaneously herewith or subsequently), or under any of the other Loan Documents (such obligations, whenever arising, being the ""), and any and all reasonable costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) incurred by the Administrative Agent in enforcing its rights under this Guaranty.
Guaranteed Obligations
 
     2. It is agreed that the obligations of Guarantor hereunder are primary and this Guaranty shall be enforceable against Guarantor and its successors and assigns without the necessity for any suit or proceeding of any kind or nature whatsoever brought by the Administrative Agent against the relevant Qualified Borrower or its respective successors or assigns or any other party or against any security for the payment and performance of the Guaranteed Obligations and without the necessity of any notice of non-payment or non-observance or of any notice of acceptance of this Guaranty or of any notice or demand to which Guarantor might otherwise be entitled (including, without limitation, diligence, presentment, notice of maturity, extension of time, change in nature or form of the Guaranteed Obligations, acceptance of further security, release of further security, imposition or agreement arrived at as to the amount of or the terms of the Guaranteed Obligations, notice of adverse change in such Qualified Borrower's financial condition and any other fact which might materially increase the risk to Guarantor), all of which Guarantor hereby expressly waives; and Guarantor hereby expressly agrees that the validity of this Guaranty and the obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall in no way be terminated, affected, diminished, modified or impaired by reason of the assertion of or the failure to assert by the Administrative Agent against such Qualified Borrower or its respective successors or assigns, any of the rights or remedies reserved to the Administrative Agent pursuant to the provisions of the Loan Documents. Guarantor hereby agrees that any notice or directive given at any time to the Administrative Agent which is inconsistent with the waiver in the immediately preceding sentence shall be void and may be ignored by the Administrative Agent, and, in addition, may not be pleaded or introduced as evidence in any litigation relating to this Guaranty for the reason that such pleading or introduction would be at variance with the written terms of this Guaranty, unless the Administrative Agent has specifically agreed otherwise in a writing, signed by a duly authorized officer. Guarantor specifically acknowledges and agrees that the foregoing waivers are of the essence of this transaction and that, but for this Guaranty and such waivers, the Banks would not make Loans and the Fronting Bank would not issue Letters of Credit on behalf of any Qualified Borrower.
     3. Guarantor hereby waives, and covenants and agrees that it will not at any time insist upon, plead or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any and all appraisal, valuation, stay, extension, marshaling-of-assets or redemption laws, or right of homestead or exemption, whether now or at any time hereafter in force, which may delay, prevent or otherwise affect the performance by Guarantor of its obligations under, or the enforcement by the Administrative Agent of, this Guaranty. Guarantor further covenants and agrees not to set up or claim any defense, counterclaim, offset, set-off or other objection of any kind to any action, suit or proceeding in law, equity or otherwise, or to any demand or claim that may be instituted or made by the Administrative Agent other than the defense of the actual timely payment and performance by the relevant Qualified Borrower of the Guaranteed Obligations hereunder; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not be deemed a waiver of Guarantor's right to assert any compulsory counterclaim, if such counterclaim is compelled under local law or rule of procedure, nor shall the foregoing be deemed a waiver of Guarantor's right to assert any claim which would constitute a defense, setoff, counterclaim or crossclaim of any nature whatsoever against Administrative Agent or any Bank in any separate action or proceeding. Guarantor represents, warrants and agrees that, as of the date hereof, its obligations under this Guaranty are not subject to any counterclaims, offsets or defenses of any kind against the Administrative Agent, the Banks or the Fronting Bank.
 
     4. The provisions of this Guaranty are for the benefit of the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Banks and their successors and permitted assigns, and nothing herein contained shall impair as between any Qualified Borrower and the Administrative Agent the obligations of such Qualified Borrower under the Loan Documents.
     5. This Guaranty shall be a continuing, unconditional and absolute guaranty and the liability of Guarantor hereunder shall in no way be terminated, affected, modified, impaired or diminished by reason of the happening, from time to time, of any of the following, all without notice or the further consent of Guarantor:
          (a) any assignment, amendment, modification or waiver of or change in any of the terms, covenants, conditions or provisions of any of the Guaranteed Obligations or the Loan Documents or the invalidity or unenforceability of any of the foregoing; or
          (b) any extension of time that may be granted by the Administrative Agent to any Qualified Borrower, any guarantor, or their respective successors or assigns, heirs, executors, administrators or personal representatives; or
          (c) any action which the Administrative Agent may take or fail to take under or in respect of any of the Loan Documents or by reason of any waiver of, or failure to enforce any of the rights, remedies, powers or privileges available to the Administrative Agent under this Guaranty or available to the Administrative Agent at law, equity or otherwise, or any action on the part of the Administrative Agent granting indulgence or extension in any form whatsoever; or
          (d) any sale, exchange, release, or other disposition of any property pledged, mortgaged or conveyed, or any property in which the Administrative Agent and/or the Banks have been granted a lien or security interest to secure any indebtedness of any Qualified Borrower to the Administrative Agent and/or the Banks; or
          (e) any release of any person or entity who may be liable in any manner for the payment and collection of any amounts owed by any Qualified Borrower to the Administrative Agent and/or the Banks; or
          (f) the application of any sums by whomsoever paid or however realized to any amounts owing by any Qualified Borrower to the Administrative Agent and/or the Banks under the Loan Documents in such manner as the Administrative Agent shall determine in its sole discretion; or
          (g) any Qualified Borrower's or the Guarantor's voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, sale of all or substantially all of their respective assets and liabilities, appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, sequestrator or conservator for all or any part of any Qualified Borrower's or Guarantor's assets, insolvency, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, reorganization, arrangement, composition or readjustment, or the commencement of other similar proceedings affecting any Qualified Borrower or Guarantor or any of the assets of any of them, including, without limitation, (i) the release or discharge of any Qualified Borrower or Guarantor from the payment and performance of their respective obligations under any of the Loan Documents by operation of law, or (ii) the impairment,
 
limitation or modification of the liability of any Qualified Borrower or Guarantor in bankruptcy, or of any remedy for the enforcement of the Guaranteed Obligations under any of the Loan Documents, or Guarantor's liability under this Guaranty, resulting from the operation of any present or future provisions of the Bankruptcy Code or other present or future federal, state or applicable statute or law or from the decision in any court; or
          (h) any improper disposition by any Qualified Borrower of the proceeds of the Loans, it being acknowledged by Guarantor that the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to honor any request made by any Qualified Borrower for a disbursement of such proceeds and that the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to see the proper disposition by such Qualified Borrower of such proceeds.
          (i) Guarantor hereby agrees that if at any time all or any part of any payment at any time received by the Administrative Agent from any Qualified Borrower under any of the Notes or other Loan Documents or Guarantor under or with respect to this Guaranty is or must be rescinded or returned by the Administrative Agent for any reason whatsoever (including, without limitation, the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of any Qualified Borrower or Guarantor), then Guarantor's obligations hereunder shall, to the extent of the payment rescinded or returned, be deemed to have continued in existence notwithstanding such previous receipt by the Administrative Agent, and Guarantor's obligations hereunder shall continue to be effective or reinstated, as the case may be, as to such payment, as though such previous payment to the Administrative Agent had never been made.
          (j) Until this Guaranty is terminated pursuant to the terms hereof, the Guarantor (i) shall have no right of subrogation against any Qualified Borrower or any entity comprising same by reason of any payments or acts of performance by Guarantor in compliance with the obligations of Guarantor hereunder; (ii) hereby waives any right to enforce any remedy which Guarantor now or hereafter shall have against any Qualified Borrower or any entity comprising same by reason of any one or more payment or acts of performance in compliance with the obligations of Guarantor hereunder; and (iii) from and after an Event of Default (as defined in the Credit Agreement) subordinates any liability or indebtedness of any Qualified Borrower or any entity comprising same now or hereafter held by Guarantor to the obligations of each Qualified Borrower under the Loan Documents.
     6. Guarantor hereby represents, warrants and covenants on its own behalf to the Administrative Agent with the knowledge that the Administrative Agent is relying upon the same, as follows:
          (a) Guarantor will be familiar with the financial condition of each Qualified Borrower;
          (b) Guarantor has determined that it is in its best interest to enter into this Guaranty;
          (c) this Guaranty is necessary and convenient to the conduct, promotion and attainment of Guarantor's business, and is in furtherance of Guarantor's business purposes;
 
          (d) the benefits to be derived by Guarantor from each Qualified Borrower's access to funds made possible by the Loan Documents are at least equal to the obligations of Guarantor undertaken pursuant to this Guaranty;
          (e) the Guarantor is solvent and has full partnership power and legal right to enter into this Guaranty and to perform its obligations under the terms hereof and (i) Guarantor is organized and validly existing under the laws of its state of formation, (ii) Guarantor has complied with all provisions of applicable law in connection with all aspects of this Guaranty, and (iii) the person executing this Guaranty on behalf of Guarantor has all the requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this Guaranty; and
          (f) this Guaranty has been duly executed by Guarantor and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of Guarantor, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms except as enforceability may be limited by applicable insolvency, bankruptcy or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally or general principles of equity whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
     The foregoing representations and warranties shall be deemed to be made as of the date hereof and as the date of the making any Loan or the issuance of any Letter of Credit to or for the account on any Qualified Borrower.
     7. Each of Guarantor and the Administrative Agent acknowledges and agrees that this Guaranty is a guaranty of payment and not of collection and enforcement in respect of any obligations which may accrue to the Administrative Agent and/or the Banks from each Qualified Borrower under the provisions of any Loan Document.
     8. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, and in conjunction therewith, the Administrative Agent may assign any or all of its rights under this Guaranty.
     9. Guarantor agrees, upon the written request of the Administrative Agent, to execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, from time to time, any modification or amendment hereto or any additional instruments or documents reasonably considered necessary by the Administrative Agent or its counsel to cause this Guaranty to be, become or remain valid and effective in accordance with its terms, provided, that, any such modification, amendment, additional instrument or document shall not increase Guarantor's obligations or diminish its rights hereunder and shall be reasonably satisfactory as to form to Guarantor and to Guarantor's counsel.
     10. The representations and warranties of the Guarantor set forth in this Guaranty shall survive until this Guaranty shall terminate in accordance with the terms hereof.
     11. This Guaranty together with the Credit Agreement, each Note now or hereafter executed and delivered by any Qualified Borrower, and the other Loan Documents contain the entire agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements relating to such subject matter and may not be modified, amended, supplemented or discharged except by a written agreement signed by Guarantor and the Administrative Agent.
 
     12. If all or any portion of any provision contained in this Guaranty shall be determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect for any reason, such provision or portion thereof shall be deemed stricken and severed from this Guaranty and the remaining provisions and portions thereof shall continue in full force and effect.
     13. This Guaranty may be executed in counterparts which together shall constitute the same instrument.
     14. All notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall be in writing (including bank wire, telex, facsimile transmission followed by telephonic confirmation or similar writing) and shall be addressed to such party at the address set forth below or to such other address as may be identified by any party in a written notice to the others:
     Each such notice, request or other communication shall be effective (i) if given by telex or facsimile transmission, when such telex or facsimile is transmitted to the telex number or
 
facsimile number specified in this Section and the appropriate answerback or facsimile confirmation is received, (ii) if given by certified registered mail, return receipt requested, with first class postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid, upon receipt or refusal to accept delivery, (iii) if given by a nationally recognized overnight carrier, 24 hours after such communication is deposited with such carrier with postage prepaid for next day delivery, or (iv) if given by any other means, when delivered at the address specified in this Section.
     15. This Guaranty shall be binding upon Guarantor and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Administrative Agent and its successors and assigns.
     16. The failure of the Administrative Agent to enforce any right or remedy hereunder, or promptly to enforce any such right or remedy, shall not constitute a waiver thereof, nor give rise to any estoppel against the Administrative Agent, nor excuse Guarantor from its obligations hereunder. Any waiver of any such right or remedy to be enforceable against the Administrative Agent must be expressly set forth in a writing signed by the Administrative Agent.
     17. (a) THIS GUARANTY AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
          (b) Any legal action or proceeding with respect to this Guaranty and any action for enforcement of any judgment in respect thereof may be brought in the courts of the State of New York or of the United States of America for the Southern District of New York, and, by execution and delivery of this Guaranty, Guarantor hereby accepts for itself and in respect of its property, generally and unconditionally, the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the aforesaid courts and appellate courts from any thereof. Guarantor irrevocably consents to the service of process out of any of the aforementioned courts in any such action or proceeding by the mailing of copies thereof by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to Guarantor at the address for notices set forth herein. Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any of the aforesaid actions or proceedings arising out of or in connection with this Guaranty brought in the courts referred to above and hereby further irrevocably waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Nothing herein shall affect the right of the Administrative Agent to serve process in any other manner permitted by law or to commence legal proceedings or otherwise proceed against Guarantor in any other jurisdiction.
          (c) EACH OF THE GUARANTOR AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT HEREBY WAIVES ITS RIGHTS TO A JURY TRIAL OF ANY AND ALL CLAIMS OR CAUSES OF ACTION BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF THIS GUARANTY. IT IS HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGED BY GUARANTOR THAT THE WAIVER OF A JURY TRIAL IS A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT TO ACCEPT THIS GUARANTY AND THAT THE LOANS MADE BY THE BANKS ARE MADE IN RELIANCE UPON SUCH WAIVER. GUARANTOR FURTHER WARRANTS AND REPRESENTS THAT SUCH WAIVER HAS BEEN KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY MADE, FOLLOWING CONSULTATION WITH LEGAL COUNSEL. IN THE EVENT OF
 
LITIGATION, THIS GUARANTY MAY BE FILED BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT IN COURT AS A WRITTEN CONSENT TO A NON-JURY TRIAL.
          (d) Guarantor hereby further covenants and agrees with the Administrative Agent that Guarantor may be joined in any action against the Qualified Borrower in connection with the Loan Documents and that recovery may be had against Guarantor in such action or in any independent action against Guarantor (with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations), without the Administrative Agent first pursuing or exhausting any remedy or claim against the Qualified Borrower or its successors or assigns. Guarantor also agrees that, in an action brought with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations in any jurisdiction, it shall be conclusively bound by the judgment in any such action by the Administrative Agent (wherever brought) against any Qualified Borrower or its successors or assigns, as if Guarantor were a party to such action, even though Guarantor was not joined as a party in such action.
          (e) Guarantor hereby agrees to pay all reasonable expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and disbursements) which may be incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with the enforcement of its rights under this Guaranty, whether or not suit is initiated.
     18. Subject to the terms of Section 5(i) hereof, this Guaranty shall terminate and be of no further force or effect upon the full performance and payment of the Guaranteed Obligations hereunder. Upon termination of this Guaranty in accordance with the terms of this Guaranty, the Administrative Agent promptly shall deliver to Guarantor such documents as Guarantor or Guarantor's counsel reasonably may request in order to evidence such termination.
     19. All of the Administrative Agent's rights and remedies under each of the Loan Documents or under this Guaranty are intended to be distinct, separate and cumulative and no such right or remedy therein or herein mentioned is intended to be in exclusion of or a waiver of any other right or remedy available to the Administrative Agent.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has cause this Guaranty to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first set forth above.
 
     On October 13, 2009, before me, Elise J. Krzyzkowski, a Notary Public, personally appeared Gayle P. Starr, who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that she executed the same in her authorized capacity, and that by her signature on the instrument the person, or entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument.
     I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
     WITNESS my hand the official seal.


