FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20110810194139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
     In response to investor questions, the registrant is furnishing this report to provide investors with certain financial and operating data as of June 30, 2011 giving effect to the recent merger transaction, PEPR acquisition and stock offering (collectively, the "Data"). A copy of the Data is attached as an exhibit to this report. The Data has not been prepared in accordance with the rules of the Securities Exchange Commission relating to the preparation of pro forma financial information and contain non-GAAP financial information. Such non-GAAP financial information should only be read in conjunction with the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Accordingly, investors should not place any reliance on the Data as a predictor of the registrant's past or future performance or operating results. The registrant does not intend to update the Data.
     The information in this report and the exhibits attached hereto is being furnished, not filed, for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K will not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
     (c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Consolidated Pro Forma Statement of Operations
 
Reconciliation of Pro Forma Net Income (Loss) to Pro Forma Core FFO
 
(square feet and dollars in thousands)
 
Notes and Definitions
presents our results for the second quarter of 2011 as though the merger with AMB (the "Merger") and the acquisition of Prologis European Properties ("PEPR"), as well as the June 2011 issuance of 34.5 million shares, had been consummated as of April 1, 2011. The pro forma information does not necessarily reflect the actual results of operations had the transactions been consummated at the beginning of the period indicated nor is it necessarily indicative of future operating results. The unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Operations do not give effect to any cost synergies or other operating efficiencies that could result from the Merger and also does not include any Merger and integration expenses. The results for the three months ended June 30, 2011 include approximately one month of actual results for both the Merger and the PEPR acquisition and pro forma adjustments for two months. Actual results included rental income and rental expenses of the acquired properties of $84.7 million and $19.6 million, respectively.
Unaudited Consolidated Pro Forma Statement of Operations
FFO is a non-GAAP measure that is commonly used in the real estate industry. The most directly comparable GAAP measure to FFO is net earnings. Although the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") has published a definition of FFO, modifications to the NAREIT calculation of FFO are common among REITs, as companies seek to provide financial measures that meaningfully reflect their business.
FFO; FFO, as defined by Prologis; Core FFO (collectively referred to as "FFO").
FFO is not meant to represent a comprehensive system of financial reporting and does not present, nor do we intend it to present, a complete picture of our financial condition and operating performance. We believe net earnings computed under GAAP remains the primary measure of performance and that FFO is only meaningful when it is used in conjunction with net earnings computed under GAAP. Further, we believe our consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with GAAP, provide the most meaningful picture of our financial condition and our operating performance.
NAREIT's FFO measure adjusts net earnings computed under GAAP to exclude historical cost depreciation and gains and losses from the sales of previously depreciated properties. We agree that these two NAREIT adjustments are useful to investors for the following reasons:
Our FFO Measures
At the same time that NAREIT created and defined its FFO measure for the REIT industry, it also recognized that "management of each of its member companies has the responsibility and authority to publish financial information that it regards as useful to the financial community." We believe shareholders, potential investors and financial analysts who review our operating results are best served by a defined FFO measure that includes other adjustments to net earnings computed under GAAP in addition to those included in the NAREIT defined measure of FFO. Our FFO measures are used by management in analyzing our business and the performance of our properties and we believe that it is important that shareholders, potential investors and financial analysts understand the measures management uses.
We use our FFO measures as supplemental financial measures of operating performance. We do not use our FFO measures as, nor should they be considered to be, alternatives to net earnings computed under GAAP, as indicators of our operating performance, as alternatives to cash from operating activities computed under GAAP or as indicators of our ability to fund our cash needs.
FFO, as defined by Prologis
To arrive at , we adjust the NAREIT defined FFO measure to exclude:
FFO, as defined by Prologis
We calculate for our unconsolidated investees on the same basis as we calculate our .
FFO, as defined by Prologis
FFO, as defined by Prologis
We use this FFO measure, including by segment and region, to: (i) evaluate our performance and the performance of our properties in comparison to expected results and results of previous periods, relative to resource allocation decisions; (ii) evaluate the performance of our management; (iii) budget and forecast future results to assist in the allocation of resources; (iv) assess our performance as compared to similar real estate companies and the industry in general; and (v) evaluate how a specific potential investment will impact our future results. Because we make decisions with regard to our performance with a long-term outlook, we believe it is appropriate to remove the effects of short-term items that we do not expect to affect the underlying long-term performance of the properties. The long-term performance of our properties is principally driven by rental income. While not infrequent or unusual, these additional items we exclude in calculating , are subject to significant fluctuations from period to period that cause both positive and negative short-term effects on our results of operations, in inconsistent and unpredictable directions that are not relevant to our long-term outlook.
FFO, as defined by Prologis
We believe investors are best served if the information that is made available to them allows them to align their analysis and evaluation of our operating results along the same lines that our management uses in planning and executing our business strategy.
Core FFO
includes , adjusted to remove gains (losses) on acquisitions or dispositions of investments in real estate that are included in . If we recognize impairment charges due to the expected disposition of investments in real estate, we
Core FFO
FFO, as defined by Prologis
FFO, as defined by Prologis
 
Notes and Definitions
exclude those impairment charges. We may also adjust for certain other significant items that affect comparability as noted in the reconciliation. In 2011, these items consisted of Merger, Acquisitions and Other Integration Expenses and losses for the hurricanes and tsunamis in March 2011 in Japan. In addition, in this pro forma information, we have estimated the cost synergies we expect to realize as a result of the Merger and have adjusted core FFO for such estimated synergies. Actual realized synergies may differ from our estimates. We believe that pro forma core FFO is useful to management and the financial community to better understand the earnings potential of the combined company. As such, pro forma core FFO provides a view of our performance as if we were a combined company for the full second quarter.
Limitations on Use of our FFO Measures
While we believe our defined FFO measures are important supplemental measures, neither NAREIT's nor our measures of FFO should be used alone because they exclude significant economic components of net earnings computed under GAAP and are, therefore, limited as an analytical tool. Accordingly, they are two of many measures we use when analyzing our business. Some of these limitations are:
We compensate for these limitations by using our FFO measures only in conjunction with net earnings computed under GAAP when making our decisions. To assist investors in compensating for these limitations, we reconcile our defined FFO measures to our net earnings computed under GAAP. This information should be read with our complete financial statements prepared under GAAP.
comprise the largest, most liquid markets benefiting from demand tied to global trade. These markets are defined by large population centers with high consumption per capita and typically feature major seaports, airports, and other transportation infrastructure tied to global trade. While initial returns might be lower, global markets tend to outperform overall markets in terms of growth and total return.
Global Markets
includes stabilized operating industrial properties we own or that are owned by an unconsolidated investee accounted for by the equity method of accounting and we manage.
Operating Portfolio
, similar to global markets, also benefit from large-population centers and demand. They are located at key crossroads in the supply chain and/or near economic centers for leading national or global industries. The company's assets reflect the highest quality class-A product in that market and are often less supply- constrained and focus on delivering bulk goods to customers.
Regional Markets


