FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20110930161931.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
     On May 25, 2011, Prologis (f/k/a ProLogis), a Maryland real estate investment trust (the "Trust"), settled on its mandatory tender offer for all of the ordinary and convertible preferred units of ProLogis European Properties, a Luxembourg closed-ended investment fund (Euronext/Amsterdam: PEPR), managed by an affiliate of the Trust.
     On June 3, 2011, Prologis, Inc. (f/k/a AMB Property Corporation), a Maryland corporation ("Prologis"), Prologis, L.P. (f/k/a AMB Property, L.P.), a Delaware limited partnership (the "Operating Partnership"), and the Trust, completed the transactions contemplated by that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 30, 2011 and amended as of March 9, 2011 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among Prologis, the Operating Partnership, the Trust, New Pumpkin Inc., a Maryland corporation , Upper Pumpkin, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and Pumpkin LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
     This Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed to provide the pro forma financial information set forth below under Item 9.01(b), which gives effect to the foregoing transactions as set forth therein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
     Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Prologis for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 (attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, each registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Introduction
     On June 3, 2011, AMB Property Corporation ("AMB") and ProLogis combined through a merger of equals (the "Merger"). As a result of the Merger, each outstanding ProLogis common share was converted into 0.4464 shares of AMB common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. At the time of the Merger, AMB changed its name to Prologis, Inc. After consideration of all applicable factors pursuant to the business combination accounting rules, the Merger resulted in a reverse acquisition in which AMB was considered the "legal acquirer" because AMB issued its common stock to ProLogis shareholders and ProLogis was considered the "accounting acquirer" due to various factors including that ProLogis shareholders hold the largest portion of the voting rights in the merged entity and ProLogis appointees represent the majority of the board of directors of the combined entity.
     In April 2011, we purchased 11.1 million ordinary units of PEPR, increasing our ownership interest to approximately 39%, and launched a mandatory tender offer to acquire any or all of the outstanding ordinary units and convertible preferred units of PEPR that we did not own at that time. On May 25, 2011, we settled our mandatory tender offer that resulted in the acquisition of an additional 96.5 million ordinary units and 2.7 million convertible preferred units of PEPR. During all of the second quarter of 2011, we made aggregate cash purchases of 715.8 million ($1.0 billion), including through the tender offer and open market and negotiated purchases. We funded the purchases through borrowings under our global line of credit and a new 500 million bridge facility, which was subsequently repaid with proceeds from our June equity offering.
     Upon completion of the tender offer, we met the requirements to consolidate PEPR. In addition, in accordance with the accounting rules for business combinations, we marked our equity investment in PEPR from carrying value to fair value of approximately 486 million, which resulted in the recognition of a gain of 59.6 million ($85.9 million). The fair value was based on the trading price and our acquisition price for the PEPR units previously outstanding and purchased during the tender offer period, respectively. As of June 30, 2011, we owned approximately 92.3% of the voting ordinary units of PEPR and 94.6% of the convertible preferred units.
Pro forma information
     The following unaudited pro forma financial information presents our results as though the Merger and the acquisition of PEPR had been consummated as of January 1, 2010. The pro forma information does not necessarily reflect the actual results of operations had the transactions been consummated at the beginning of the period indicated nor is it indicative of future operating results. The pro forma information only includes income through continuing operations and does not give effect to any cost synergies or other operating efficiencies that could result from the Merger as well as does not include any merger and integration expenses. The results of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2011 include approximately one month of actual results for both the Merger and the PEPR acquisition and pro forma adjustments for the remaining five months.
     Pro forma adjustments, and the assumptions on which they are based, are described in the accompanying Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which are referred to in this Section as the Notes.
     The pro forma information has been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). All significant adjustments necessary to reflect the effects of the Merger and acquisition of PEPR that can be factually supported within the SEC regulations covering the preparation of pro forma financial statements have been made. The pro forma information is presented for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the combined operating results or financial position that would have occurred if such transactions had been consummated on the dates and in accordance with the assumptions described herein, nor is it necessarily indicative of future operating results or financial position.
     You are urged to read the pro forma information below together with ProLogis' and AMB's publicly available historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes, which are available on the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov.
Merger Consideration
     As ProLogis was the accounting acquirer, the calculation of the purchase price for accounting purposes is based on the price of ProLogis common shares and the number of ProLogis common shares that ProLogis would have had to issue to achieve a similar ownership split between AMB and ProLogis shareholders. The preliminary purchase price allocation reflects estimated aggregate consideration of approximately $5.9 billion, as calculated below (in millions, except price per share):
 
Transaction Costs
     In connection with the Merger, we have incurred and expect to incur additional significant transaction, integration, and transitional costs. These costs include investment banker advisory fees; legal, tax, accounting and valuation fees; termination and severance costs (both cash and stock based compensation awards) for terminated and transitional employees; systems conversion costs; and other integration costs. These costs are expensed as incurred, which in some cases will be through the end of 2012. The costs that were obligations of AMB and expensed pre-merger are not included. At the time of the Merger, we terminated our existing credit facilities and wrote-off the remaining unamortized deferred loan costs associated with such facilities, which is included as a merger expense. In addition, we have included costs associated with the acquisition of a controlling interest in PEPR. The following is a breakdown of the costs incurred during 2011 (in thousands).
     The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements included herein do not give effect to any potential cost reductions or other operating efficiencies that we expect to result from the Merger.
 
 
 
Notes to unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements
 
 
 
 


