FILE:PLD/PLD-8K-20110728080031.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On July 28, 2011, Prologis issued a press release announcing second quarter 2011 financial results. A copy of the press release as well as supplemental information is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The information in this report and the exhibits attached hereto is being furnished, not filed, for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K will not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
SAN FRANCISCO, July [28], 2011  Prologis, Inc. (NYSE: PLD), the leading global owner, operator and developer of industrial real estate, today reported results for the second quarter of 2011.
On June 3, 2011, AMB Property Corporation and ProLogis completed their merger and became Prologis, Inc. Under the structure of the merger, AMB Property Corporation was the legal acquirer and ProLogis was the accounting acquirer. Therefore financial results for the second quarter reflect two months of stand-alone legacy ProLogis and approximately one month of results of the combined company. These quarterly results also reflect the consolidation, of approximately one month, of ProLogis European Properties (Euronext/Amsterdam: PEPR, hereafter "PEPR") due to the acquisition of a controlling interest by the company. All prior periods financial comparisons reflect legacy ProLogis results. The operating metric and capital deployment comparisons for 2011 have been generally conformed to legacy ProLogis definitions and represent the combined company.
Core funds from operations ("Core FFO") per fully diluted share amounted to $0.35 for the second quarter of 2011, compared to $0.28 for legacy ProLogis for the same quarter in 2010. Funds from operations, as defined by Prologis ("FFO") per fully diluted share was $0.03 for the second quarter of 2011, compared to $0.32 for legacy ProLogis, for the same period in 2010. The differential between Core FFO and FFO in the second quarter of 2011 relates to impairment charges of $0.34 per share and merger costs of $0.33 per share, offset by net gains on acquisitions and dispositions of real estate of $0.34 per share.
Net loss per share for the second quarter of 2011 was $(0.49), compared to a loss of $(0.11) for the same quarter in 2010. The year-over-year change primarily relates to the impairment charges and merger costs, again offset by net gains on acquisitions and dispositions of real estate.
"Our global footprint and access to capital provide us with the ability to seize opportunities around the world as the economic recovery continues," said Hamid R. Moghadam, chairman and co-chief executive officer. "Operating performance was strong, demonstrated by significant improvements in same-store net operating income, occupancy and rent change on rollover. We believe our company's positive performance in the second quarter is indicative of a trend that will continue through the rest of 2011 and into 2012."
Operating Portfolio Metrics
Prologis' operating portfolio was 90.7 percent occupied at the end of the second quarter, up more than 80 basis points from 89.9 percent occupied at March 31, 2011.Same-store net operating income increased by 3.1 percent for the second quarter, compared to a 0.7 percent increase in the first quarter of this year. Rental rates on leases signed in the same-store pool decreased (6.1) percent for the second quarter, a significant improvement over the (8.9) percent decline in the first quarter.
Leasing Activity
During the second quarter, the company leased a total of 33.5 million square feet (3.1 million square meters) in its operating portfolio and 1.4 million square feet (126,348 square meters) in its development portfolio. Year-to-date, Prologis has leased approximately 68 million square feet (6.3 million square meters) in its operating and development portfolios. The company also achieved a 76.7 percent tenant retention rate for the quarter, signing 22 million square feet (2 million square meters) of renewals.
Capital Markets Activity
During the second quarter, Prologis:
 
As of June 30, 2011, Prologis' liquidity exceeded $1.5 billion, consisting of $1.3 billion of availability on its lines of credit and $261 million in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents.
Private Capital Activity
Year-to-date through June 30, 2011, Prologis raised $1.3 billion of new third-party equity in its Private Capital business, with $207 million of that amount raised in the second quarter.
As previously announced, the company completed a mandatory tender offer for PEPR, a Luxembourg closed-ended investment fund. As of June 30, 2011 Prologis owned approximately 92.4 percent of the outstanding units of PEPR.
Also as previously announced, Prologis acquired its partner's 50 percent interest in its AMB-SGP joint venture during the second quarter.
Capital Deployment Activity
Year-to-date through June 30, 2011, the combined company deployed $796 million, $368 million of which was deployed in the second quarter. Activity in the second quarter included:
Also during the quarter, in partnership with Bank of America Merrill Lynch and NRG Energy, Prologis announced an offer of a conditional commitment from the U.S. Department of Energy's Loan Programs Office to help finance a 733-megawatt distributed rooftop solar power generation project, the largest of its kind in the world. The government loan guarantee supporting $1.4 billion of debt facilitates a total project size of about $2.6 billion, which is being financed primarily by the private sector over the next four years. Prologis will lease its rooftops and will also act as developer, construction manager and program sponsor, in addition to making a modest equity investment.
During the second quarter, the combined company completed $258 million in asset dispositions, primarily consisting of $115 million related to the closing of the remaining Catellus assets and $144 million of industrial land building sales.
Common Stock Dividend Update
Subject to approval from its board of directors, Prologis expects to declare its third-quarter dividend in September, payable in October 2011.
Integration Update
The company has identified more than $90 million of merger cost synergies including gross G&A savings, reduced facility fees on its global line of credit and lower amortization of non real estate assets. Since closing the merger, Prologis has already realized approximately 60 percent of these merger synergies and expects to realize the total amount on a run rate basis by year-end 2012.
"Our overall progress on the integration is on target and in many areas is ahead of plan," said Walter C. Rakowich co-chief executive officer. "When we put the companies together, we gained an unparalleled platform of distribution facilities throughout the world. We are able to serve customers in ways few other companies can, and we can accomplish this at an overall lower cost of capital. The organization is already beginning to benefit from combining the two businesses and, importantly, our customers are benefiting as well. The merger has primed Prologis for success globally."
Guidance for the Remainder of 2011
The company expects to achieve its previously provided Core FFO guidance of $0.78 to $0.82 per share for the second half 2011, with an expectation in the higher end of the range. The company also expects to recognize a net loss of $0.15-$0.18 per share for the second half of 2011. In reconciling from net earnings (loss) to Core FFO, Prologis adds back real estate depreciation, amortization expense and merger costs estimated at $0.93 to $1.02 per share. Net income guidance excludes any potential gains (losses) recognized from property dispositions due to the variability of timing, composition of properties and estimate of proceeds.
Webcast and Conference Call Information
The company will host a webcast/conference call to discuss quarterly results, current market conditions and future outlook on Thursday, July 28, 2011, at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Interested parties are encouraged to access the live webcast by clicking the microphone icon located near the top of the opening page at: http://ir.prologis.com. Interested parties also can participate via conference call by dialing (877) 256-7020 domestically or (706) 643-7823 internationally with reservation code 83570494.
About Prologis
Prologis, Inc. is the leading owner, operator and developer of industrial real estate, focused on global and regional markets across the Americas, Europe and Asia. As of
 
June 30 2011, Prologis owned or had investments in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated joint ventures, properties and development projects expected to total approximately 600 million square feet (55.7 million square meters) in 22 countries. The company leases modern distribution facilities to more than 4,500 customers, including manufacturers, retailers, transportation companies, third-party logistics providers and other enterprises.
Some of the information included in this press release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, and you should not rely on the forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events or circumstances reflected in forward-looking statements might not occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "approximately," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates" or "anticipates" or the negative of these words and phrases or similar words or phrases. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily dependent on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and we may not be able to realize them. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak only as of the date of this report or the dates indicated in the statements. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements: changes in general economic conditions in California, the U.S. or globally (including financial market fluctuations), global trade or in the real estate sector (including risks relating to decreasing real estate valuations and impairment charges); risks associated with using debt to fund the company's business activities, including refinancing and interest rate risks; the company's failure to obtain, renew, or extend necessary financing or access the debt or equity markets; the company's failure to maintain its current credit agency ratings or comply with its debt covenants; risks related to the merger transaction with ProLogis, including litigation related to the merger, and the risk that the merger may not achieve its intended results; risks related to the company's obligations in the event of certain defaults under co-investment venture and other debt; defaults on or non-renewal of leases by customers, lease renewals at lower than expected rent or failure to lease properties at all or on favorable rents and terms; difficulties in identifying properties, portfolios of properties, or interests in real-estate related entities or platforms to acquire and in effecting acquisitions on advantageous terms and the failure of acquisitions to perform as the company expects; unknown liabilities acquired in connection with the acquired properties, portfolios of properties, or interests in real-estate related entities; the company's failure to successfully integrate acquired properties and operations; risks and uncertainties affecting property development, redevelopment and value-added conversion (including construction delays, cost overruns, the company's inability to obtain necessary permits and financing, the company's inability to lease properties at all or at favorable rents and terms, and public opposition to these activities); the company's failure to set up additional funds, attract additional investment in existing funds or to contribute properties to its co-investment ventures due to such factors as its inability to acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the investment criteria of such ventures, or the co-investment ventures' inability to access debt and equity capital to pay for property contributions or their allocation of available capital to cover other capital requirements; risks and uncertainties relating to the disposition of properties to third parties and the company's ability to effect such transactions on advantageous terms and to timely reinvest proceeds from any such dispositions; risks of doing business internationally and global expansion, including unfamiliarity with the new markets and currency
risks; risks of changing personnel and roles; losses in excess of the company's insurance coverage; changes in local, state and federal regulatory requirements, including changes in real estate and zoning laws; increases in real property tax rates; risks associated with the company's tax structuring; increases in interest rates and operating costs or greater than expected capital expenditures; environmental uncertainties and risks related to natural disasters; and our failure to qualify and maintain our status as a real estate investment trust. Our success also depends upon economic trends generally, various market conditions and fluctuations and those other risk factors discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and our other public reports.
Prologis Contacts
 
Prologis, Inc. is the leading owner, operator and developer of industrial real estate, focused on global and regional markets across the Americas, Europe and Asia. As of June 30 2011, Prologis owned or had investments in, on a consolidated basis or through unconsolidated joint ventures, properties and development projects expected to total approximately 600 million square feet (55.7 million square meters) in 22 countries. The company leases modern distribution facilities to more than 4,500 customers, including manufacturers, retailers, transportation companies, third-party logistics providers and other enterprises.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(A) Adjustment for acquisitions made during the quarter, including the Merger and PEPR acquisition to reflect NOI for the full period.
 
(square feet and gross book value in thousands)
 
(dollars and square feet in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(A)   This table does not include the acres and value associated with our land use rights in China, which are valued at $12.1 million and $9.0 million in our consolidated and unconsolidated portfolio, respectively.
 
Fund Summary
(dollars in thousands)
Condensed Balance Sheet of the Unconsolidated Property Funds, Combined (C)
 
 
(dollars in thousands)
 
 
(A) Interest rate is based on the effective rate and weighted based on borrowings outstanding.
 
 
(in thousands, except for percentages and per square foot)
Consolidated
 
 
(in thousands)
Private Capital
Other
 
Please refer to our annual and quarterly financial statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and other public reports for further information about us and our business. Certain amounts from previous periods presented in the Supplemental Information have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation.
Our direct owned segment represents the direct, long-term ownership of industrial properties. Our investment strategy in this segment focuses primarily on the ownership and leasing of industrial properties in key distribution markets. Our intent is to hold and use these properties; however, depending on market and other conditions, we may contribute or sell these properties to property funds, co-investment ventures or sell to third parties. When we contribute or sell properties we have developed, we recognize FFO to the extent the proceeds received exceed our original investment (i.e. prior to depreciation) and present the results as Net Gains on Dispositions. In addition, we have industrial properties that are currently under development and land available for development that are part of this segment as well. We may develop the land or sell to third parties, depending on market conditions, customer demand and other factors. The private capital segment represents primarily the management of unconsolidated property funds and joint ventures and the properties they own.
On June 3, 2011, AMB Property Corporation ("AMB") and ProLogis combined through a merger of equals (the "Merger"). As a result of the Merger, each outstanding share of ProLogis common shares was converted into 0.4464 shares of AMB common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. At the time of the Merger, AMB changed its name to Prologis, Inc. After consideration of all applicable factors pursuant to the business combination accounting rules, the Merger resulted in a reverse acquisition in which AMB was considered the "legal acquirer" because AMB issued its common stock to ProLogis shareholders and ProLogis was considered the "accounting acquirer" due to various factors including that former ProLogis shareholders hold the largest portion of the voting rights in the merged entity and ProLogis appointees represent the majority of the Board of Directors. As such, the historical results of ProLogis are included for the full period and AMB results are included from the date of the Merger going forward.
In April 2011, we purchased 11.1 million ordinary units of ProLogis European Properties ("PEPR"), increasing our ownership interest to approximately 39%, and launched a mandatory tender offer to acquire any or all of the outstanding ordinary units and convertible preferred units of PEPR that we did not own at that time. On May 25, 2011, we settled on our mandatory tender offer. Pursuant to the tender offer and open-market purchases made during the tender period, we acquired an additional 96.5 million ordinary units and 2.7 million convertible preferred units of PEPR for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 615.5 million. We funded the aggregate purchases through borrowings under our existing credit facilities and a new 500 million bridge facility, which was subsequently repaid with proceeds received from our June equity offering.
After completion of the tender offer, we began consolidating PEPR. In addition, in accordance with the accounting rules for business combinations, we marked our equity investment in PEPR to fair value, which resulted in the recognition of a gain of 59.6 million ($85.9 million). Following the tender offer, and including purchases through June 30, 2011, we owned approximately 92.3% of the voting ordinary units of PEPR and 94.6% of the convertible preferred units as of June 30, 2011.
We have preliminarily allocated the aggregate purchase price related to the Merger of $5.8 billion and for PEPR of 1.1 billion ($1.6 billion) as set forth below. The preliminary allocations are based on our preliminary valuations, estimates and assumptions and are subject to change.
As of June 30, 2011, we had 7 land parcels and 8 operating properties that met the criteria as held for sale. The amounts included in include real estate investment balances and the related assets and liabilities for each property.
Assets Held For Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Assets Held for Sale
During the six months ended June 30, 2011, we disposed of 38 non-development properties aggregating 2.8 million square feet to third parties, including 31 properties aggregating 1.3 million square feet that were included in at December 31, 2010. During all of 2010, we disposed of land subject to ground leases and 205 properties aggregating 25.4 million square feet to third parties, 2 of which were development properties.
Assets Held for Sale
The operations of the properties held for sale and properties that are disposed of to third parties during a period, including the aggregate net gains recognized upon their disposition, are presented as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented. The income attributable to these properties was as follows (in thousands):
For purposes of our Consolidated Statements of FFO, we do not segregate discontinued operations. In addition, we include the gains from disposition of land parcels and development properties in the calculation of FFO, including those classified as discontinued operations.
represents the estimated value of the real estate we own or manage through our consolidated and unconsolidated investees. We calculate AUM by adding the noncontrolling interests share of the estimated fair value of the real estate investment to our share of total market capitalization.
Assets Under Management ("AUM")
Calculation of Per Share Amounts are as follows
(in thousands, except per share amounts)
:
 
 
We use Core EBITDA, as adjusted to measure both our operating performance and liquidity. We calculate Core EBITDA, as adjusted beginning with consolidated net earnings/loss and removing the affect of interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, impairment charges, gains or losses from the acquisition or disposition of investments in real estate, gains or losses on early extinguishment of debt and derivative contracts (including cash charges), similar adjustments we make to our Core FFO (see definition below), and other non-cash charges (such as stock based compensation amortization and unrealized gains or losses on foreign currency and derivative activity), including our share of these items (other than interest and current income taxes) from unconsolidated investees.
Core EBITDA, As Adjusted.
We consider Core EBITDA, as adjusted to provide investors relevant and useful information because it permits investors to view income from operations on an unleveraged basis before the effects of income tax, non-cash depreciation and amortization expense and other items (including stock-based compensation amortization and certain unrealized gains and losses), gains or losses from the acquisition or disposition of investments in real estate, items that affect comparability, and other significant non-cash items. In 2011, we adjusted Core EBITDA to include a proforma adjustment to reflect a full period of NOI on the operating properties we acquired through the Merger and PEPR acquisition and to exclude Merger, Acquisition and Other Integration Expenses and costs associated with the hurricane and tsunami that occurred in first quarter 2011 in Japan. By excluding interest expense, adjusted EBITDA allows investors to measure our operating performance independent of our capital structure and indebtedness and, therefore, allows for a
more meaningful comparison of our operating performance to that of other companies, both in the real estate industry and in other industries. Gains and losses on the early extinguishment of debt and derivatives contracts generally included the costs of repurchasing debt securities. Although difficult to predict, these items may be recurring given the uncertainty of the current economic climate and its adverse effects on the real estate and financial markets. While not infrequent or unusual in nature, these items result from market fluctuations that can have inconsistent effects on our results of operations. The economics underlying these items reflect market and financing conditions in the short-term but can obscure our performance and the value of our long-term investment decisions and strategies.
As a liquidity measure, we believe that Core EBITDA, as adjusted helps investors to analyze our ability to meet interest payment obligations and to make quarterly preferred share dividends. We believe that investors should consider Core EBITDA, as adjusted in conjunction with net income (the primary measure of our performance) and the other required Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") measures of our performance and liquidity, to improve their understanding of our operating results and liquidity, and to make more meaningful comparisons of our performance against other companies. By using Core EBITDA, as adjusted, an investor is assessing the earnings generated by our operations, but not taking into account the eliminated expenses or gains incurred in connection with such operations. As a result, core EBITDA, as adjusted has limitations as an analytical tool and should be used in conjunction with our required GAAP presentations. Core EBITDA, as adjusted does not reflect our historical cash expenditures or future cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures distribution requirements or contractual commitments. Core EBITDA, as adjusted also does not reflect the cash required to make interest and principal payments on our outstanding debt.
While Core EBITDA, as adjusted is a relevant and widely used measure of operating performance and liquidity, it does not represent net income or cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP and it should not be considered as an alternative to those indicators in evaluating operating performance or liquidity. Further, our computation of Core EBITDA, as adjusted may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies. We compensate for the limitations of Core EBITDA, as adjusted by providing investors with financial statements prepared according to GAAP, along with this detailed discussion of Core EBITDA, as adjusted and a reconciliation of Core EBITDA, as adjusted to consolidated net earnings (loss), a GAAP measurement.
is our estimate of the gross real estate, which could be acquired through the use of the equity commitments from our property fund or co-investment venture partners, plus our funding obligations and estimated debt capitalization.
Estimated Investment Capacity
FFO is a non-GAAP measure that is commonly used in the real estate industry. The most directly comparable GAAP measure to FFO is net earnings. Although the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") has published a definition of FFO, modifications to the NAREIT calculation of FFO are common among REITs, as companies seek to provide financial measures that meaningfully reflect their business.
FFO; FFO, as defined by Prologis; FFO, excluding significant non-cash items; Core FFO (collectively referred to as "FFO").
FFO is not meant to represent a comprehensive system of financial reporting and does not present, nor do we intend it to present, a complete picture of our financial condition and operating performance. We believe net earnings computed under GAAP remains the primary measure of performance and that FFO is only meaningful when it is used in conjunction with net earnings computed under GAAP. Further, we believe our consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with GAAP, provide the most meaningful picture of our financial condition and our operating performance.
 
NAREIT's FFO measure adjusts net earnings computed under GAAP to exclude historical cost depreciation and gains and losses from the sales of previously depreciated properties. We agree that these two NAREIT adjustments are useful to investors for the following reasons:
Our FFO Measures
At the same time that NAREIT created and defined its FFO measure for the REIT industry, it also recognized that "management of each of its member companies has the responsibility and authority to publish financial information that it regards as useful to the financial community." We believe shareholders, potential investors and financial analysts who review our operating results are best served by a defined FFO measure that includes other adjustments to net earnings computed under GAAP in addition to those included in the NAREIT defined measure of FFO. Our FFO measures are used by management in analyzing our business and the performance of our properties and we believe that it is important that shareholders, potential investors and financial analysts understand the measures management uses.
We use our FFO measures as supplemental financial measures of operating performance. We do not use our FFO measures as, nor should they be considered to be, alternatives to net earnings computed under GAAP, as indicators of our operating performance, as alternatives to cash from operating activities computed under GAAP or as indicators of our ability to fund our cash needs.
FFO, as defined by Prologis
To arrive at , we adjust the NAREIT defined FFO measure to exclude:
FFO, as defined by Prologis
We calculate for our unconsolidated investees on the same basis as we calculate our .
FFO, as defined by Prologis
FFO, as defined by Prologis
We use this FFO measure, including by segment and region, to: (i) evaluate our performance and the performance of our properties in comparison to expected results and results of previous periods, relative to resource allocation decisions; (ii) evaluate the performance of our management; (iii) budget and forecast future results to assist in the allocation of resources; (iv) assess our performance as compared to similar real estate companies and the industry in general; and (v) evaluate how a specific potential investment will impact our future results. Because we make decisions with regard to our performance with a long-term outlook, we believe it is appropriate to remove the effects of short-term items that we do not expect to affect the underlying long-term performance of the properties. The long-term performance of our properties is principally driven by rental income. While not infrequent or unusual, these additional items we exclude in calculating , are subject to significant fluctuations from period to period that cause both positive and negative short-term effects on our results of operations, in inconsistent and unpredictable directions that are not relevant to our long-term outlook.
FFO, as defined by Prologis
We believe investors are best served if the information that is made available to them allows them to align their analysis and evaluation of our operating results along the same lines that our management uses in planning and executing our business strategy.
FFO, excluding significant non-cash items
When we began to experience the effects of the global economic crises in the fourth quarter of 2008, we decided that , did not provide all of the information we needed to evaluate our business in this environment. As a result, we developed to provide additional information that allowed us to better evaluate our operating performance during that unprecedented economic time. Beginning in 2011, we no longer use FFO, excluding significant non-cash items.
FFO, as defined by Prologis
FFO, excluding significant non-cash items
Core FFO
includes , adjusted to remove gains (losses) on acquisitions or dispositions of investments in real estate that are included in . If we recognize impairment charges due to the expected disposition of investments in real estate, we exclude those impairment charges. We may also adjust for certain other significant items that affect comparability as noted in the reconciliation. In 2011, we have adjusted to exclude Merger, Acquisitions and Other Integration Expenses and losses for the hurricanes and tsunamis in March 2011 in Japan.
Core FFO
FFO, as defined by Prologis
FFO, as defined by Prologis
Limitations on Use of our FFO Measures
While we believe our defined FFO measures are important supplemental measures, neither NAREIT's nor our measures of FFO should be used alone because they exclude significant economic components of net earnings computed under GAAP and are, therefore, limited as an analytical tool. Accordingly they are two of many measures we use when analyzing our business. Some of these limitations are:
 
We compensate for these limitations by using our FFO measures only in conjunction with net earnings computed under GAAP when making our decisions. To assist investors in compensating for these limitations, we reconcile our defined FFO measures to our net earnings computed under GAAP. This information should be read with our complete financial statements prepared under GAAP.
consisted of the following ():
General and Administrative Expenses ("G&A")
in thousands
comprise the largest, most liquid markets benefiting from demand tied to global trade. These markets are defined by large population centers with high consumption per capita and typically feature major seaports, airports, and other transportation infrastructure tied to global trade. While initial returns might be lower, global markets tend to outperform overall markets in terms of growth and total return.
Global Markets
. During the three months ended June 30, 2011, we recognized impairment charges related to two of our investments in property funds, as we believed the decline in value of our investments to be other than temporary and due to a pending sale of our interest to our fund partner.
Impairment of Other Assets
consisted of the following :
Interest Expense
(in thousands)
is defined as the total number of outstanding shares of our common stock and common limited partnership units multiplied by the closing price per share of our common stock at period end.
Market Equity
In connection with the Merger, we have incurred and expect to incur additional significant transaction, integration, and transitional costs. These costs include investment banker advisory fees; legal, tax, accounting and valuation fees; termination and severance costs (both cash and stock based compensation awards) for terminated and transitional employees; system conversion; and other integration costs. Certain of these costs were obligations of AMB and were expensed prior to the closing of the Merger by AMB. The remainder of the costs will be expensed by us as incurred, which in some cases will be through the end of 2012. At the time of the merger, we cancelled our existing credit facilities and wrote-off the remaining unamortized deferred loan costs associated with such facilities, which is included. In addition, we have included costs associated with the acquisition of a controlling interest in PEPR and reduction in workforce charges associated with dispositions made or expected to be made in 2011. The following is a breakdown of the costs incurred during the three and six months ended June 30, 2011 :
Merger, Acquisition and Other Integration Expenses.
(in thousands)
We consider NAV to be a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance because it enables both management and investors to estimate the fair value of a business. The assessment of the fair value of a particular segment of our business is subjective in that it involves estimates and can be calculated using various methods. Therefore, in this supplemental report, we have presented the financial results and investments related to our business segments that we believe are important in calculating our NAV but have not presented any specific methodology nor provided any guidance on the assumptions or estimates that should be used in the calculation.
Net Asset Value ("NAV").
The components of NAV do not consider the potential changes in rental and fee income streams or the franchise value associated with our global operating platform, private capital platform, or development platform.
 
Pro forma NOI for our operating properties is adjusted to reflect the NOI for properties that were acquired during the quarter for a full quarter. Pro forma NOI for our properties under development is based on current total expected investment and an estimated stabilized yield.
includes the gains we recognized from the consolidation of PEPR and the acquisition of a controlling interest in a joint venture in Japan.
Net Gains on Acquisitions and Dispositions of Investments in Real Estate
represents rental income less rental expenses.
Net Operating Income ("NOI")
includes stabilized operating industrial properties we own or that are owned by an unconsolidated investee accounted for by the equity method of accounting and we manage.
Operating Portfolio
epresents the direct long-term ownership of industrial properties, including land and the development of properties.
Operating Segments  Direct Owned r
represents the management of unconsolidated property funds and joint ventures and the properties they own.
Operating Segments  Private Capital
represents properties that are complete but have not yet reached Stabilization.
Pre-stabilized Development
, similar to global markets, also benefit from large-population centers and demand. They are located at key crossroads in the supply chain and/or near economic centers for leading national or global industries. The companys assets reflect the highest quality class-A product in that market and are often less supply- constrained and focus on delivering bulk goods to customers.
Regional Markets
includes the following :
Rental Income
(in thousands)
We evaluate the operating performance of the industrial operating properties we own and manage using a "same store" analysis because the population of properties in this analysis is consistent from period to period, thereby eliminating the effects of changes in the composition of the portfolio on performance measures. We include all consolidated properties owned by us, and properties owned by property funds and joint ventures that are managed by us and in which we have an equity interest (referred to as "unconsolidated investees"), in our same store analysis. We have defined the same store portfolio, for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, as those operating properties that were in operation at January 1, 2010 and have been in operation throughout the full periods in both 2011 and 2010 either by ProLogis or AMB. We have removed all properties that were disposed of to a third party from the population for both periods. We believe the factors that impact rental income, rental expenses and net operating income in the same store portfolio are generally the same as for the total operating portfolio. In order to derive an appropriate measure of period-to-period operating performance, we remove the effects of foreign currency exchange rate movements by using the current exchange rate to translate from local currency into U.S. dollars, for both periods, to derive the same store results.
Same Store.
represents the change in the average occupied percentage for all periods presented.
Same Store Average Occupancy
represents gross property operating expenses. In computing the percentage change in rental expenses for the same store analysis, rental expenses include property management expenses for our direct owned properties based on the property management fee that has been computed as provided in the individual agreements under which our wholly owned management companies provide property management services to each property (generally, the fee is based on a percentage of revenues).
Same Store Rental Expense
represents the change in effective rental rates (average rate over the lease term) on new leases signed during the period as compared with the previous effective rental rates in that same space.
Same Store Rental Rate Growth
includes the amount of rental expenses that are recovered from customers under the terms of their respective lease agreements. In computing the percentage change in rental income for the same store analysis, rental income (as computed under GAAP) is adjusted to remove the net termination fees recognized for each period. Net termination fees generally represent the gross fee negotiated at the time a customer is allowed to terminate its lease agreement offset by the customer's rent leveling asset that was previously recognized. Removing the net termination fees for the same store calculation allows us to evaluate the growth or decline in each property's rental income without regard to items that are not indicative of the property's recurring operating performance. Customer terminations are negotiated under specific circumstances and are not subject to specific provisions or rights allowed under the lease agreements.
Same Store Rental Income
represent the costs incurred in connection with the signup of a lease, including leasing commissions and tenant improvements. Tenant improvements include costs to prepare a space for a new tenant, except for space that is being leased for the first time (i..e. in a new development property) and, for a lease renewal with the same tenant.
Turnover Costs
is generally defined as properties for which development has been completed for one year or are 90% occupied. Upon stabilization, a property is moved into our operating portfolio.
Stabilization
is the square footage of all leases rented by existing tenants divided by the square footage of all expiring and rented leases during the reporting period, excluding the square footage of tenants that default or buy-out prior to expiration of their lease, short-term tenants and the square footage of month-to-month leases.
Tenant Retention
represents total estimated cost of development or expansion, including land, development and leasing costs. TEI is based on current projections and is subject to change. Non-U.S. Dollar investments are translated to U.S. Dollars using the exchange rate at period end or the date of development start for purposes of calculating development starts in any period.
Total Estimated Investment ("TEI")
is defined by as our share of total debt plus the liquidation preference of the preferred shares and the market equity.
Total Market Capitalization


