FILE:GWW/GWW-8K-20040416081949.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 7.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 12.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 16, 2004 the registrant issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. A copy is provided as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
On April 16, 2004 the registrant issued to interested parties supplemental financial information for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. A copy is provided as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
             Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 16, 2004

CHICAGO, April 16, 2004  Grainger (NYSE: GWW) today reported a 21 percent increase in earnings per share for the first quarter ended March 31, 2004. Sales were $1.2 billion, up 8 percent over the prior year's first quarter. Net earnings were up 19 percent to $62.6 million. Earnings per share were 69 cents versus 57 cents in the 2003 first quarter. The 2004 quarter had one additional selling day.
"We achieved strong sales and earnings growth this quarter due to the strengthening economy and our improved customer service," said Grainger's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard L. Keyser.
"Over the past few years we've invested in our operations to improve performance and accelerate growth. We completed our logistics network project in March with the opening of our ninth distribution center in New Jersey. All of our distribution centers are up and running, and we continue to see productivity improvements while increasing product availability. The new logistics network provides the platform to grow our business."
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. - 2004 first quarter results Page 2 of 5
 
Keyser added, "In the first quarter we launched the second phase of our market expansion program and, to improve customer coverage, we added more than 100 sales representatives. We expect to see additional sales growth from these programs throughout the year."
Sales in the Branch-based Distribution segment increased by 7 percent in the 2004 first quarter. Sales in the United States were up 6 percent; sales to government accounts rose 9 percent, national accounts grew 7 percent and all other customer accounts were up 5 percent. Sales processed through grainger.com increased 25 percent to $143 million from $115 million in 2003.
Branch-based Distribution
A weak U.S. dollar accounted for Canada's 15 percent increase in sales for the quarter. Sales in Mexico were up 13 percent for the quarter driven by increased Internet sales, telesales and the effect of two branch expansions in 2003.
Operating earnings for the quarter were up 17 percent, a result of increased sales, improved gross margins, and proportionately lower operating expenses. Operating expenses included two programs, market expansion and accelerating the SAP installation. Expenses for both are expected to ramp up in subsequent quarters.
Sales for Lab Safety increased 20 percent for the quarter largely due to the acquisition of Gempler's in April 2003. Operating earnings were up 9 percent reflecting the sales increase partially offset by lower gross profit margins driven by a customer loyalty program at Gempler's. Lab Safety plans to continue to invest in catalog media to strengthen its customer file.
Lab Safety Supply
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. - 2004 first quarter results Page 3 of 5
 
Sales for Grainger Integrated Supply were up 3 percent for the quarter due to sales at new customer sites. Operating earnings for this segment were down 7 percent for the quarter, the result of severance expenses and lower management fees.
Integrated Supply
A reduced tax rate benefited the company in the quarter. Excluding the impact of unconsolidated entities, the effective tax rate decreased from 40 percent to 38 percent, adding 2 cents to EPS in the quarter. A reduced tax rate in Canada and the realization of tax loss carryforwards for the Mexican operation contributed to this rate decrease.
Other
Stronger earnings and continued improvements in working capital management contributed to operating cash flow of $93 million for the quarter versus $50 million in 2003. Capital expenditures in the quarter were $15 million. For the full year, the company now anticipates capital expenditures of no more than $200 million, in part because of a higher number of branches in the market expansion program may be leased instead of purchased. During the quarter, the company repurchased 785,300 shares of stock. Approximately 8.3 million shares remain under the current authorization.
Keyser concluded, "Previously, we had forecast earnings per share for 2004 between $2.45 and $2.70. Today, we are increasing our earnings per share guidance to $2.60 to $2.80 for 2004 due to the lower tax rate and strong execution in the first quarter."
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. - 2004 first quarter results Page 4 of 5
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. (NYSE: GWW), with 2003 sales of $4.7 billion, is the leading broad line supplier of facilities maintenance products serving businesses and institutions throughout North America. Through its network of nearly 600 branches, 17 distribution centers and multiple Web sites, Grainger helps customers save time and money by providing them with the right products to keep their facilities running.
This document contains forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements relate to the Company's expected future financial results and business plans, strategies and objectives and are not historical facts. They are generally identified by qualifiers such as "provides the platform", "expect", "expected", "plans to continue", "anticipates", "forecast", "earnings per share guidance" or similar expressions. There are risks and uncertainties the outcome of which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from what is projected. The forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's most recent annual report, as well as the Company's Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities Exchange Commission, containing a discussion of the Company's business and of various factors that may affect it.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. - 2004 first quarter results Page 5 of 5
 
*Under Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 02-16, "Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor", the company has classified vendor funded advertising allowances as cost of merchandise sold for 2004. For the first quarter of 2003, vendor funded advertising allowances of $16.3 million have been reclassified to cost of merchandise sold from operating (advertising) expenses for comparability. 2003 operating earnings were not affected.
Supplemental financial information concerning the quarter ended March 31, 2004 is available upon request. Requests may be submitted electronically via the Investor Relations section of or by contacting Renee Young, Manager, Financial Communications at 847/535-1544 or .
www.grainger.com
young.r.x@grainger.com

 
 
I.    EARNINGS REVIEW
Sales in the first quarter of 2004 were up 8% versus 2003. Sales benefited from an additional selling day and an improving economy.
On a daily basis, sales were up 6% driven by an increase in the Branch-based Distribution segment and at Lab Safety. The increase in the Branch-based Distribution segment was driven by government and national accounts growth in the United States and the benefit of a favorable Canadian exchange rate. Lab Safety benefited from the acquisition of Gempler's.
 
 
The Company's operating earnings were $101 million for the first quarter of 2004 versus $91 million for the first quarter of 2003. Operating earnings were higher for the Branch-based Distribution segment and Lab Safety, and lower for Integrated Supply.
During the quarter, the Company incurred $5.9 million in severance and benefits related to organizational changes, or 4 cents a share after-tax, partially offsetting the operating segments' performance.
The increase in ROIC was primarily attributable to higher operating earnings.
For the 2004 first quarter, "Other Income and Expense" was $0.4 million of income versus $3.4 million of expense for the 2003 quarter. The 2003 quarter included $1.6 million in expense for the write-down of investment securities. The remaining improvement is primarily attributable to lower equity losses of unconsolidated entities and higher interest income.
 
*See footnote, page 8.
II.   BALANCE SHEET DATA
        Selected Balance Sheet data as of March 31, 2004 (preliminary) and 2003 follow:
III.     CASH FLOW DATA
 
 
IV.     BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS
 Daily sales for this segment were up 6% for the quarter, reflecting the stronger North American economy.
Net Sales
Daily sales in the United States were up 5% versus 2003 reflecting growth across most customer segments led by government accounts. National account sales within these customer segments were up 6% for the quarter. Sales through the grainger.com web site were $143 million, a 25% increase versus first quarter 2003 sales of $115 million.
Daily sales in Canada increased 13% for the quarter versus 2003 due to the effect of a favorable Canadian exchange rate. In local currency, this business experienced a 1% decline in sales.
Daily sales in Mexico were up 11% for the quarter versus 2003 driven by telesales and the effect of two branch expansions in late 2003. Sales through grainger.com.mx were up 35%.
 
 
*See footnote, page 8. **In the first quarter, two branches were relocated to larger facilities as part of the market expansion program.
 
 Operating earnings for the 2004 first quarter were up 17% compared with the 2003 period, the result of higher sales, increased gross profits and operating leverage since expenses grew at a slower rate than sales.
Operating Earnings
The gross profit margin was up 0.5pp versus the comparable 2003 quarter. Contributing to the improvement in gross profit margin was improved product costs, the positive effect of product mix and selected price increases, partially offset by an unfavorable change in selling price category mix.
Operating expenses increased more slowly than sales, up 6% for the quarter. This favorability included lower spending for advertising and data processing. These improvements were partially offset by payroll and benefits increasing faster than sales due to higher accruals for profit sharing and bonus, and contract services for the SAP installation.
 Daily sales increased 18% for the quarter for Lab Safety, the Company's direct marketing business. The increase in sales was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Gempler's on April 14, 2003. Excluding this acquisition, daily sales for the quarter were up 1%.
Net Sales
 Operating earnings grew at a slower rate than sales reflecting lower gross profit margins, primarily attributable to a customer loyalty program at Gempler's. Operating expenses increased proportionately with sales including higher catalog media spending. Lab Safety continues to invest in media to strengthen its customer file.
Operating Earnings
*See footnote, page 8.
 
 
 Daily sales were up 1% for the quarter primarily due to incremental sales at eight customer locations added since the first quarter of 2003, partially offset by two site disengagements and lower volumes from existing customers. Sales for this business unit include product sales and management fees.
Net Sales
 The operating earnings decrease was primarily related to higher payroll and benefit expenses driven by severance from the site disengagements.
Operating Earnings
In 2003, the Company adopted those provisions relating to vendor funded advertising allowances per Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 02-16, "Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor". As a result of the transition rules for EITF Issue 02-16, in 2003 the Company classified $7.9 million as a reduction of cost of merchandise sold rather than a reduction of operating (advertising) expenses. In 2004, most vendor funded advertising allowances will be classified as a reduction of cost of merchandise sold. To maintain comparability, $16.3 million, $14.1 million, $10.7 million and $12.4 million were reclassified for each of the 2003 quarters, respectively.
Comments Regarding Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 02-16
The GAAP financial statements are the source for all amounts used in the Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) calculation. ROIC is calculated using annualized operating earnings based on year-to-date operating earnings divided by a four point average for net working assets. Net working assets are working assets minus working liabilities defined as follows: working assets equal total assets less cash equivalents (non-operating cash), deferred taxes, and investments in unconsolidated entities, plus the LIFO reserve. Working liabilities are the sum of trade payables, accrued compensation and benefits, accrued contributions to employees' profit sharing plans, and accrued expenses.
*Footnote:
Forward-Looking Statements
This document may contain forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements relate to the Company's expected future financial results and business plans, strategies and objectives and are not historical facts. They are generally identified by qualifiers such as "will", "projected", "estimate" or similar expressions. There are risks and uncertainties the outcome of which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from what is projected. The forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's most recent annual report, as well as the Company's Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities Exchange Commission, containing a discussion of the Company's business and of various factors that may affect it.
 
 
 
 
 


