FILE:GWW/GWW-8K-20040716080527.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 7.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 12.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 16, 2004 the registrant issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. A copy is provided as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
On July 16, 2004 the registrant issued to interested parties supplemental financial information for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. A copy is provided as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
             Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 16, 2004

CHICAGO, July 16, 2004  Grainger (NYSE: GWW) today reported a 20 percent increase in earnings per share for the second quarter ended June 30, 2004. Earnings per share were 72 cents versus 60 cents in the 2003 second quarter, setting an all-time quarterly high. Sales were $1.3 billion, up 7 percent versus the prior year's second quarter. Net earnings were up 19 percent to $66.6 million, also a new quarterly high.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard L. Keyser said, "Thanks to the hard work and dedication of Grainger's employees, we saw sales increase in our Branch-based and Lab Safety segments and solid earnings growth in all three business segments in the second quarter. Although much of the sales growth was helped by a strong economy, our ongoing strategic investments are expected to contribute even more to revenue growth in the future."
"During the quarter we increased efficiencies in the supply chain and improved product availability. Our nine distribution centers in the United States help provide
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. - 2004 second quarter results Page 2 of 5
better service by replenishing branches daily and shipping product to customers for next-day delivery. With the continuing productivity improvements, our redesigned logistics network is on schedule to contribute $10 million to operating earnings this year and $20 million in 2005."
Keyser added, "In the second quarter we hit several key milestones with our growth programs. We expanded and upgraded our sales force to gain market share. We made good progress with our market expansion program, particularly in Seattle and Denver, which are growing faster than the overall business. We continue to move aggressively into the St. Louis and Tampa markets, while tight real estate markets have affected our pace of expansion in Houston and Southern California." As part of its market expansion program, Grainger has opened two new branches, relocated three, expanded two, closed two, and opened six Grainger Express locations in target markets so far this year.
Sales in the Branch-based Distribution segment increased by 7 percent in the 2004 second quarter. Sales in the United States were up 8 percent, due largely to a strengthening manufacturing sector. Sales processed through grainger.com increased 32 percent in the quarter to $151 million from $115 million in 2003. Grainger now expects sales through this Web site of $575 to $625 million for 2004, up from the previous estimate of $500 to $550 million.
Branch-based Distribution
Sales in Mexico were up 12 percent in the quarter, driven by increased telesales and an improving economy. Although the Canadian economy grew in the quarter, Canadian sales were only up 2 percent (flat in Canadian dollars) because there was no counterpart to last year's sales of safety products related to the SARS epidemic.
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. - 2004 second quarter results Page 3 of 5
Operating earnings for the quarter were up 21 percent, the result of higher sales and improved gross profit margins. Although steel and copper prices affected many of the company's suppliers, product costs were down for the quarter. Operating expenses rose during the quarter as the company executed on its various strategic initiatives.
Sales for Lab Safety accelerated through the quarter, increasing 8 percent driven by double-digit increases in sales of labware, maintenance and material handling products. Operating earnings were up 8 percent, affected in part by higher catalog media and health care-related expenses.
Lab Safety Supply
While sales to existing customers were up modestly, overall sales were flat for the quarter due to two customer disengagements late in 2003. Operating earnings for Integrated Supply were up 88 percent for the quarter due to easy comparisons. The 2003 second quarter included higher data processing costs associated with a systems upgrade.
Integrated Supply
A lower tax rate benefited the company in the quarter. Excluding the results of unconsolidated entities, the effective tax rate declined 2 percentage points versus 2003, adding 2 cents per share to the results for the quarter. The reduced tax rate in 2004 in Canada, the realization of tax loss carryforwards for the Mexican operation and capital losses contributed to this rate decrease.
Other
Operating cash flow was $67 million for the quarter. The company increased its quarterly dividend by 8 percent in April and repurchased 190,600 shares of stock in the quarter, bringing the total purchased so far this year to 975,900. Approximately 8.1 million shares remain under the current share repurchase authorization.
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. - 2004 second quarter results Page 4 of 5
Capital expenditures were $27 million for the quarter. For the full year, the company has refined its capital expenditures projection to $150 to $175 million, because spending for the market expansion program is lower than originally planned.
Sales for the six months ended June 30, 2004, were $2.5 billion, up 7 percent versus the first six months of 2003. The first quarter and six months of 2004 contained one extra sales day. Net earnings increased 19 percent to $129 million versus $108 million in 2003. Earnings per share increased 21 percent to $1.41 from $1.17.
Six Months Results
Keyser concluded, "We are very excited about our growth initiatives. Our market expansion program and information technology enhancements are designed to provide better service to customers, which in turn helps drive growth. Given our strong performance to date, we've raised our 2004 earnings per share guidance; it was $2.60 to $2.80 and is now $2.65 to $2.85."
W.W. Grainger, Inc. (NYSE: GWW), with 2003 sales of $4.7 billion, is the leading broad line supplier of facilities maintenance products serving businesses and institutions throughout North America. Through its network of nearly 600 branches, 17 distribution centers and multiple Web sites, Grainger helps customers save time and money by providing them with the right products to keep their facilities running.
This document contains forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements relate to the Company's expected future financial results and business plans, strategies and objectives and are not historical facts. They are generally identified by qualifiers such as "expected to contribute", "on schedule", "continue to move", "expects", "estimate", "refined", "projections", "planned", "designed to provide", "earnings per share forecast" or similar expressions. There are risks and uncertainties the outcome of which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from what is projected. The forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's most recent annual report, as well as the Company's Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities Exchange Commission, containing a discussion of the Company's business and of various factors that may affect it.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. - 2004 first quarter results Page 5 of 5
*Under Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 02-16, "Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor", the company has classified vendor funded advertising allowances as cost of merchandise sold for 2004. For the second quarter of 2003, vendor funded advertising allowances of $14.1 million have been reclassified to cost of merchandise sold from operating (advertising) expenses for comparability. Year-to-date, vendor funded advertising allowances of $30.4 million have been reclassified. 2003 operating earnings were not affected.
Supplemental financial information concerning the quarter ended June 30, 2004 is available upon request. Requests may be submitted electronically via the Investor Relations section of or by contacting Renee Young, Manager, Financial Communications at 847/535-1544 or .
www.grainger.com
young.r.x@grainger.com

 
 
I.  EARNINGS REVIEW
Sales in the second quarter benefited from a strong economy and several strategic initiatives.
On a daily basis, sales were up 7% driven by an increase in the Branch-based Distribution segment and at Lab Safety. The increase in the Branch-based Distribution segment was primarily driven by a strengthening manufacturing sector. Lab Safety was primarily driven by double-digit sales growth of labware, maintenance and material handling products.
*Impacted by Gempler's acquisition effective April 14, 2003.
The Company's operating earnings were $107 million for the second quarter of 2004 versus $93 million for the second quarter of 2003. Operating earnings were higher for all segments, partially offset by higher operating expenses at headquarters. The improvement related primarily to the Branch-based segment and reflected higher margins and warehouse productivity, partially offset by expenses related to strategic initiatives and information technology. The higher operating expenses at headquarters related to increases in payroll and benefits, primarily driven by increased stock-based compensation and bonus and profit sharing accruals.
The increase in ROIC was primarily attributable to higher operating earnings.
For the 2004 second quarter, "Other Income and Expense" was $0.5 million of income versus $1.1 million of income for the 2003 quarter. The 2003 quarter included $2.8 million of gains related to the sale of two facilities. The remaining change is primarily attributable to an improvement in the results of unconsolidated entities and higher interest income in 2004.
The Company's effective income tax rate was 37.9% for the 2004 second quarter and 40.3% for the 2003 second quarter. Excluding the effect of equity in unconsolidated entities, which is recorded net of tax, the effective income tax rate was 38.0% for 2004 and 40.0% for 2003. This change in effective tax rate was primarily driven by a lower tax rate in Canada and the realization of tax benefits related to operations in Mexico and to capital losses.
 *See footnote, page 8.
 
II.  BALANCE SHEET DATA
        Selected Balance Sheet data as of June 30, 2004 (preliminary) and 2003 follow:
III.  CASH FLOW DATA
       The following is a summarized cash flow statement for the six months ended June 30 (preliminary):
 
IV.  BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS
 Daily sales for this segment were up 7% for the quarter, reflecting the stronger North American economy.
Net Sales
Daily sales in the United States were up 8% versus 2003 reflecting growth across most customer segments, led primarily by manufacturing. National account sales within these customer segments were up 9% for the quarter. Sales to government accounts were up 6% which was a lower growth rate than recent quarters. This lower growth rate related to military and local and state governments. Sales through the grainger.com Web site were $151 million, a 32% increase versus second quarter 2003 sales of $115 million.
Daily sales in Canada increased 2% for the quarter versus 2003 due to the effect of a favorable Canadian exchange rate. In local currency, sales for this business were flat. Economic growth in the quarter was offset by a decline in safety product sales because there was no counterpart to last year's sales of safety products related to the SARS epidemic.
 *See footnote, page 8.
Daily sales in Mexico were up 12% for the quarter versus 2003 driven by an improving economy, telesales and the effect of two branch expansions in late 2003.
 Operating earnings for the 2004 second quarter were up 21% compared with the 2003 period, the result of higher sales and increased gross profits.
Operating Earnings
The gross profit margin was up 1.0pp versus the comparable 2003 quarter. Contributing to the improvement in gross profit margin were lower product costs, the positive effect of product mix, partially offset by an unfavorable change in selling price category mix.
Operating expenses increased at the same rate as sales, up 7% for the quarter. The operating expense increase was primarily driven by increased sales commissions and higher employee benefits. These increases were mitigated by non-commission payroll growing slower than sales as productivity improvements, primarily in the logistics network, controlled headcount additions.
 Daily sales increased 8% for the quarter for Lab Safety, the Company's direct marketing business. The increase in sales was primarily driven by double-digit sales growth of labware, maintenance and material handling products. Sales through the Lab Safety Web sites were up 24% for the quarter.
Net Sales
 Operating earnings grew at the same rate as sales reflecting lower gross profit margins, offset by operating expenses growing slower than sales. Lower gross margins were the result of increased sales to large accounts that receive higher discounts and increased quote sales. Operating expenses increased slower than sales due to cost controls in most categories except benefits, which reflected higher healthcare costs.
Operating Earnings
*See footnote, page 8.
 Daily sales were flat for the quarter. Incremental sales at eight customer locations added since the second quarter of 2003, were offset by two customer disengagements in late 2003. Sales for this business unit include product sales and management fees.
Net Sales
 The operating earnings increase was primarily related to lower data processing expenses and reduced bad debt provision.
Operating Earnings
In 2003, the Company adopted those provisions relating to vendor funded advertising allowances per Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 02-16, "Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor". As a result of the transition rules for EITF Issue 02-16, in 2003 the Company classified $7.9 million as a reduction of cost of merchandise sold rather than a reduction of operating (advertising) expenses. In 2004, most vendor funded advertising allowances will be classified as a reduction of cost of merchandise sold. To maintain comparability, $16.3 million, $14.1 million, $10.7 million and $12.4 million were reclassified for each of the 2003 quarters, respectively. The GAAP financial statements are the source for all amounts used in the Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) calculation. ROIC is calculated using annualized operating earnings based on year-to-date operating earnings divided by a seven point average for net working assets. Net working assets are working assets minus working liabilities defined as follows: working assets equal total assets less cash equivalents (non-operating cash), deferred taxes, and investments in unconsolidated entities, plus the LIFO reserve. Working liabilities are the sum of trade payables, accrued compensation and benefits, accrued contributions to employees' profit sharing plans, and accrued expenses.
Comments Regarding Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 02-16
*:
Footnote
Forward-Looking Statements
This document may contain forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements relate to the Company's expected future financial results and business plans, strategies and objectives and are not historical facts. They are generally identified by qualifiers such as "will", "projected", "estimate" or similar expressions. There are risks and uncertainties the outcome of which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from what is projected. The forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's most recent annual report, as well as the Company's Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, containing a discussion of the Company's business and of various factors that may affect it.
 
 
 


