FILE:GWW/GWW-8K-20051017082531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 17, 2005 the registrant issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy is provided as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
On October 17, 2005 the registrant issued to interested parties supplemental financial information for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy is provided as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits (numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K).
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 17, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
CHICAGO, October 17, 2005  Grainger (NYSE: GWW) today reported sales of $1.4 billion, up 10 percent versus the prior year's third quarter. Earnings per share increased to 97 cents versus 74 cents in the 2004 third quarter, up 31 percent. Net earnings were up 30 percent to $88.1 million.
 
"This record performance is the result of our employees' commitment to customer service, helping drive positive sales and earnings growth," said Grainger Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard L. Keyser. "As a result of our performance and outlook, we're raising our 2005 earnings per share estimate from $3.40 to $3.60 to a guidance range of $3.60 to $3.70. During the quarter we effectively continued to execute programs to further improve service to our customers, including market expansion and our SAP infrastructure."
 
Keyser added, "I'm proud of how Grainger employees responded to the communities affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Backed by a national logistics network, teams from across the country provided products to help the recovery efforts along the Gulf Coast." During the quarter, Grainger also contributed $1.2 million in cash to the American Red Cross, matching employee donations four-to-one.
W.W. Grainger, Inc.  2005 third quarter results
Page 2 of 5
 
Branch-based Distribution
 
Sales in the Branch-based Distribution segment increased by 10 percent in the 2005 third quarter versus the 2004 quarter. Strong growth in all customer sectors except transportation contributed to a 9 percent increase in sales in the United States. Improved sales of seasonal products contributed approximately 1 percentage point to sales growth. Overall, U.S. sales growth was reduced 2 percentage points as a result of the wind-down of Integrated Supply and automotive-related contracts.
 
Hurricane-related sales for the quarter were approximately $4 million below the same period last year. Damage to company facilities as a result of the hurricanes was minimal.
 
Sales in Phase 1 of the market expansion program (Atlanta, Denver and Seattle) grew by 9 percent in the quarter. Sales growth in the Denver market continued to be affected by lower sales to one large customer. Excluding the effect of that customer, sales in Phase 1 were up 13 percent. Sales in Phase 2, covering four markets in Southern California, were up 17 percent for the quarter. Sales in Phase 3  Houston, St. Louis and Tampa  were up 18 percent. In total, market expansion contributed approximately 1 percentage point to the 10 percent segment sales growth. Phase 1 was completed in the first quarter of 2005, when the final branch opened in Seattle. Phase 2 is 90 percent complete and Phase 3 is 70 percent complete.
 
Sales in Mexico were up 18 percent in the quarter versus the 2004 period, driven by a strengthening Mexican economy, additional telesales efforts and the opening of a new branch in September 2004. Canadian operations benefited from increased sales in the natural resources industry and a favorable exchange rate, with overall sales for the quarter up 16 percent (7 percent in Canadian currency).
W.W. Grainger, Inc.  2005 third quarter results
Page 3 of 5
 
Operating earnings for the quarter were up 27 percent in the Branch-based Distribution segment, the result of higher sales and improved gross profit. The segment's gross profit margins continued to benefit from the positive effect of product mix and exiting lower-margin Integrated Supply and automotive contracts. The market expansion initiative in Phases 1, 2 and 3 approached break-even from an operating earnings standpoint for the third quarter versus a loss in the 2004 quarter. However, entering future expansion markets will affect operating earnings performance.
 
Lab Safety Supply
 
Lab Safety Supply's sales for the quarter were up 13 percent, primarily the result of the acquisition of AW Direct in January 2005. Also contributing to the growth was an increase in volume in the core product lines. Operating earnings were up 9 percent, affected by an increase in spending on catalog media, information technology and healthcare costs.
 
Company
 
The company continued to benefit from a lower tax rate of 36.8 percent versus the 2004 quarter of 37.8 percent.
 
Operating cash flow was $169 million for the quarter. The company used cash to fund growth initiatives, including market expansion and SAP programs, with capital expenditures in the quarter of $39 million.
 
Grainger also repurchased 294,100 shares of stock during the quarter, bringing the total for 2005 to 2.1 million shares. Approximately 4.9 million shares remain under the current authorization.
W.W. Grainger, Inc.  2005 third quarter results
Page 4 of 5
 
Nine Months Results
 
Sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2005, were $4.1 billion, up 9 percent versus the first nine months of 2004. Net earnings increased 23 percent to $242 million versus $197 million in 2004. Earnings per share increased 23 percent to $2.65 from $2.15.
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. (NYSE: GWW), with 2004 sales of $5 billion, is the leading broad line supplier of facilities maintenance products serving businesses and institutions throughout North America. Through a network of nearly 600 branches, 18 distribution centers and multiple Web sites, Grainger helps customers save time and money by providing them with the right products to keep their facilities running.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This document contains forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements relate to the company's expected future financial results and business plans, strategies and objectives and are not historical facts. They are generally identified by qualifiers such as "will affect," "outlook," "earnings per share estimate," "guidance range," "percent complete," or similar expressions. There are risks and uncertainties the outcome of which could cause the company's results to differ materially from what is projected. The forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the company's most recent annual report, as well as the company's Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities & Exchange Commission, containing a discussion of the company's business and of various factors that may affect it.
W.W. Grainger, Inc.  2005 third quarter results
Page 5 of 5
 
 
 
Supplemental financial information concerning the quarter ended September 30, 2005 is available upon request. Requests may be submitted electronically via the Investor Relations section of or by contacting Renee Young, Financial Communications Manager, at 847.535.1544 or .
www.grainger.com
renee.young@grainger.com
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. EARNINGS REVIEW
 
 
 
Sales in the third quarter benefited from a strong economy, ongoing strategic initiatives and a favorable Canadian exchange rate.
 
 
Sales were up 10% driven by an increase in both segments. The increase in the Branch-based Distribution segment was led by strong sales to the government, manufacturing and natural resource sectors, and a favorable Canadian exchange rate. Improved sales of seasonal products contributed approximately 1 percentage point to the sales growth. Partially offsetting these improvements was the negative effect of the wind-down of Integrated Supply and related automotive contracts. Hurricane-related sales were approximately $8 million in the third quarter of 2005 versus approximately $12 million in the third quarter of 2004. Lab Safety benefited from the 2005 acquisition of AW Direct.
 
 
 
The Company's operating earnings were $136 million for the third quarter of 2005 versus $107 million for the third quarter of 2004. The operating earnings improvement was from both the Branch-based Distribution and Lab Safety segments, partially offset by higher operating expenses at headquarters. Contributing to the increase in expenses at headquarters was $1.2 million of Company matching contributions for Hurricane Katrina.
 
The increase in ROIC was primarily attributable to higher operating earnings.
 
 
For the 2005 third quarter, "Other Income and Expense" was $3.8 million of income versus $1.4 million of income for the 2004 quarter. The increase was primarily attributable to higher net interest income and an improvement in the results of unconsolidated entities.
 
 
The Company's effective income tax rate was 36.8% for the 2005 third quarter and 37.8% for the 2004 third quarter. Excluding the effect of equity in unconsolidated entities, which is recorded net of tax, the effective income tax rate for the quarter was 37.0% for 2005 and 38.0% for 2004. The change in effective tax rate was primarily the result of tax benefits related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, the utilization of tax benefits related to operations in Mexico, and lower provisions related to uncertainties.
 
 
 
II. BALANCE SHEET DATA
 
Selected Balance Sheet data as of September 30, 2005 (preliminary) and 2004 follow:
 
 
 
III. CASH FLOW DATA
 
The following is a summarized cash flow statement for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 (preliminary) and 2004:
 
 
 
IV. BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 Sales for this segment were up 10% for the quarter, reflecting the stronger North American economy, ongoing strategic initiatives in the United States and a favorable Canadian exchange rate.
Net Sales
 
Sales in the United States were up 9% versus 2004 reflecting growth across all customer segments, led by the government, manufacturing and natural resource sectors. National account sales within all customer segments were up 12% for the quarter. Improved sales of seasonal products contributed approximately 1 percentage point to the sales growth. The wind-down of Integrated Supply and related automotive contracts reduced sales by approximately 2 percentage points. Hurricane-related sales were approximately $8 million in the third quarter of 2005 versus approximately $12 million in the third quarter of 2004.
 
 
 
 
Results for the market expansion program were as follows:
 
 
Overall, market expansion contributed approximately 1 percentage point to the 10% sales growth. The sales growth in Phase 1 was negatively affected in the Denver market due to lower sales to one large customer. Excluding the effect of this customer, sales in Phase 1 were up 13%.
 
Sales in Canada increased 16% for the quarter versus 2004 due to a stronger economy, primarily in the natural resources sector, and the effect of a favorable Canadian exchange rate. In local currency, sales for this business were up 7%.
 
Sales in Mexico were up 18% for the quarter versus 2004 driven by an improving economy, an expanded telesales operation, and the opening of a new branch in Queretaro in September 2004.
 
 Branch-based operating earnings for the 2005 third quarter were up 27% compared with the 2004 period, the result of higher sales and improved gross profit margins, partially offset by operating expenses, which grew faster than sales. The market expansion initiative in Phase 1, 2 and 3 approached break-even from an operating earnings standpoint for the third quarter versus a loss in the 2004 quarter. However, entering future expansion markets will affect operating earnings performance.
Operating Earnings
 
The gross profit margin was up 1.6 percentage points versus the comparable 2004 quarter. Contributing to the improvement in gross profit margin were selling price category mix and the positive effect of product mix. A major driver of the improvement in the selling price category mix was reduced sales to Integrated Supply and automotive customers, which carry lower margins than the overall average.
 
The operating expense growth was primarily driven by increased costs related to market expansion and the SAP system, as well as higher sales commissions, partially offset by lower bad debt provisions. Damage to Company facilities as a result of hurricanes was minimal.
 
 
 
 
 Sales increased 13% for the quarter for Lab Safety, the Company's direct marketing business, primarily due to the acquisition of AW Direct in January 2005. Also contributing to the improvement was an increase in core product lines.
Net Sales
 
 Operating earnings for the 2005 third quarter were up 9%. The improvement in operating earnings was due to higher sales and improved gross profit margins, partially offset by increased operating expenses. Contributing to this improvement was the benefit from the results of AW Direct. The operating expense increase was primarily due to higher media, healthcare and information technology costs.
Operating Earnings
 
 
The GAAP financial statements are the source for all amounts used in the Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) calculation. ROIC is calculated using annualized operating earnings based on year-to-date operating earnings divided by a ten point average for net working assets. Net working assets are working assets minus working liabilities defined as follows: working assets equal total assets less cash equivalents (non-operating cash), deferred taxes, and investments in unconsolidated entities, plus the LIFO reserve. Working liabilities are the sum of trade payables, accrued compensation and benefits, accrued contributions to employees' profit sharing plans, and accrued expenses.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This document may contain forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements relate to the Company's expected future financial results and business plans, strategies and objectives and are not historical facts. They are generally identified by qualifiers such as "estimate of completion" or similar expressions. There are risks and uncertainties the outcome of which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from what is projected. The forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's most recent annual report, as well as the Company's Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, containing a discussion of the Company's business and of various factors that may affect it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


