FILE:GWW/GWW-8K-20050715075630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [  ]     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 15, 2005 the registrant issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. A copy is provided as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
On July 15, 2005 the registrant issued to interested parties supplemental financial information for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. A copy is provided as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
             Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 15, 2005

CHICAGO, July 15, 2005  Grainger (NYSE: GWW) today reported a 24 percent increase in earnings per share for the second quarter ended June 30, 2005. Earnings per share of 89 cents versus 72 cents in the 2004 quarter set an all-time, second quarter high. Sales were $1.4 billion, up 9 percent over the prior year's second quarter. Net earnings were up 22 percent to $82 million.
"Our performance in the second quarter reflects our disciplined customer-service approach. It also demonstrates the true earnings potential of this business," said Grainger's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard L. Keyser. "Given our strong performance to date, we've raised the range of our 2005 earnings per share guidance from $3.20 to $3.45 to $3.40 to $3.60.
"In the second quarter we continued to see solid sales growth, in spite of disengagements from a number of contracts related to our Integrated Supply and automotive customers. The improvement in gross profit margins as a result of the
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc.  2005 second quarter results Page 2 of 5
replacement of these sales with higher margin business improved overall earnings." Keyser added, "We are committed to improving service to our customers as they look for new ways to reduce costs. During the second quarter we continued to invest in our SAP system and our metro market expansion programs to enhance our service offering."
Sales in the Branch-based Distribution segment were up 9 percent in the 2005 second quarter. In the United States, sales were up 8 percent with growth in all customer end markets, including the manufacturing, commercial and government sectors. Sales growth was reduced 2 percentage points as a result of the wind-down of Integrated Supply and related automotive contracts.
Branch-based Distribution
Phase 1 of the market expansion program  Atlanta, Denver and Seattle  is complete, with sales up 4 percent for the quarter. Sales growth in the Denver market was principally affected by lower sales to one large customer. Excluding the effect of that customer, sales in Phase 1 were up 11 percent. Phase 2, covering four markets in Southern California, is now 80 percent complete; sales in the quarter were up 13 percent. Phase 3  Houston, St. Louis and Tampa  is 65 percent complete. Sales were up 23 percent for the quarter. During the quarter, Tampa benefited from a state tax holiday designed to encourage residents and businesses to purchase products related to hurricane preparedness. In total, market expansion contributed approximately 1 percentage point to the 9 percent segment sales growth.
Sales in Canada were up 19 percent for the quarter  9 percent in local currency  due primarily to strong sales in the natural resource sector. Sales in Mexico were up 24 percent for the quarter, as an improving economy, expanded telesales and additional branch coverage contributed to the increase.
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc.  2005 second quarter results Page 3 of 5
Operating earnings for the Branch-based Distribution segment were up 16 percent as a result of higher sales and a 1.9 percentage point improvement in gross profit margins, partially offset by higher operating expenses primarily related to the market expansion and SAP. Higher gross profit margins were principally the result of programs to control product costs and improve pricing as well as the effect of reduced lower-margin Integrated Supply and automotive business.
Sales for Lab Safety Supply (LSS) increased 14 percent during the quarter, with growth in all product lines and the acquisition of AW Direct in January 2005. Operating earnings increased 12 percent during the quarter due to higher gross profit margins partially offset by higher operating expenses, including one time acquisition-related expenses for the integration of AW Direct.
Lab Safety Supply (LSS)
The company continued to benefit from a lower tax rate versus the 2004 quarter. The lower tax rate resulted from a lower tax rate in Canada and the utilization of tax benefits related to operations in Mexico.
Tax Rate
Operating cash flow was $102 million for the quarter. The company internally funded its growth initiatives with capital expenditures for the quarter of $42 million. Grainger also repurchased 1.6 million shares of stock during the quarter, which increased second quarter earnings 1 cent per share. The company has an active share repurchase program and approximately 5.2 million shares remain under the current authorization.
Cash Flow
Sales for the six months ended June 30, 2005, were $2.7 billion, up 9 percent versus the first six months of 2004. Net earnings increased 20 percent to $154 million
Six Months Results
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc.  2005 second quarter results Page 4 of 5
versus $129 million in 2004. Earnings per share increased 19 percent to $1.68 from $1.41.
W.W. Grainger, Inc. (NYSE: GWW), with 2004 sales of $5 billion, is the leading broad line supplier of facilities maintenance products serving businesses and institutions throughout North America. Through its network of nearly 600 branches, 18 distribution centers and multiple Web sites, Grainger helps customers save time and money by providing them with the right products to keep their facilities running.
This document contains forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements relate to the company's expected future financial results and business plans, strategies and objectives and are not historical facts. They are generally identified by qualifiers such as "earnings potential," "expect," "estimated," "range," "plan," "projected," "earnings per share guidance" or similar expressions. There are risks and uncertainties the outcome of which could cause the company's results to differ materially from what is projected. The forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the company's most recent annual report, as well as the company's Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities & Exchange Commission, containing a discussion of the company's business and of various factors that may affect it.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc.  2005 second quarter results Page 5 of 5
Supplemental financial information concerning the quarter ended June 30, 2005 is available upon request. Requests may be submitted electronically via the Investor Relations section of or by contacting Renee Young, Manager, Financial Communications at 847.535.1544 or .
www.grainger.com
renee.young@grainger.com

 
 
I.  EARNINGS REVIEW
Sales in the second quarter benefited from an improving economy, ongoing strategic initiatives and a favorable Canadian exchange rate. Also contributing to the improved comparison was the positive effect from the timing of the Easter holiday, which fell into the first quarter of 2005 versus the second quarter of 2004.
Sales were up 9% driven by an increase in both segments. The increase in the Branch-based Distribution segment was primarily driven by strong sales to the government, manufacturing and commercial sectors, and a favorable Canadian exchange rate. Lab Safety benefited from the acquisition of AW Direct. April sales were positively affected by the timing of the Easter holiday. Both May and June were affected by summer seasonal sales with May colder and June warmer than the prior year periods.
 
 
The Company's operating earnings were $127 million for the second quarter of 2005 versus $107 million for the second quarter of 2004. The operating earnings improvement was from both the Branch-based Distribution and Lab Safety segments, as well as from lower operating expenses at headquarters. The lower operating expenses at headquarters were primarily due to severance in the 2004 second quarter related to organizational changes.
The increase in ROIC was primarily attributable to higher operating earnings, partially offset by a lower asset turnover.
For the 2005 second quarter, "Other Income and Expense" was $2.0 million of income versus $0.5 million of income for the 2004 quarter. The increase was primarily attributable to the following: higher net interest income and an improvement in the results of unconsolidated entities, partially offset by losses related to fixed assets.
The Company's effective income tax rate was 36.7% for the 2005 second quarter and 37.9% for the 2004 second quarter. Excluding the effect of equity in unconsolidated entities, which is recorded net of tax, the effective income tax rate for the quarter was 37.0% for 2005 and 38.0% for 2004. The change in effective tax rate was the result of a lower tax rate in Canada and the utilization of tax benefits related to operations in Mexico.
 *See footnote, page 8.
 
 
   II. BALANCE SHEET DATA
        Selected Balance Sheet data as of June 30, 2005 (preliminary) and 2004 follow:
 
III.  CASH FLOW DATA
       The following is a summarized cash flow statement for the six months ended June 30, 2005 (preliminary) and 2004:
 
IV.  BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS
 Sales for this segment were up 9% for the quarter, reflecting the stronger North American economy, ongoing strategic initiatives in the United States, and a favorable Canadian exchange rate. Also contributing to the improved comparisons was the positive effect from the timing of the Easter holiday, which fell into the first quarter of 2005 versus the second quarter of 2004.
Net Sales
Sales in the United States were up 8% versus 2004 reflecting growth across all customer segments, led by the government, manufacturing and commercial sectors. National account sales within all customer segments were up 12% for the quarter. The sales growth was reduced 2 percentage points as a result of the wind-down of Integrated Supply and related automotive contracts.
*See footnote, page 8.
 
Results for the market expansion program were as follows:
Overall, market expansion contributed approximately 1 percentage point to the 9% sales growth. The sales growth in Phase 1 was negatively affected in the Denver market due to lower sales to one large customer. Excluding the effect of this customer, sales in Phase 1 were up 11%.
Sales in Canada increased 19% for the quarter versus 2004 due to a stronger economy, primarily in the natural resources sector, and the effect of a favorable Canadian exchange rate. In local currency, sales for this business were up 9%.
Sales in Mexico were up 24% for the quarter versus 2004 driven by an improving economy, an expanded telesales operation, and the opening of a new branch in Queretaro in the third quarter of 2004.
 Operating earnings for the 2005 second quarter were up 16% compared with the 2004 period, the result of higher sales and improved gross profit margins and warehouse productivity, partially offset by operating expenses, which grew faster than sales.
Operating Earnings
The gross profit margin was up 1.9 percentage points versus the comparable 2004 quarter. Contributing to the improvement in gross profit margin were selling price category mix and the positive effect of product mix. A major driver of the improvement in the selling price category mix was reduced sales to Integrated Supply and automotive customers, which carry lower margins than the overall average.
The operating expense growth was primarily driven by increased costs related to market expansion and the SAP system, as well as higher sales commissions and profit sharing accruals.
 
 Sales increased 14% for the quarter for Lab Safety, the Company's direct marketing business, primarily due to the acquisition of AW Direct in January 2005 and increased volume in the core product lines.
Net Sales
 Operating earnings for the 2005 second quarter were up 12%. The improvement in operating earnings was due to higher sales and improved gross profit margins, partially offset by increased operating expenses. Also contributing to the improvement was the benefit from the results of AW Direct, partially offset by one-time acquisition-related costs.
Operating Earnings
* The GAAP financial statements are the source for all amounts used in the Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) calculation. ROIC is calculated using annualized operating earnings based on year-to-date operating earnings divided by a seven point average for net working assets. Net working assets are working assets minus working liabilities defined as follows: working assets equal total assets less cash equivalents (non-operating cash), deferred taxes, and investments in unconsolidated entities, plus the LIFO reserve. Working liabilities are the sum of trade payables, accrued compensation and benefits, accrued contributions to employees' profit sharing plans, and accrued expenses.
Footnote:
Forward-Looking Statements
This document may contain forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements relate to the Company's expected future financial results and business plans, strategies and objectives and are not historical facts. They are generally identified by qualifiers such as "estimate of completion" or similar expressions. There are risks and uncertainties the outcome of which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from what is projected. The forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's most recent annual report, as well as the Company's Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, containing a discussion of the Company's business and of various factors that may affect it.
 
 
 
 


