FILE:GWW/GWW-8K-20050415080138.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [  ]     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 15, 2005 the registrant issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. A copy is provided as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
On April 15, 2005 the registrant issued to interested parties supplemental financial information for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. A copy is provided as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
             Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 15, 2005

CHICAGO, April 15, 2005  Grainger (NYSE: GWW) today reported a 14 percent increase in earnings per share for the first quarter ended March 31, 2005. Earnings per share of 79 cents versus 69 cents in the 2004 quarter set a first quarter record. Sales were $1.3 billion, up 9 percent over the prior year's first quarter. Net earnings were up 16 percent to $72.8 million.
Grainger's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard L. Keyser said, "Overall in the first quarter we saw healthy sales growth in the government, manufacturing, transportation and commercial sectors, even though March sales showed some softness, particularly at the end of the month due to the timing of the Easter holiday. Our market expansion program remains on track and is contributing to our growth rate. We are also continuing to see improvements in product availability resulting from our logistics network."
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. - 2005 first quarter results Page 2 of 5
Keyser added, "During the first quarter we continued to work on our SAP system. I'm pleased that the team has virtually completed development and that additional testing has been built into the plan. We now expect to begin implementation in the first half of 2006. When complete, the new system will provide us with a single, uniform platform that will help us better serve customers." Keyser reiterated the company's projected earnings per share guidance of $3.20 to $3.45 for 2005.
Sales in the Branch-based Distribution segment were up 9 percent in the 2005 first quarter. In the United States, sales were up 8 percent, with growth in all customer end markets, led by the manufacturing and commercial sectors.
Branch-based Distribution
Phase 1 of the market expansion program  Atlanta, Denver and Seattle  is complete; sales were up 11 percent for the quarter, in spite of weakness in the Denver market. Phase 2, covering four markets in Southern California, is now 65 percent complete, with sales up 14 percent. Phase 3  Houston, St. Louis and Tampa  is 55 percent complete with sales up 19 percent for the quarter. Overall, market expansion contributed 1.3 percentage points to the 9 percent segment sales growth.
Sales in Canada were up 12 percent for the quarter, 4 percent in local currency, due primarily to increased sales in the natural resource sector. Sales in Mexico were up 15 percent for the quarter, driven by enhanced telesales efforts and incremental sales from one new and one expanded branch, both added in 2004.
Operating earnings for the Branch-based Distribution segment were up 2 percent. This increase was primarily the result of volume growth and improved gross profit margins, partially offset by higher operating expenses. Excluding the impact of the market expansion program, operating earnings would have been up 10 percent.
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. - 2005 first quarter results Page 3 of 5
Sales for Lab Safety Supply (LSS) increased 9 percent, in large part due to the acquisition of AW Direct, Inc., in January 2005, and increased volume in core product lines. These increases were partially offset by the discontinuation of Harvest Partners, a customer loyalty program, in April 2004. Operating earnings increased 15 percent during the quarter due to the sales increase and improved gross profit margins, partially offset by operating expenses, which increased 14 percent.
Lab Safety Supply (LSS)
The company benefited from higher interest income and lower interest expense versus the 2004 quarter. This change was the result of higher average cash balances and higher interest rates. In 2004, the company paid off the majority of its debt. Additionally, the company had gains on the sale of five branches: four located in the United States that were affected by the market expansion program, and one located in Canada.
Other Income/Expense
The company benefited modestly from a lower tax rate versus the 2004 quarter. The estimated effective tax rate of 37 percent is 1 percentage point lower than the 38 percent rate in the 2004 quarter. This reduction is the result of a lower tax rate in Canada and the realization of tax benefits related to operations in Mexico.
Tax Rate
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. - 2005 first quarter results Page 4 of 5
Operating cash flow was $13 million for the quarter. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $35 million. The company funded its growth initiatives, including the acquisition of AW Direct, Inc., paid dividends and repurchased 239,400 shares of stock during the quarter. Approximately 6.8 million shares remain under the current authorization.
Cash Flow
W.W. Grainger, Inc. (NYSE: GWW), with 2004 sales of $5 billion, is the leading broad line supplier of facilities maintenance products serving businesses and institutions throughout North America. Through its network of nearly 600 branches, 17 distribution centers and multiple Web sites, Grainger helps customers save time and money by providing them with the right products to keep their facilities running.
This document contains forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements relate to the company's expected future financial results and business plans, strategies and objectives and are not historical facts. They are generally identified by qualifiers such as "remains on track," "expect," "estimated," "expectations," "projected," "earnings per share guidance" or similar expressions. There are risks and uncertainties the outcome of which could cause the company's results to differ materially from what is projected. The forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the company's most recent annual report, as well as the company's Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities & Exchange Commission, containing a discussion of the company's business and of various factors that may affect it.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. - 2005 first quarter results Page 5 of 5
Supplemental financial information concerning the quarter ended March 31, 2005 is available upon request. Requests may be submitted electronically via the Investor Relations section of or by contacting Renee Young, Manager, Financial Communications at 847.535.1544 or .
www.grainger.com
renee.young@grainger.com

 
 
I.  EARNINGS REVIEW
Sales in the first quarter benefited from the economy, market share gains, ongoing strategic initiatives and a favorable Canadian exchange rate. Partially offsetting these positive effects was the negative impact from the timing of the Easter holiday, which fell into the first quarter of 2005 versus the second quarter of 2004.
Sales were up 9% driven by an increase in both segments. The increase in the Branch-based Distribution segment was primarily driven by strengthening manufacturing and commercial sectors and a favorable Canadian exchange rate. Lab Safety benefited from the acquisition of AW Direct, Inc. Overall, March sales were negatively impacted by the timing of the Easter holiday.
 
 
The Company's operating earnings were $109 million for the first quarter of 2005 versus $101 million for the first quarter of 2004. The operating earnings improvement was from both the Branch-based Distribution and Lab Safety segments, as well as from lower operating expenses at headquarters. The operating earnings improvement in the Branch-based Distribution segment reflected higher gross profit margins, warehouse productivity, lower bonus accruals and lower bad debt provisions. Partially offsetting these improvements were increased expenses related to market expansion and the SAP system, as well as higher sales commissions and profit sharing accruals. The improvement at Lab Safety was primarily due to improved margins and the acquisition of AW Direct, Inc. The lower operating expenses at headquarters primarily related to severance and benefits in the 2004 first quarter related to organizational changes.
The increase in ROIC was primarily attributable to higher operating earnings, partially offset by a lower asset turnover.
For the 2005 first quarter, "Other Income and Expense" was $6.6 million of income versus $0.4 million of income for the 2004 quarter. The increase was primarily attributable to the following: higher net interest income in 2005 versus 2004, an improvement in the results of unconsolidated entities and gains on the sale of five facilities.
The Company's effective income tax rate was 36.9% for the 2005 first quarter and 38.1% for the 2004 first quarter. Excluding the effect of equity in unconsolidated entities, which is recorded net of tax, the effective income tax rate was 37.0% for 2005 and 38.0% for 2004. The change in effective tax rate was the result of a lower tax rate in Canada and the realization of tax benefits related to operations in Mexico.
 *See footnote, page 8.
 
II.  BALANCE SHEET DATA
        Selected Balance Sheet data as of March 31, 2005 (preliminary) and 2004 follow:
 
 
III.  CASH FLOW DATA
       The following is a summarized cash flow statement for the three months ended March 31, 2005 (preliminary) and 2004:
 
 
IV.  BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS
 Sales for this segment were up 9% for the quarter, reflecting the stronger North American economy, market share gains and ongoing strategic initiatives in the United States, and a favorable Canadian exchange rate. Partially offsetting these increases was the negative impact from the timing of the Easter holiday in the first quarter of 2005 versus the second quarter of 2004.
Net Sales
Sales in the United States were up 8% versus 2004 reflecting growth across most customer segments, led by the manufacturing and commercial sectors. National account sales within these customer segments were up 12% for the quarter, while sales to government accounts were up 9%.
Results for the market expansion program were as follows:
Overall, market expansion contributed 1.3 percentage points to the 9% sales growth.
*See footnote, page 8.
 
Sales in Canada increased 12% for the quarter versus 2004 due to a stronger economy and the effect of a favorable Canadian exchange rate. In local currency, daily sales for this business were up 4% due primarily to increased sales in the natural resources sector.
Sales in Mexico were up 15% for the quarter versus 2004 driven by an improving economy, expanded telesales operation, and the 2004 relocation to a larger branch in Mexico City and the 2004 opening of a new branch in Queretaro.
 Operating earnings for the 2005 first quarter were up 2% compared with the 2004 period, the result of higher sales and increased gross profits, partially offset by operating expenses, which grew faster than sales. Excluding the effects of market expansion in both periods, operating earnings grew 10%.
Operating Earnings
The gross profit margin was up 0.8pp versus the comparable 2004 quarter. Contributing to the improvement in gross profit margin was positive inflation recovery and the positive effect of product mix.
The operating expense growth was primarily driven by increased costs related to strategic initiatives and higher sales commissions and profit sharing accruals. These increases were partially offset by lower bonus accruals and lower bad debt provisions.
 Sales increased 9% for the quarter for Lab Safety, the Company's direct marketing business, primarily due to the acquisition of AW Direct, Inc. in January 2005 and increased volume in the core product lines. In 2004, Lab Safety participated in Harvest Partners, a customer loyalty program that was later discontinued.
Net Sales
 Operating earnings for the 2005 first quarter were up 15%. The improvement in operating earnings was due to improved gross profit margins, partially offset by increased operating expenses. Also contributing to the improvement was the benefit from the AW Direct, Inc. acquisition.
Operating Earnings
*See footnote, page 8.
 
* The GAAP financial statements are the source for all amounts used in the Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) calculation. ROIC is calculated using annualized operating earnings based on year-to-date operating earnings divided by a four point average for net working assets. Net working assets are working assets minus working liabilities defined as follows: working assets equal total assets less cash equivalents (non-operating cash), deferred taxes, and investments in unconsolidated entities, plus the LIFO reserve. Working liabilities are the sum of trade payables, accrued compensation and benefits, accrued contributions to employees' profit sharing plans, and accrued expenses.
Footnote:
Forward-Looking Statements
This document may contain forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements relate to the Company's expected future financial results and business plans, strategies and objectives and are not historical facts. They are generally identified by qualifiers such as "may", "estimated", "projected" or similar expressions. There are risks and uncertainties the outcome of which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from what is projected. The forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's most recent annual report, as well as the Company's Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, containing a discussion of the Company's business and of various factors that may affect it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


