FILE:GWW/GWW-8K-20060222090553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
2006 Performance Share Program
On February 21, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of W.W. Grainger, Inc. (the "Company") adopted the 2006 Performance Share Program (the "Program"). The Committee established the Program to encourage decision-making leading to improvements in shareholder value, to align management with the Company's growth objectives, and to attract and retain key executive talent. The Company's elected officers (approximately 30 individuals) will participate in the Program (the "Participants"). Awards under the Program were granted February 21, 2006 in the form of "Performance Shares" pursuant to the terms of the Company's 2005 Incentive Plan. Performance Shares will be earned, if at all, following the 2008 fiscal year, and will be settled in shares of Company common stock.
Under the Program, a Participant is entitled to receive a number of Performance Shares determined by the Company's performance against a growth target for total net sales, with the vesting of those Performance Shares being subject to the Company's achievement of a return on invested capital ("ROIC") target. More specifically, each Participant is awarded a target number of Performance Shares, but the actual number of Performance Shares which the Participant may receive can vary from the target number depending on the Company's total net sales during its 2006 fiscal year as compared to those during its 2005 fiscal year.
The vesting of the Performance Shares will depend on the Company's average ROIC during its 2006, 2007 and 2008 fiscal years. If the Company's average ROIC during that period is less than the target, then none of a Participant's Performance Shares will vest. If the average ROIC equals or exceeds the target, then 100 percent of a Participant's Performance Shares will vest (in other words, either all of a Participant's Performance Shares will vest, or none of them will vest). Under the February 21, 2006 awards, the aggregate target number of Performance Shares granted to Participants was 56,400.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
(d) On February 21, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors appointed a new director, Michael J. Roberts, after increasing the number of directors from eleven to twelve. Mr. Roberts will serve on the Company's Board Affairs and Nominating Committee and on its Compensation Committee. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Roberts and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as a director, and there are no related party transactions between Mr. Roberts and the Company. A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Roberts' appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
(a) On February 21, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors amended Article III, Section 2 of the Company's bylaws, effective upon the election of directors at the Company's 2006 annual meeting of shareholders. The amendment provides that the Company shall have a minimum of eight and a maximum of thirteen directors. Prior to the amendment, the bylaws provided for a minimum of seven and a maximum of twelve directors. A copy of Article III, Section 2 of the Company's bylaws, as amended, is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits (numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K).
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 22, 2006
W.W. GRAINGER, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
GRAINGER ADDS NEW MEMBER TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Chicago, February 22, 2006  Grainger's Board of Directors has appointed Michael J. Roberts to the board, bringing the total number of members to 12. The appointment is effective February 21, 2006.
Mr. Roberts, 55, is President and Chief Operating Officer of McDonald's Corporation, the leading global foodservice retailer. He joined the company in 1977. Mr. Roberts oversees more than 31,000 restaurants worldwide.
Mr. Roberts graduated from Loyola University in Chicago with a bachelor of arts degree in sociology. He also completed The CEO Perspective Program at the Kellogg School of Management and Corporate Leadership Center at Northwestern University. He has served as an Advisory Director to McDonald's Board of Directors and as a board member to several children's charitable organizations. Mr. Roberts is on the Board of Trustees of Providence-St. Mel, a 650-student, independently run school on Chicago's West Side. He currently serves on the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations and the Kellogg School of Management CEO Perspective Program at Northwestern University.
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. (NYSE: GWW), with
2005 sales of $5.5 billion, is the leading broad line supplier of facilities maintenance products serving businesses and institutions throughout North America. Through a highly integrated network including nearly 600 branches, 18 distribution centers and multiple Web sites, Grainger's employees help customers get the job done, saving them time and money by having the right products to keep their facilities running.
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
ARTICLE III, SECTION 2 OF THE BYLAWS OF
W.W. GRAINGER, INC., AS AMENDED
 
NUMBER, TENURE AND QUALIFICATIONS. The number of directors of the corporation shall be not less than eight nor more than thirteen. The number of directors may be fixed or changed from time to time, within the minimum and maximum, by the directors or the shareholders without amending these by-laws. Each director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders or until his successor shall have been elected and qualified. Directors need not be residents of Illinois or shareholders of the corporation.
 
 
 
 
 


