FILE:GWW/GWW-8K-20060417080538.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
Item 2.02.
  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 17, 2006 the registrant issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended
March 31, 2006. A copy is provided as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
On April 17, 2006 the registrant issued to interested parties supplemental financial information for the quarter
ended March 31, 2006. A copy is provided as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
Item 9.01.
  
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits (numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K).
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 17, 2006
 
W.W. GRAINGER, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
GRAINGER REPORTS EPS OF 93 CENTS FOR 2006 FIRST QUARTER
 
CHICAGO, April 17, 2006  Grainger (NYSE: GWW) today reported an 18 percent increase in earnings per share for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006. Earnings per share were 93 cents versus 79 cents in the 2005 quarter, setting a first quarter record for the company. Sales were $1.4 billion, up 6 percent over the prior year's first quarter. Net earnings for the quarter increased 18 percent to $86.2 million, as compared to $72.8 million in the 2005 first quarter.
 
Beginning with the 2006 first quarter, earnings reflect the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) "Share-Based Payment" for the accounting of employee stock-based compensation. The effect of the adoption will vary by quarter as options are granted. For the 2006 first quarter, the change reduced EPS by $0.03 per share. The company continues to expect the 2006 full year effect to be $0.15 per share.
 
In January, Grainger successfully implemented the U.S. phase of its SAP system. The company now has an integrated enterprise management system that helps improve customer service and provides greater operational visibility throughout the U.S. branch-based business. The new system uses an improved methodology to capture data related to certain inventory transactions and estimates. This methodology resulted in a $0.05 earnings per share improvement for the 2006 first quarter that would have been recorded in the fourth quarter of 2006 under the prior years' inventory transaction procedures.
 
Grainger's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard L. Keyser said, "I'm proud of how Grainger employees prepared for and successfully implemented our new
 
 
SAP system, although the effort slowed our sales growth more than anticipated. Our market and product line expansion programs are expected to help regain sales momentum throughout the rest of the year." Keyser reiterated the company's projected earnings per share guidance range of $4.00 to $4.15 for 2006.
 
Beginning January 1, 2006, the Company revised its segment reporting from two reportable segments to three reportable segments (Grainger Branch-based, Acklands-Grainger Branch-based, Lab Safety). Prior periods have been restated for comparability.
 
Grainger Branch-based segment
Sales in the segment, which now includes the United States, Mexico and China, increased 5 percent in the 2006 first quarter. Sales in the United States were up 5 percent as compared to the 2005 first quarter. The company's decision to wind-down its lower margin integrated supply and automotive-related contracts resulted in a 3 percentage point reduction in the segment's sales growth. Sales for the quarter were positively affected by sales in market expansion markets, timing of the Easter holiday and higher sales to manufacturing and reseller markets. Partially offsetting these were slower growth in commercial, government and transportation sectors and lower sales of seasonal products.
 
The market expansion program contributed approximately 2 percentage points to the 5 percent segment sales growth for the quarter. The company is currently enhancing its presence in the top U.S. metropolitan markets. Sales in Phase 1 of the program  Atlanta, Denver and Seattle  grew by 11 percent in the quarter versus first quarter 2005. Sales in Phase 2, covering four markets in Southern California, were up 13 percent. Sales in Phase 3  Houston, St. Louis and Tampa  were up 13 percent. Phase 1 was completed in the first quarter of 2005. As of the end of the 2006 first quarter, Phase 2 was 90 percent complete and Phase 3 was 70 percent complete. Phase 4 of the program  Baltimore, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Miami, Philadelphia and Washington D.C.  is underway but is less than 50 percent
 
 
complete. In the second quarter 2006, the company expects to open, relocate or expand more than 25 branches.
 
Sales in Mexico were up 23 percent in the quarter versus the same period in 2005 driven by an expanded telesales operation and direct marketing efforts.
 
Operating earnings for the quarter were up 21 percent in the Grainger Branch-based segment, the result of higher sales and an improved gross profit margin, partially offset by operating expenses, which grew faster than sales. The segment's gross profit margin benefited from the new SAP system, positive inflation recovery and from exiting integrated supply and automotive contracts.
 
Operating expenses grew 12 percent during the quarter. Contributing to the increase were the accounting change for stock-based compensation, higher profit sharing accruals and the costs associated with the SAP implementation.
 
Acklands-Grainger Branch-based segment
Beginning with the first quarter 2006, Grainger is reporting its Canadian branch-based business as a separate segment. Acklands-Grainger is Canada's leading broad-line distributor of industrial, automotive fleet and safety supplies, serving customers through 164 branches and five distribution centers across the country.
 
Sales for the quarter of $139 million were up 19 percent versus the 2005 first quarter, 12 percent in Canadian currency. Sales in Canada continued to benefit from increased sales to energy, mining and government customers, new branches, as well as from the timing of the Easter holiday. Operating earnings were up 18 percent for the 2006 first quarter, resulting from positive inflation recovery offset by higher payroll and benefit expenses.
 
"Breaking out the Canadian business as a separate segment illustrates the earnings power of our U.S. operations and demonstrates the opportunity to improve Acklands-Grainger." said Keyser. "We are in the process of bringing the
 
 
performance of Acklands-Grainger more in line with that of the U.S. branch-based business through improving service and productivity by implementing the common SAP platform, rationalizing the branch and supply chain network and establishing a uniform purchasing program."
 
Lab Safety Supply (LSS)
 
Sales for the quarter were up 11 percent versus the 2005 first quarter. Contributing to the growth was the acquisition of the business of Rand Materials Handling Equipment Co. in January 2006. Excluding the acquisition, sales grew 8 percent in the quarter. Operating earnings were up 12 percent for the 2006 first quarter. The improvement was due to better gross profit margins, partially offset by increased operating expenses related to the Rand acquisition and higher employee healthcare costs.
 
Cash Flow
Operating cash flow was $27 million for the quarter. The company used cash flow from operations to fund growth initiatives, pay dividends and repurchase 461,400 shares of stock during the quarter. Approximately 4.2 million shares remain under the current repurchase authorization.
 
Other
The effective income tax rate was 38.6 percent for the 2006 first quarter and 36.9 percent for the 2005 first quarter. Excluding the effect of equity in unconsolidated entities, which is recorded net of tax, the effective income tax rate was 38.9 percent for 2006 and 37.0 percent for the first quarter of 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. (NYSE: GWW), with
2005 sales of $5.5 billion, is the leading broad line supplier of facilities maintenance products serving businesses and institutions throughout North America. Through a highly integrated network including nearly 600 branches, 18 distribution centers and multiple Web sites, Grainger's employees help customers get the job done, saving them time and money by having the right products to keep their facilities running.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements relate to the company's expected future financial results and business plans, strategies and objectives and are not historical facts. They are generally identified by qualifiers such as "opportunity to improve," "effect," "expected," "expect," "guidance range," "in the process of," "percent complete," "projected," "will vary" or similar expressions. There are risks and uncertainties the outcome of which could cause the company's results to differ materially from what is projected. The forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the company's most recent annual report, as well as the company's Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities & Exchange Commission, containing a discussion of the company's business and of various factors that may affect it.
 
 
 
 
                
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (Unaudited)
 
          
 
 
 
 
 
                
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited)
Preliminary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)
Preliminary
 
 
 
Supplemental financial information concerning the quarter ended March 31, 2006 is available upon request. Requests may be submitted electronically via the Investor Relations section of Grainger's Web site:
www.grainger.com/investor
or by contacting Robb Kristopher, External Communications Manager, at 847.535.0879 or
robb.kristopher@grainger.com
. For more information about the company, including updates on strategic initiatives such as market and product line expansion and SAP, see
www.grainger.com/investor
.
 
# # #
 
 
 
 
 

W.W. GRAINGER, INC.
SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
For the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
(Unaudited)
                
                                                                                                                                                                
 
First Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
*
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004) "Share-Based Payment"
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 1 -
 
 
 
 
                  
Sales in the first quarter benefited from the economy, ongoing strategic initiatives and a favorable Canadian exchange rate. Partially contributing to the increase was the positive effect from the timing of the Easter holiday, which falls into the second quarter of 2006 versus the first quarter of 2005. Partially offsetting these improvements was the negative effect of the wind-down of lower margin integrated supply and automotive contracts, which reduced sales approximately 2 percentage points.
 
Beginning January 1, 2006, the Company revised its segment reporting from two reportable segments to three reportable segments. Prior periods have been restated for comparability.
 
 
Sales were up 6% driven by increases across all three segments. The increase in the Grainger Branch-based segment was primarily driven by strengthening manufacturing and reseller sectors, partially offset by lower sales of seasonal products. Acklands-Grainger benefited from growth in the energy, mining and government sectors as well as a favorable exchange rate. Lab Safety benefited from the acquisition of the Rand Materials Handling Equipment Co. business (Rand). For all three segments, March sales were positively affected by the timing of the Easter holiday.
 
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 2 -
 
 
 
Operating Earnings
 
The Company's operating earnings were $134 million for the first quarter of 2006 versus $113 million for the first quarter of 2005. All three segments achieved improved operating earnings. The operating earnings improvement reflected higher gross profit margins in each segment. Partially offsetting these improvements were higher segment and headquarters operating expenses driven by payroll and benefits, primarily the result of increased headcount, higher stock-based compensation expense due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R and higher profit sharing accruals.
 
The increase in ROIC was primarily attributable to higher operating earnings, partially offset by lower asset turnover.
 
Other Income and Expense
 
For the 2006 first quarter, "Other Income and Expense" was income of $6.0 million versus $2.3 million for the 2005 quarter. The increase was primarily attributable to higher interest income in 2006 versus 2005 and an improvement in the results of unconsolidated entities.
 
Income Taxes
 
The Company's effective income tax rate was 38.6% for the 2006 first quarter and 36.9% for the 2005 first quarter. Excluding the effect of equity in unconsolidated entities, which is recorded net of tax, the effective income tax rate was 38.9% for the first quarter of 2006 and 37.0% for the first quarter of 2005. The full year 2005 rate was 35.0% and benefited from a favorable revision to the estimate of income taxes for various state and local taxing jurisdictions and the resolution of certain federal and state tax contingencies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
*
See footnote, page 9.
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 3 -
 
 
 
II. BALANCE SHEET DATA
 
Selected Balance Sheet data as of March 31, 2006 (preliminary) and 2005 follow:
 
 
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 4 -
 
 
 
III.
CASH FLOW DATA
The following is a summarized cash flow statement for the three months ended
March 31, 2006 (preliminary) and 2005:
 
 
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 5 -
 
 
 
IV.
BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS
 
GRAINGER BRANCH-BASED
 
 
 
Net Sales
 Sales for this segment were up 5% for the quarter, primarily reflecting the stronger U.S. and Mexican economies and ongoing strategic initiatives. Also contributing to the increase was the positive effect from the timing of the Easter holiday, which falls in the second quarter of 2006 versus the first quarter of 2005. Partially offsetting these improvements were reduced integrated supply and automotive sales.
 
Sales in the United States were up 5% versus 2005 reflecting growth across all customer segments, led by the manufacturing and reseller sectors. Partially offsetting these improvements were slower growth in commercial, government and transportation sectors. The Company's decision to wind-down its lower margin integrated supply and automotive contracts reduced sales growth by 3 percentage points. Lower sales of seasonal products also reduced sales growth by 1 percentage point.
 
 
 
 
 
*See footnote, page 9.
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 6 -
 
 
 
GRAINGER BRANCH-BASED
(continued)
 
Market expansion contributed 2 percentage points to the 5% sales growth for the segment. Results for the market expansion program were as follows:
 
 
Sales in Mexico were up 23% for the quarter versus 2005 driven by an improving economy, an expanded telesales operation, increased direct marketing efforts and a favorable exchange rate. In local currency, sales were up 17%.
 
Operating Earnings
 Operating earnings for the 2006 first quarter were up 21% compared with the 2005 period, the result of higher sales and increased gross profits, partially offset by operating expenses, which grew faster than sales.
 
The gross profit margin was up 3.3 percentage points versus the comparable 2005 quarter driven by positive inflation recovery, a positive change in selling price category mix and changes in the timing of certain inventory-related transactions and estimates. A major driver in the improvement in selling price category mix was the reduced sales to lower margin integrated supply and automotive customers. Gross profit margins benefited from the improved methodology to capture data related to certain inventory transactions and estimates that would have been recorded in the fourth quarter of 2006, as a result of recent system enhancements.
 
The operating expense growth was primarily driven by increased costs related to spending on the SAP implementation, higher stock-based compensation expense due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R and higher profit sharing accruals. Also contributing to the expense growth were higher payroll costs driven by increased headcount.
 
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 7 -
 
 
 
ACKLANDS-GRAINGER BRANCH-BASED
 
 
Net Sales
 Sales in Canada increased 19% for the quarter versus 2005 including the effect of a favorable Canadian exchange rate. In local currency, sales for this business were up 12% due to a stronger economy, improved branch presence, higher sales to the energy, mining and government customers, as well as from the timing of the Easter holiday.
 
Operating Earnings
 Operating earnings for the 2006 first quarter were up 18% compared with the 2005 period, the result of higher sales and increased gross profits, partially offset by operating expenses, which grew faster than sales.
 
The gross profit margin was up 0.4pp versus the comparable 2005 quarter. Contributing to the improvement was positive inflation recovery, partially offset by higher freight costs.
 
The operating expense growth was primarily driven by payroll and benefits due to increased headcount and incremental expenses related to the SAP implementation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*See footnote, page 9.
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 8 -
 
 
LAB SAFETY
 
Net Sales
 Sales increased 11% for the quarter for Lab Safety, the Company's direct marketing business, including the benefit of incremental sales from the acquisition of Rand on January 31, 2006. Excluding the Rand acquisition, sales increased 8% versus 2005 driven primarily by strong sales to the manufacturing sector.
 
Operating Earnings
 Operating earnings for the 2006 first quarter were up 12%. The improvement in operating earnings was due to improved gross profit margins, partially offset by increased operating expenses. Increased operating expenses were driven by higher healthcare costs and incremental costs from the acquisition of Rand.
 
 
 
*
Footnote:
The GAAP financial statements are the source for all amounts used in the Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) calculation. ROIC is calculated using annualized operating earnings based on year-to-date operating earnings divided by a four point average for net working assets. Net working assets are working assets minus working liabilities defined as follows: working assets equal total assets less cash equivalents (non operating cash), deferred taxes, and investments in unconsolidated entities, plus the LIFO reserve. Working liabilities are the sum of trade payables, accrued compensation and benefits, accrued contributions to employees' profit sharing plans, and accrued expenses.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains forward-looking statements under the federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements relate to the Company's expected future financial results and business plans, strategies and objectives and are not historical facts. They are generally identified by qualifiers such as "percent complete", "may", "estimated", "projected" or similar expressions. There are risks and uncertainties the outcome of which could cause the Company's results to differ materially from what is projected. The forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's most recent annual report, as well as the Company's Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, containing a discussion of the Company's business and of various factors that may affect it.
 
 
-End-
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 9 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 10 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 11 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 12 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 13 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 14 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 15 -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. Supplemental Financial Information for the First Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
- 16 -
 
 
 


