FILE:GWW/GWW-8K-20060427170324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
  
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
(c) On April 27, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors elected James T. Ryan, age 47, as President of the Company effective on that date. Mr. Ryan was previously Group President of the Company, a position he had occupied since April 2004. Before assuming the Group President position, he was the Company's Executive Vice President, Marketing, Sales and Service, a position to which he was first elected in April 2002, and Executive Vice President, Marketing and Sales, a position to which he was first elected in June 2001. Since joining the Company in 1980, Mr. Ryan has served Grainger in increasingly responsible roles, including President, grainger.com and President, Grainger Parts. A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Ryan's election is attached as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.
  
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits (numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K).
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 27, 2006
 
W.W. GRAINGER, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Manager, External Communications
 
 
GRAINGER PROMOTES RYAN TO PRESIDENT
 
CHICAGO, April 27, 2006  Grainger, the leading industrial distributor in North America, today announced that James T. Ryan, 47, has become President of Grainger.
 
Ryan joined Grainger in 1980 in the company's product management area. He has held many executive positions in the company including the President of the parts business, Chief Information Officer, President of the company's Internet business, and most recently Group President for the U.S. branch-based business. He has a Bachelor of Science degree in business from Miami University of Ohio and an MBA with distinction from DePaul University in Chicago.
 
"Jim's 25 years with Grainger in a variety of facets of the business make him ideally suited to lead the business," said Grainger Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard L. Keyser. "Since he became Group President in 2004, the U.S. branch-based business has increased sales growth while improving operating earnings. He has done that by expanding our presence in major markets while improving gross profits."
 
In 1999, Ryan was awarded the Distinguished MBA Alumni Award by DePaul University and, more recently, Illinois Institute of Technology recognized him as the 2006 Outstanding Leader in Industry. Mr. Ryan also serves on the Commercial Industry Team, an advisory board for the Department of Defense. He is also a member of the Economic Club of Chicago.
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc.  Grainger Promotes Ryan to President
Page 2 of 2
 
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. (NYSE: GWW), with 2005 sales of $5.5 billion, is the leading broad line supplier of facilities maintenance products serving businesses and institutions throughout North America. Through a highly integrated network including nearly 600 branches, 18 distribution centers and multiple Web sites, Grainger's employees help customers get the job done, saving them time and money by having the right products to keep their facilities running.
 
# # #
 
 
 
 
 
 


