FILE:GWW/GWW-8K-20070207080841.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 7, 2007 the registrant issued a press release announcing a correction in an earlier news release filed on January 26, 2007. A copy of the press release is provided as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01.
  
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits (numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K).
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 7, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
GRAINGER CORRECTS EPS DUE TO INCORRECT SHARE COUNT
 
Reported Earnings Unchanged
 
CHICAGO, February 7, 2007  Grainger (NYSE:GWW) today announced it had used an incorrect number of average shares outstanding in calculating earnings per share in conjunction with its fourth quarter and year-end earnings release. Net earnings for the quarter of $99 million and year of $383 million are not affected. Earnings per share, however, were overstated by one cent for both the quarter and the year. For the quarter, the correct earnings per share are $1.13, and for the full year ending December 31, 2006, the correct earnings per share are $4.24. The growth rate of 12 percent versus 2005 EPS is unchanged. No other amounts in the release were affected other than earnings per share and average number of shares outstanding. A corrected copy of the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Unaudited) for the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2006, accompanies this release.
 
The error occurred in the year-end calculation when the number of shares outstanding was entered incorrectly. The company has revised its procedures to add additional reviews to prevent reoccurrence.
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. (NYSE: GWW), with
2006 sales of $5.9 billion, is a leading broad line supplier of facilities maintenance products serving businesses and institutions in Canada, China, Mexico and the United States. Through a highly integrated network including nearly 600 branches, 18 distribution centers and multiple Web sites, Grainger's employees help customers get the job done, saving them time and money by having the right products to keep their facilities running. Grainger is the national founding sponsor of the American Red Cross
Ready When the Time Comes
TM
corporate volunteer training program. To view information about the company, including a history of daily sales by segment and a prerecorded message regarding fourth quarter and full year 2006 results, visit
www.grainger.com/investor
.
 
Page 2 of 2 - Grainger corrects EPS due to incorrect share count
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (Unaudited)
 
*The GAAP financial statements are the source for all amounts used in the Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) calculation. ROIC is calculated using annualized operating earnings based on year-to-date operating earnings divided by a 13 point average for net working assets. Net working assets are working assets minus working liabilities defined as follows: working assets equal total assets less cash equivalents (non operating cash), deferred taxes, and investments in unconsolidated entities, plus the LIFO reserve. Working liabilities are the sum of trade payables, accrued compensation and benefits, accrued contributions to employees' profit sharing plans, and accrued expenses.
# # #
 
 


