FILE:GWW/GWW-8K-20080331161757.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
   
 
 
1
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
A copy of the Company's press release announcing (among other things) the election of Mr. Ryan to the above-mentioned position is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
A copy of the Company's press release announcing (among other things) the election of Mr. Keyser to the above-mentioned position is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
 
 
2
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 31, 2008
 
 
 
3
 
 

Grainger Announces Leadership Succession
 
James T. Ryan to become chief executive officer
 
CHICAGO, March 31, 2008  W. W. Grainger, Inc. announced today that as part of the company's planned succession process James T. Ryan, Grainger's President, will add the title and responsibilities of Chief Executive Officer effective June 1, 2008. He is succeeding Richard L. Keyser, who will remain with the company as Chairman of the Board. Both men are standing for election to the board on April 30, 2008.
 
According to Keyser, "Jim becomes the fourth chief executive officer in Grainger's 80 year history, and we are fortunate to have someone as talented and qualified as he to take the helm. Jim has deep industry experience and the energy, discipline and passion for continuing Grainger's growth and profitability into the future. We have worked closely together for the past twenty years as he has moved within the company, and during that time, Jim has developed a broad understanding of what makes Grainger so successful. I am confident he will keep Grainger's values and mission in the forefront of his decision-making process - providing great service to those customers who maintain, repair and operate facilities."
 
"Thanks to Dick's leadership and foresight, I take over as CEO of a financially strong, highly profitable and well-positioned company with lots of opportunities to continue the growth record in sales and earnings that he has established," said Ryan. "I am excited about what we do and where we can take this company. Grainger helps the men and women who maintain facilities. Their jobs are even tougher today because companies are trying to find ways to become even more competitive. At Grainger, our employees work hard to help customers save time and money by providing unmatched service. That's why we're the leader in the industry - we serve customers better than anyone else."
 
Ryan was named Chief Operating Officer and appointed to the Board of Directors in February 2007. He became President of Grainger in 2006.
Ryan has served Grainger in increasingly responsible roles in virtually every part of the company since joining the company in 1980. He graduated from Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, in 1980 with a Bachelor of Science degree in business. He also earned a master's degree in business administration with distinction from DePaul University in Chicago.
 
About Grainger
W.W. Grainger, Inc. (NYSE: GWW), with 2007 sales of $6.4 billion, is the leading broad line supplier of facilities maintenance products serving businesses and institutions in Canada, China, Mexico and the United States. Through a highly integrated network including more than 600 branches, 18 distribution centers and multiple Web sites, Grainger's employees help customers get the job done.
 
# # #
 
 
 
 

ARTICLE IV OF THE BYLAWS OF
W.W. GRAINGER, INC. AS AMENDED
 
ARTICLE IV
 
OFFICERS
 
SECTION 1. NUMBER. The officers of the corporation shall be a chairman of the board, chief executive officer, one or more presidents, a chief financial officer, one or more vice presidents, a treasurer, a secretary, and such other officers and such assistant or administrative officers as may be elected or appointed as hereinafter provided. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
 
SECTION 2. ELECTION, APPOINTMENT AND TERM OF OFFICE. Officers of the corporation shall be elected or appointed annually by the board of directors, although vacancies may be filled or new offices created and filled at any meeting of the board of directors. Each officer elected or appointed by the board of directors shall hold office until the next annual election or appointment of officers by the board of directors, or until his earlier death, resignation or removal. Officers and assistant or administrative officers of the corporation may also be appointed from time to time by the chairman of the board, to serve as such at his pleasure.
 
SECTION 3. REMOVAL. Any officer or assistant or administrative officer of the corporation elected or appointed by the board of directors may be removed by the board of directors whenever in its judgment the best interests of the corporation would be served thereby. Any officer or assistant or administrative officer of the corporation appointed by the chairman of the board may be removed by the chairman of the board whenever in his judgment the best interests of the corporation would be served thereby. Any removal provided for in this Section 3 shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed. Election or appointment of an officer or assistant or administrative officer of the corporation shall not itself create contract rights.
 
SECTION 4. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. The chairman of the board shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and the board of directors. He shall be primarily responsible for carrying out the policies established by and the directions of the board of directors and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the board of directors. He may from time to time, to the extent not delegated by the board of directors, delegate and re-delegate any part of any of the responsibilities and authority set forth herein to the senior chairman of the board, if any, to any other member of the board of directors, and/or to the chief executive officer. The chairman of the board must be a director of the corporation.
 
The chairman of the board may sign deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments which the board of directors has authorized to be executed, except in cases where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the board of directors or by these by-laws to some other officer or agent of the corporation, or shall be required by law to be otherwise signed or executed. The chairman of the board may delegate signing authority to other persons within the corporation as shall be deemed necessary.
 
1
SECTION 5. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The chief executive officer of the Corporation shall oversee and direct the operations and activities of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the board of directors or delegated to him by the chairman of the board.
 
The chief executive officer may sign deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments which the board of directors has authorized to be executed, except in cases where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the board of directors or by these by-laws to some other officer or agent of the corporation, or shall be required by law to be otherwise signed or executed. The chief executive officer may delegate signing authority to other persons within the corporation as shall be deemed necessary. The chief executive officer must be a director of the corporation.
 
SECTION 6. PRESIDENT. The president, or if there be more than one the presidents, shall oversee and direct such operations and activities and shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the board of directors, the chairman of the board or the chief executive officer. If there be more than one president, the board of directors may designate one or more of them as group presidents or use a similar descriptive designation.
 
SECTION 7. CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER. The chief financial officer shall be the principal financial officer. He shall have responsibility for administering the financial affairs of the Corporation and, in general perform all duties incident to the office of the chief financial officer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the board of directors, the chairman of the board or the chief executive officer.
 
SECTION 8. VICE PRESIDENTS. Each of the vice presidents shall be responsible for those activities and shall perform those duties as from time to time may be assigned by the board of directors, the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer or a president. The board of directors may designate one or more of the vice presidents as executive, group or senior vice presidents or use a similar descriptive designation.
 
SECTION 9. SENIOR CHAIRMAN. The senior chairman of the corporation, if any, shall consult with the chairman of the board on matters of long- and short-term strategic planning and policy and other significant matters affecting the corporation, and shall perform such other duties as may from time to time be prescribed by the board of directors, or delegated to him by the chairman of the board. The senior chairman need not be a director of the corporation.
 
SECTION 10. TREASURER. If required by the board of directors, the treasurer shall give a bond for the faithful discharge of his duties in such sum and with such surety or sureties as the board of directors shall determine. He shall (a) have charge and custody of and be responsible for all funds and securities of the corporation, (b) receive and give receipts for moneys due and payable to the corporation from any source whatsoever, and deposit all such moneys in the name of the corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as shall be selected in accordance with the provisions of Article V of these by-laws and (c) in general perform all the duties incident to the office of treasurer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the board of directors, the chairman of the board, chief executive officer, or the chief financial officer.
 
2
            SECTION 11. SECRETARY. The secretary shall (a) keep the minutes of the shareholders' and of the board of directors' meetings in one or more books provided for that purpose, (b) see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these by-laws or as required by law, (c) be custodian of the corporate records and of the seal of the corporation and see that the seal of the corporation is affixed to all certificates for shares prior to the issue thereof and to all documents, the execution of which on behalf of the corporation under its seal is duly authorized in accordance with the provisions of these by-laws, (d) keep, or cause the transfer agent to keep, a register of the post office address of each shareholder which shall be furnished to the secretary by such shareholder, (e) sign with the chairman of the board certificates for shares of the corporation, the issue of which shall have been authorized by resolution of the board of directors, (f) have general charge of the stock transfer books of the corporation and (g) in general perform all duties incident to the office of secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the board of directors, the chairman of the board or the chief executive officer.
 
SECTION 12. SALARIES. The salaries of the officers elected or appointed by the board of directors shall be fixed from time to time by the board of directors and no such officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary by reason of the fact that he is also a director of the corporation.
 
3
 
 


