FILE:GWW/GWW-8K-20081029160635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:  October 29, 2008
 
 

 
 
CHICAGO, October 29, 2008  W. W. Grainger, Inc. (NYSE: GWW), the leading industrial distributor in North America, announced today that Michael A. Pulick, Senior Vice President for Customer Service, was promoted to Senior Vice President and President, Grainger Industrial Supply, effective November 1, 2008. Pulick, 44, is replacing Y. C. Chen, 61, who will stay on in a special advisory role with the company. At the same time, D.G. Macpherson, 41, will be taking on additional responsibility as the head of a new function.
Y.C. Chen will retire as president, Grainger Industrial Supply, on November 1, 2008, but will stay on with the company providing guidance internationally. Y.C. has served Grainger in many important positions and has been instrumental in establishing the companys global sourcing business, improving the supply chain network, and helping to develop the strategic direction of the companys operations in Canada and Mexico before leading Grainger Industrial Supply. He leaves behind a business with a strong foundation for growth, said Grainger President and Chief Executive Officer James T. Ryan. We are pleased to be able to continue to have his counsel.
Pulick joined Grainger in 1999 from General Electric. He has served as Director of Supplier Management for Graingers Custom Solutions business and Product Category Director for Tools, Metalworking and Custom Products. He was named Vice President, Product Management, in 2004 and promoted to his current position in 2006. He holds a bachelors degree in electrical engineering from Michigan Technological University and a masters degree in business administration from the University of Chicago. He serves as an adjunct professor at the Lake Forest Graduate School of Management and is on the board of directors for Junior Achievement of Chicago.
Mike has a broad background in supply chain and customer service and a strong track record of success in our business, said Ryan. He was responsible for starting our product line expansion program in 2006 and has done an outstanding job leading our branch and customer service organization to new standards of customer satisfaction. 
 
Grainger will also establish a global supply chain function under Senior Vice President D.G. Macpherson, effective immediately. This new function will provide global planning, coordination and specialized expertise to the supply chain organizations in all of Graingers business units. The initial focus will be on global supply chain architecture, procurement and supply chain talent management. Reporting to Macpherson in his new role will be Joseph J. Stachowicz, President, Grainger Global Sourcing.
 
 
 
Macpherson joined Grainger earlier this year after 12 years with Boston Consulting Group where he was a partner and managing director. He holds a bachelors degree in engineering from Stanford University and a masters degree in business administration from Northwestern Universitys Kellogg School of Management. Ryan added, D.G. has a broad background in production systems and continuous improvement. His contribution has already been felt in the United States, and as we continue to build out our supply chain internationally, having all of the distribution and sourcing operations working together will give us broader perspective and allow us to leverage our scale advantages. Macpherson will continue to lead the supply chain organization for Grainger Industrial Supply under Pulick, but in this new function he will report directly to Graingers President and Chief Executive Officer.
W.W. Grainger, Inc. with 2007 sales of $6.4 billion is the leading broad line supplier of facilities maintenance products serving businesses and institutions in the United States, Canada, Mexico, China and Panama. Through a highly integrated network including more than 600 branches, 18 distribution centers and multiple Web sites, Grainger's employees help customers get the job done.


