FILE:GWW/GWW-8K-20090414081238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 14, 2009 the registrant issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.  A copy is provided as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)  Exhibits (numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K).
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:  April 14, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Highlights
Visit www.grainger.com/investor to access a Podcast describing Graingers performance in more detail.
 
 
CHICAGO, April 14, 2009  Grainger (NYSE: GWW) today reported first quarter sales of $1.5 billion, which were down 12 percent versus first quarter 2008.  There was one less selling day in the quarter; on a daily basis sales were down 10 percent.  Net earnings for the quarter decreased 16 percent to $96 million versus $114 million in 2008.  Earnings per share declined by 11 percent to $1.25 versus $1.41 for first quarter 2008.  The company adopted FSP 03-6-1 during the quarter resulting in a two cent reduction to first quarter EPS for 2008 and one cent reduction for first quarter 2009.  (See page K-41 of the companys 2008 10-K for additional information).
 
Businesses and institutions have responded to the recession by buying less and looking for ways to improve productivity. We are in a great position to help our customers become more efficient by consolidating their supplier base using our expanded product line especially in these challenging times, said Graingers President and Chief Executive Officer Jim Ryan. We are keeping service levels high
as other competitors are pulling back, as we have the ability to selectively invest in the business in order to gain more market share.
 
Ryan added, We do not believe that weve seen the bottom to the sales decline and expect increased pricing pressure throughout the remainder of the year. Given our financial strength, we see an opportunity to gain more share.  We expect to incur some reductions to our margins by expanding our sales force and implementing additional customer incentives in the second quarter.  We expect these actions to cost $25-50 million this year.  Well calibrate our level of investment in the back half of the year based on our success.
 
 
The GAAP financial statements are the source for all amounts used in the Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) calculation.  ROIC is calculated using annualized operating earnings based on year-to-date operating earnings divided by a 4 point average for net working assets.  Net working assets are working assets minus working liabilities defined as follows:  working assets equal total assets less cash equivalents (non operating cash), deferred taxes, and investments in unconsolidated entities, plus the LIFO reserve.  Working liabilities are the sum of trade payables, accrued compensation and benefits, accrued contributions to employees profit sharing plans, and accrued expenses.
*
 
1
 
Daily sales for the company decreased 9 percent in January, 10 percent in February and 12 percent in March. For the quarter, sales were negatively affected by foreign exchange, which contributed approximately 2 percentage points to the decline. Price contributed a positive 6 percent while volume was down 14 percent. There were 63 selling days in the quarter, one less than in 2008 first quarter.
 
Effective with the first quarter, the company has two reportable business segments, the United States and Canada, which represent approximately 99 percent of company sales. This new reporting reflects the integration of Lab Safety Supply with Graingers U.S. branch-based business.  The remaining operating units (Mexico, China, Panama and Puerto Rico) are included in other businesses and are not considered a segment. For a restatement of prior year results by segment, see page 8.
 
As part of cost reduction plans announced in February, the company reduced headcount by 200 employees and incurred severance expense of $5 million or 3 cents per share in the first quarter.  The company is on track to meet headcount reductions of 300-400 this year.
 
United States
Sales for the United States segment decreased 10 percent in the 2009 first quarter.  Daily sales declined by 9 percent in January, 9 percent in February and 10 percent in March.  There was no material effect from the sale of seasonal products.  Progress integrating the Lab Safety Supply and the U.S. branch-based business included adding 27,000 Lab products to grainger.com and executing on purchasing synergies.  Grainger is on track to achieve the incremental sales and cost reductions from the integration.
 
Daily sales by customer segment in the U.S. decreased 10 percent, with declines in all customer end markets except government, which was flat.  Heavy manufacturing declined approximately 25 percent, with most other segments declining in the low teens.
 
The company increased the number of products in the February 2009 Grainger catalog by a net of 50,000 items to 233,000, including metalworking products and selected additions to existing product lines.  The company expects to add more products throughout the year including the Lab Safety products currently available on grainger.com.  Product line expansion contributed $195 million in sales for the first quarter versus $137 million in the first quarter 2008.
 
Operating earnings for the quarter were down 11 percent in the United States.  The operating earnings decrease was the result of lower sales, partially offset by positive price leverage and reduced spending on payroll and discretionary spending. Payroll-related expenses were down due to reduced commissions, profit sharing and bonus accruals, and lower headcount.
 
2
 
 
Canada
the Acklands-Grainger business in the quarter were down 19 percent versus the 2008 first quarter. In local currency, sales were flat. On a daily basis for t
Sales for
he quarter, sales were down 18 percent but up 2 percent in local currency. On a daily basis by month, sales in local currency were up 7 percent in January, up 1 percent in February and down 2 percent in March. The Canadian economy continues to slow especially in the forestry, manufacturing, transportation and mining industries.  Sales growth has slowed though remained positive to prior year in most provinces for the quarter, particularly among government and oil and gas customers.  Operating earnings decreased 49 percent for the 2009 first quarter (37 percent in local currency), primarily due to the sales decline coupled with a 140 basis point decline in gross margin.  The decline in gross profit margin was primarily due to higher costs of goods sold due to unfavorable foreign exchange, price competition and an increase in lower margin large customer and government sales.
 
Other businesses
Sales for the other businesses, which include Mexico, China, Puerto Rico and Panama, were down 8 percent versus prior year and down 7 percent on a daily basis.  Daily sales in Mexico were down 23 percent in the quarter versus the same period in 2008.  In local currency, daily sales in Mexico increased 3 percent for the quarter and were down 4 percent in January, flat in February and up 12 percent in March. The growth in March is primarily due to the timing benefit from the extended Easter holiday occurring in March 2008 versus April 2009.  In China, sales increased 89 percent versus a year ago.  Operating losses for other businesses were $3 million for the quarter compared to $4 million a year ago primarily due to the operations in China.
 
Other
There was no gain or loss on the sale of fixed assets for the quarter compared to a gain of $1.3 million last year. Interest income was down and interest expense was up for the quarter for a net expense increase of approximately $1 million. The effective income tax rate was 39.2 and 38.7 percent in the 2009 and 2008 first quarters, respectively.  The increase in the effective rate is due to lower earnings reported in foreign jurisdictions with lower tax rates, as well as current estimates of the overall U.S. state income tax rate.
 
Cash flow
Operating cash flow was $42 million for the 2009 first quarter versus $13 million in the first quarter of 2008.  The first quarter included the annual contribution to the profit sharing trust (the companys retirement plan) and the payout of the previous years bonuses. Capital expenditures were $28 million in the first quarter compared to $36 million in the quarter a year ago.  In the quarter, Grainger paid $128 million to repurchase 1.9 million shares of stock.  Dividends paid in the first quarter were approximately $31 million.
 
3
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. with 2008 sales of $6.9 billion is the leading broad line supplier of facilities maintenance products serving businesses and institutions in United States, Canada, Mexico and China. Through a highly integrated network including more than 600 branches, 18 distribution centers and multiple Web sites, Grainger's employees help customers get the job done. Visit www.grainger.com/investor to view information about the company, including a history of daily sales by segment and a Podcast regarding first quarter 2009 results.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains forward-looking statements under the federal securities law.  The forward-looking statements relate to the companys expected future financial results and business plans, strategies and objectives are not historical facts.  They are generally identified by qualifiers such as ability to selectively
invest, calibrate our level of investment, do not believe,  expanding,  expect,  expects, gain more market share, implementing, opportunity to gain, on track, position to help or similar expressions. There are risks and uncertainties the outcome of which could cause the companys results to differ materially from what is projected.  The forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the companys most recent annual report, as well as the companys Form 10-K and other reports filed with the Securities & Exchange Commission, containing a discussion of the companys business and various factors that may affect it.
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
###
 
8


