FILE:GWW/GWW-8K-20100414081224.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 14, 2010 the registrant issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.  A copy is provided as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)  Exhibits (numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K).
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:  April 14, 2010
 
 
 
 
 

Quarterly Highlights
CHICAGO, April 14, 2010  Grainger (NYSE: GWW) today reported first quarter sales of $1.7 billion, which were up 14 percent versus first quarter 2009.  Both quarters had the same number of selling days (63).  Net earnings for the quarter increased 3 percent to $99 million versus $96 million in 2009.  Earnings per share increased 5 percent to $1.31 versus $1.25 for the first quarter 2009.
We are off to a great start with 14 percent sales growth in the quarter, said Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Jim Ryan.  According to Ryan, Strong operating performance from the U.S. business was the story for the quarter.  The companys solid execution, strong sales growth from all the businesses, particularly in March, combined
 
 
*The GAAP financial statements are the source for all amounts used in the Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) calculation.  ROIC is calculated using annualized operating earnings based on year-to-date operating earnings divided by a 4 point average for net assets less cash equivalents (non operating cash), deferred taxes, and investments in unconsolidated entities, plus the LIFO reserve.  Working liabilities are the sum of trade payables, accrued compensation and benefits, accrued contributions to employees profit sharing plans, and accrued expenses.
 
1
 
with continued signs of strengthening in the U.S., Canadian and Mexican economies give us confidence to raise our 2010 sales growth guidance to a range of 9 to 12 percent and our earnings per share guidance to a range of $5.70 to $6.10, which does not include the two unusual items.  In January, the company issued guidance of 6 to 10 percent sales growth with earnings per share of $5.40 to $5.90.
Despite some economic uncertainty expected in the second half of the year, we expect to deliver strong results for the remainder of 2010.  We plan to increase our market leadership position by providing our customers the broadest product offering and world-class customer service to help them operate their facilities more efficiently, said Ryan.
Two unusual non-cash items, a benefit from changes to the companys paid time off policy and a tax expense related to the tax treatment of retiree healthcare benefits following the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, resulted in a net negative impact of $0.07 per share in the quarter.
 
Grainger recorded a one-time, non-cash charge of $11 million, or 15 cents per share, in the quarter, to write down a deferred income tax asset following the passage of the health care legislation.  Also in the quarter, there was 8 cents per share benefit from a policy change reducing the companys paid time off liability.  In January 2010, the companys preliminary estimate for the full-year impact of this change was approximately 25 cents per share.  The company now expects 8 to 9 cents per share of benefit in each of the remaining quarters in 2010 for a total impact of $0.34 to $0.35 per share.  This benefit will not repeat in 2011.
 
Daily sales for the company increased 12 percent in January, 12 percent in February and 18 percent in March.  For the quarter, sales were positively affected by foreign exchange, which contributed 3 percentage points to the increase.  Acquisitions contributed 5 percent in the quarter.  Pricing was flat while volume was up 6 percent.
 
2
 
The company has two reportable business segments, the United States and Canada, which represent approximately 95 percent of company sales.  The remaining operating
units (Japan, Mexico, India, Puerto Rico, China and Panama) are included in other businesses and are not considered a reportable segment.
United States
Sales for the United States segment increased 8 percent in the 2010 first quarter.  Daily sales increased 6 percent in January, 6 percent in February and 10 percent in March.  There was no effect in the quarter from the sale of seasonal products.  All customer end markets were up except contractor.
Also contributing to segment performance in the quarter was the benefit of the integration of Lab Safety Supply and Grainger Industrial Supply.  From the beginning of 2009 through the end of the 2010 first quarter, this integration has generated $65 million of additional revenue and $31 million of cost savings.  The company expects to deliver $70-$100 million in incremental revenue by mid year and has already exceeded the $20-$30 million cost savings target.
The U.S. business closed nine branches in the quarter.  That brings the total to 20 including the 11 in the fourth quarter of 2009.  The company expects these actions to contribute $4-$10 million benefit in 2010, excluding one-time closing costs.  The company will continue to examine ways to improve its cost structure and address underperforming assets.
Operating earnings for the quarter were up 16 percent in the United States, up 11 percent excluding the paid time off policy change.  The operating earnings increase was the result of higher sales and operating expenses increasing at a slower rate than sales.  Gross profit margins for the quarter were up 10 basis points.  Higher sales to large customers with greater volume discounts negatively affected gross profit, something the company expects to continue.  Payroll-related expenses were up due to higher commissions, profit sharing and bonus accruals.
 
3
 
Canada
Sales for the Acklands-Grainger business in the quarter were up 35 percent in U.S. dollars versus the 2009 first quarter.  In local currency, sales were up 13 percent for the quarter and on a daily basis were up 4 percent in January, up 13 percent in February and up 20 percent in March.
Sales in Canada benefited from a growing Canadian economy with particular strength in the oil and gas, agriculture and mining, utilities and forestry sectors, partially offset by weaker sales to the government.  Operating earnings increased 6 percent for the 2010 first quarter but were down 12 percent in local currency.  The decrease in operating earnings is due to a 50 basis point decline in gross margin as sales to large customers, which typically have lower margins, were particularly strong in the quarter.  In addition, operating expenses increased faster than sales driven by increased commissions and Acklands-Graingers sponsorship of the Winter Olympic Games in Vancouver.
Other Businesses
Sales for the other businesses, which include Japan, Mexico, India, Puerto Rico, China and Panama, were up 259 percent versus prior year, due primarily to the new consolidation of sales for Japan and India, along with strong growth in Mexico and China.
Operating earnings for other businesses were breakeven for the first quarter 2010 compared to a $3 million loss a year ago.  In addition to the earnings contribution from Japan, the Mexican business returned to profitability and the Chinese business reduced its loss.
Other
Interest income net of interest expense was flat for the quarter.  The effective tax rate was 45.1 and 39.2 percent in the 2010 and 2009 first quarters, respectively.  Excluding the one-time impact from the health care legislation, the effective tax rate was 39.3 percent.
 
4
 
Cash Flow
Operating cash flow was $113 million for the 2010 first quarter versus $43 million in the first quarter of 2009.  The first quarter included the annual contribution to the profit sharing trust (the companys retirement plan).  Additionally, U.S. managers did not receive an incentive compensation payment (bonus), which traditionally is paid out in the first quarter.  Capital expenditures were $14 million in the first quarter compared to $28 million in the quarter a year ago.  Dividends paid in the first quarter were approximately $34 million.
 
 
W.W. Grainger, Inc. with 2009 sales of $6.2 billion is North Americas leading broad line supplier of maintenance, repair and operating products with an expanding presence in Asia and Latin America.
 
 
Visit www.grainger.com/investor to access a podcast describing Graingers performance in more detail.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains forward-looking statements under the federal securities law.  Forward-looking statements relate to the companys expected future financial results and business plans, strategies and objectives and are not historical facts.  They are generally identified by qualifiers such as continued signs of strengthening economies,  earnings per share guidance, estimate, expect, expected, expects, plan, sales growth guidance, range, will, or similar expressions. There are risks and uncertainties, the outcome of which could cause the companys results to differ materially from what is projected.  The forward-looking statements should be read in conjunc tion with the companys most recent annual report, as well as the companys Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other reports filed with the Securities & Exchange Commission, containing a discussion of the companys business and various factors that may affect it.
 
 
5
 
 
 
6
 
 
7
 
 
8
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)


