FILE:BXP/BXP-8K-20050125184951.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K is furnished under Item 2.02 - "Results of Operations and Financial Condition." Such information, including the exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
On January 25, 2005, Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year of 2004. That press release referred to certain supplemental information that is available on the Company's website. The text of the supplemental information and the press release are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and are incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
This supplemental package contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by our use of the words "guidance," "expects," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "believes" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond Boston Properties' control and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. These factors include, without limitation, the ability to enter into new leases or renew leases on favorable terms, dependence on tenants' financial condition, the uncertainties of real estate development and acquisition activity, the ability to effectively integrate acquisitions, the costs and availability of financing, the effects of local economic and market conditions, the impact of newly adopted accounting principles on the Company's accounting policies and on period-to-period comparisons of financial results, regulatory changes and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Boston Properties does not undertake a duty to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company"), a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (REIT), is one of the largest owners, managers, and developers of first-class office properties in the United States, with a significant presence in four core markets: Boston, Washington, D.C., Midtown Manhattan and San Francisco. The Company was founded in 1970 by Mortimer B. Zuckerman and Edward H. Linde in Boston, where it maintains its headquarters. Boston Properties became a public company in June 1997. The Company acquires, develops, and manages its properties through full-service regional offices in Boston, New York City, Washington, D.C., San Francisco, and Princeton, New Jersey. Its property portfolio is comprised primarily of first-class office space and also includes three hotels and one industrial building. Boston Properties is well-known for its in-house building management expertise and responsiveness to tenants' needs. The Company holds a superior track record in developing premium Central Business District (CBD) office buildings, suburban office centers and build-to-suit projects for the U.S. Government and a diverse array of high-credit tenants.
 
 
Boston Properties' management team is among the most distinguished in the REIT industry. This deep and talented team of thirty individuals average twenty-four years of real estate experience and sixteen years with Boston Properties. Chairman Mortimer Zuckerman is nationally-known, serving as Chairman and Editor-in-Chief of U.S. News and World Report and Chairman and Publisher of the New York Daily News. He holds an undergraduate degree from McGill University, a law degree from Harvard University and an MBA from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. President and CEO, Edward Linde, serves on a number of corporate and philanthropic boards, including the Boston Symphony Orchestra, National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) and The Real Estate Roundtable. He holds a B.S. Civil Engineering degree from MIT and an MBA with high distinction as a Baker Scholar from Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. Boston Properties' Board of Directors consists of ten distinquished members, the majority of which serve as Independant Directors.
 
 
Boston Properties' primary business objective is to maximize return on investment in an effort to provide its stockholders with the greatest possible total return. To achieve this objective, the Company maintains a consistent strategy, which includes: Concentrating on a few carefully selected markets - characterized by high barriers to the creation of new supply and strong real estate fundamentals - where tenants have demonstrated a preference for high-quality office buildings and other facilities; selectively acquiring assets which increase its penetration in these select markets; taking on complex, technically-challenging projects that leverage the skills of its management team to successfully develop, acquire, and reposition properties; exploring joint-venture opportunities primarily with existing owners of land parcels who seek to benefit from the Company's depth of development and management expertise; pursuing the sale of properties (on a selective basis) to take advantage of its value creation and the demand for its premier properties; and continuing to enhance the Company's balanced capital structure through its access to a variety of capital sources.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common Stock Data (NYSE: BXP)
 
Boston Properties' common stock has the following characteristics (based on information reported by the New York Stock Exchange):
 
 
Timing
 
Quarterly results for 2005 will be announced according to the following schedule:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This section includes non-GAAP financial measures, which are accompanied by what we consider the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Quantitative reconciliations of the differences between the non-GAAP financial measures presented and the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are shown on pages 9 and 10. A description of the non-GAAP financial measures we present and a statement of the reasons why management believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors about the Company's financial condition and results of operations can be found on page 54.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." The Company's application of SFAS No. 144 results in the presentation of the net operating results of these qualifying properties sold or held for sale during 2004 and 2003 as income from discontinued operations for all periods presented. The following table summarizes income from discontinued operations (net of minority interest) for the three months ended December 31, 2004, September 30, 2004, June 30, 2004, March 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the fourth quarter of 2002 the Company's operating partnership (Boston Properties Limited Partnership) received investment grade ratings on its senior unsecured debt securities and thereafter issued unsecured notes. The notes were issued under an indenture, dated as of December 13, 2002, by and between Boston Properties Limited Partnership and The Bank of New York, as trustee, as supplemented, which, among other things, requires us to comply with the following limitations on incurrence of debt: Limitation on Outstanding Debt; Limitation on Secured Debt; Ratio of Annualized Consolidated EBITDA to Annualized Interest Expense; and Maintenance of Unencumbered Assets. Compliance with these restrictive covenants requires us to apply specialized terms the meanings of which are described in detail in our filings with the SEC, and to calculate ratios in the manner prescribed by the indenture.
 
This section presents such ratios as of December 31, 2004 to show that the Company's operating partnership was in compliance with the terms of the indenture, as amended, which has been filed with the SEC. This section also presents certain other indenture-related data which we believe assists investors in the Company's unsecured debt securities. Management is not presenting these ratios and the related calculations for any other purpose or for any other period, and is not intending for these measures to otherwise provide information to investors about the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Investors should not rely on these measures other than for purposes of testing our compliance with the indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 25, 2004, the Company formed Boston Properties Office Value-Added Fund, L.P. (the "Value-Added Fund"), a strategic partnership with third parties, to pursue the acquisition of value-added investments in non-core office assets within the Company's existing markets. The Company intends to leverage its regional operating platform to source and acquire properties that will generate opportunity for value creation through repositioning, capital improvements and/or leasing strategies. The Value-Added Fund has total equity commitments of $140 million. Assuming an estimated 65% leverage ratio, the Value-Added Fund is anticipated to have up to $400 million of total investments. The Company will receive asset management, property management, leasing and redevelopment fees and, if certain return thresholds are achieved, will be entitled to an additional promoted interest.
 
The Company's interest in the Value-Added Fund is 25%. Properties held by the Value-Added Fund are not included in the Company's portfolio information tables or any other portfolio level statistics.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This section contains an explanation of certain non-GAAP financial measures we provide in other sections of this document, as well as the reasons why management believes these measures provide useful information to investors about the company's financial condition or results of operations. Additional detail can be found in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and other documents filed with the SEC from time to time.
 
Funds from Operations
 
Pursuant to the revised definition of Funds from Operations adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), we calculate Funds from Operations, or "FFO," by adjusting net income (loss) (computed in accordance with GAAP, including non-recurring items) for gains (or losses) from sales of properties, real estate related depreciation and amortization, and after adjustment for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure. The use of FFO, combined with the required primary GAAP presentations, has been fundamentally beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of REITs among the investing public and making comparisons of REIT operating results more meaningful. Management generally considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing our comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains and losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and excluding real estate asset depreciation and amortization (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. Our computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs or real estate companies that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently.
 
Management uses FFO principally to evaluate the operating performance of our assets from period to period, and therefore it is important that transactions which impact operations over multiple periods be reflected in FFO in accordance with their substance, even if GAAP requires that the income or loss attributable to the transaction be recorded in a particular period. The resulting adjustments to FFO computed in accordance with the NAREIT definition are particularly meaningful when the events in question are substantively equivalent to other similar transactions, but the reporting of those similar transactions under GAAP more closely matches their economic substance.
 
FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP and is not a measure of liquidity or an indicator of our ability to make cash distributions. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO should be compared with our reported net income and considered in addition to cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements.
 
Funds Available for Distribution (FAD)
 
In addition to FFO, we present Funds Available for Distribution (FAD) by (1) adding to FFO non-real estate depreciation, (2) eliminating the effect of straight-line rent, and (3) subtracting: recurring capital expenditures; hotel improvements, equipment upgrades and replacements; and second generation tenant improvement and leasing commissions. In addition, this calculation includes all non-cash compensation expense related to restricted securities. Although our FAD as adjusted differs from that of other real estate companies, we believe it provides a meaningful indicator of our ability to fund cash needs and to make cash distributions to equity owners. In addition, we believe that to further understand our liquidity, FAD should be compared with our cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements. Our computation of FAD may not be comparable to FAD reported by other REITs or real estate companies and FAD does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance, as an alternative to net cash flows from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP), or as a measure of our liquidity.
 
Debt to Total Market Capitalization Ratio
 
Debt to total market capitalization ratio, defined as total consolidated debt as a percentage of the market value of our outstanding equity securities plus our total consolidated debt, is a measure of leverage commonly used by analysts in the REIT sector. Total market capitalization is the sum of our total indebtedness outstanding on a consolidated basis (excluding unconsolidated joint venture debt) and the market value of our outstanding equity securities calculated using the closing price per share of common stock of the Company multiplied by the sum of (1) the actual aggregate number of outstanding common partnership units of our operating partnership (including common partnership units held by the company) and (2) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of preferred partnership units of our operating partnership. We are presenting this ratio because our degree of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. Investors should understand that our debt to total market capitalization ratio is in part a function of the market price of the common stock of Boston Properties, Inc., and as such will fluctuate with changes in such price and does not necessarily reflect our capacity to incur additional debt to finance our activities or our ability to manage our existing debt obligations. However, for a company like ours, whose assets are primarily income-producing real estate, the debt to total market capitalization ratio may provide investors with an alternate indication of leverage, so long as it is evaluated along with the ratio of indebtedness to other measures of asset value used by financial analysts and other financial ratios, as well as the various components of our outstanding indebtedness.
 
Net Operating Income (NOI)
 
NOI is a non-GAAP financial measure equal to net income, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, plus corporate general and administrative expense, depreciation and amortization, interest expense, minority interest in Operating Partnership and losses from early extinguishment of debt, less interest income, development and management income, gains from property dispositions, gains on sale from discontinued operations, income from discontinued operations, income from unconsolidated joint ventures and minority interest in property partnerships. In some cases we also present NOI on a cash basis, which is NOI after eliminating the effects of straight-lining of rent. We use NOI internally as a performance measure and believe NOI provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations because it reflects only those income and expense items that are incurred at the property level. Therefore, we believe NOI is a useful measure for evaluating the operating performance of our real estate assets. Our management also uses NOI to evaluate regional property level performance and to make decisions about resource allocations. Further, we believe NOI is useful to investors as a performance measure because, when compared across periods, NOI reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs and acquisition and development activity on an unleveraged basis, providing perspective not immediately apparent from net income. NOI excludes certain components from net income in order to provide results that are more closely related to a property's results of operations. For example, interest expense is not necessarily linked to the operating performance of a real estate asset and is often incurred at the corporate level as opposed to the property level. In addition, depreciation and amortization, because of historical cost accounting and useful life estimates, may distort operating performance at the property level. NOI presented by us may not be comparable to NOI reported by other REITs that define NOI differently. We believe that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of our operating results, NOI should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in our consolidated financial statements. NOI should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance or to cash flows as a measure of liquidity or ability to make distributions.
 
In-Service Properties
 
We treat a property as being "in-service" upon the earlier of (i) lease-up and completion of tenant improvements or (ii) one year after cessation of major construction activity under GAAP. When a property is treated as "in-service", we cease capitalization of all project costs. The determination as to when a property should be treated as "in-service" involves a degree of judgment and is made by management based on the relevant facts and circumstances of the particular property. For portfolio operating and occupancy statistics we specify a single date for treating a property as "in-service." Under GAAP a property may be placed in service in stages as construction is completed and the property is held available for occupancy. In accordance with GAAP, when a portion of a property has been substantially completed and occupied or held available for occupancy, we cease capitalization on that portion, though we may not treat the property as being "in-service," and continue to capitalize only those costs associated with the portion still under construction.
 
Same Properties
 
In our analysis of NOI, particularly to make comparisons of NOI between periods meaningful, it is important to provide information for properties that were in-service and owned by us throughout each period presented. We refer to properties acquired or placed in-service prior to the beginning of the earliest period presented and owned by us through the end of the latest period presented as "same properties." "Same properties" therefore exclude properties placed in service or acquired after the beginning of the earliest period presented or disposed of prior to the end of the latest period presented. Accordingly, it takes at least one year and one quarter after a property is acquired or treated as "in-service" for that property to be included in "same properties." See pages 20-23 for "in-service properties" which are not included in "same properties."
 
If you would like to receive this document in a different electronic format, please call investor relations at 617-236-3322.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
, a real estate investment trust, reported results today for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2004.
BOSTON, MA, January 25, 2005
 Boston Properties, Inc. (NYSE: BXP)
 
Results for the quarter ended December 31, 2004
 
Funds from Operations (FFO) for the quarter ended December 31, 2004 were $118.9 million, or $1.09 per share basic and $1.05 per share diluted. This compares to FFO for the quarter ended December 31, 2003 of $106.9 million, or $1.09 per share basic and $1.05 per share diluted. The weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding totaled 109,358,601 and 117,268,572, respectively, for the quarter ended December 31, 2004 and 97,944,897 and 107,187,540, respectively, for the same quarter last year.
 
Net income available to common shareholders was $62.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2004, compared to $60.6 million for the same quarter last year. Net income available to common shareholders per share (EPS) for the quarter ended December 31, 2004 was $0.57 basic and $0.56 on a diluted basis. This compares to EPS for the fourth quarter of 2003 of $0.62 basic and $0.61 on a diluted basis.
 
Results for the year ended December 31, 2004
 
Funds from Operations (FFO) for the year ended December 31, 2004 were $459.5 million, or $4.32 per share basic and $4.16 per share diluted. This compares to FFO for the year ended December 31, 2003 of $412.1 million, or $4.25 per share basic and $4.09 per share diluted before the application of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended. The weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding totaled 106,458,214 and 114,815,522, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 96,899,873 and 106,861,317, respectively, for last year.
 
Net income available to common shareholders was $284.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to $365.3 million for last year. Net income available to common shareholders per share (EPS) for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $2.67 basic and $2.61 on a diluted basis. This compares to EPS for the year ended December 31, 2003 of $3.71 basic and $3.65 on a diluted basis. Diluted EPS includes $0.34 and $1.39 related to gains on sales of real estate and discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
The reported results are unaudited and there can be no assurance that the results will not vary from the final information for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2004. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of these reported results have been made.
 
As of December 31, 2004, the Company's portfolio consisted of 125 properties comprising approximately 44.1 million square feet, including three properties under construction and one expansion project totaling 1.3 million square feet. The overall percentage of leased space for the 119 properties in service as of December 31, 2004 was 92.1%.
 
Significant events of the fourth quarter include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EPS and FFO per Share Guidance:
 
The Company's guidance for the first quarter of 2005 and the full year 2005 for EPS (diluted) and FFO per share (diluted) is set forth and reconciled below. The reconciliation of projected EPS to projected FFO per share, as provided below, is consistent with the Company's historical computations.
 
 
The foregoing estimates reflect management's view of current and future market conditions, including assumptions with respect to rental rates, occupancy levels and earnings impact of the events referenced in this release. EPS estimates may be subject to fluctuations as a result of several factors, including changes in the recognition of depreciation and amortization expense and any gains or losses associated with disposition activity. The Company is not able to assess at this time the potential impact of these factors on projected EPS. By definition, FFO does not include real estate-related depreciation and amortization or gains or losses associated with disposition activities. There can be no assurance that the Company's actual results will not differ materially from the estimates set forth above.
 
Boston Properties will host a conference call tomorrow, January 26, 2005 at 10:00 AM (Eastern Time), open to the general public, to discuss the fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2004 results, the 2005 projections, and other related matters. The number to call for this interactive teleconference is (800) 240-2430. A replay of the conference call will be available through February 2, 2005 by dialing (800) 405-2236 and entering the passcode 11020358. An audio-webcast will also be archived and may be accessed at in the Investors section under the heading .
www.bostonproperties.com
Audio Archive
 
Additionally, a copy of Boston Properties' fourth quarter 2004 "Supplemental Operating and Financial Data" and this press release are available in the Investors section of the Company's website at . These materials are also available by contacting Investor Relations at (617) 236-3322 or by written request to:
www.bostonproperties.com
 
Investor Relations
Boston Properties, Inc.
111 Huntington Avenue, Suite 300
Boston, MA 02199-7610
 
Boston Properties is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust that develops, redevelops, acquires, manages, operates and owns a diverse portfolio of Class A office properties and also includes three hotels and one industrial property. The Company is one of the largest owners and developers of Class A office properties in the United States, concentrated in four core markets  Boston, Midtown Manhattan, Washington, D.C. and San Francisco.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by our use of the words "guidance," "expects," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "believes" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond Boston Properties' control and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. These factors include, without limitation, the ability to enter into new leases or renew leases on favorable terms, dependence on tenants' financial condition, the uncertainties of real estate development and acquisition activity, the ability to effectively integrate acquisitions, the costs and availability of financing, the effects of local economic and market conditions, the impact of newly adopted accounting principles on the Company's accounting policies and on period-to-period comparisons of financial results, regulatory changes and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Boston Properties does not undertake a duty to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, including its guidance for the first quarter and full fiscal year 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to presenting FFO in accordance with the NAREIT definition, we also disclose FFO after specific and defined supplemental adjustments, including gains or losses on derivative instruments, consisting of changes in fair value and periodic cash settlements, that do not qualify for hedge accounting pursuant to the provisions of SFAS No. 133 ("non-qualifying derivative contracts"). As the impact of the non-qualifying derivative contracts did not extend beyond the quarter ended September 30, 2003, FFO as adjusted for periods ended on and after December 31, 2003 is the same as FFO computed in accordance with the NAREIT definition.
 
The adjustments for non-qualifying derivative contracts resulted from interest rate contracts we entered into prior to the effective date of SFAS No. 133 to limit our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates with respect to variable rate debt associated with real estate projects under development. Upon transition to SFAS No. 133 on January 1, 2001, the impacts of these contracts were recorded in current earnings, while prior to that time they were capitalized. Although these adjustments are attributable to a single hedging program, the underlying contracts extended over multiple reporting periods and therefore resulted in adjustments from the first quarter of 2001 through the third quarter of 2003. Management presents FFO before the impact of non-qualifying derivative contracts because economically this interest rate hedging program was consistent with our risk management objective of limiting our exposure to interest rate volatility and the change in accounting under GAAP did not correspond to a substantive difference. Management does not currently anticipate structuring future hedging programs in a manner that would give rise to this kind of adjustment.
 
Management uses FFO principally to evaluate the operating performance of our assets from period to period, and therefore it is important that transactions which impact operations over multiple periods be reflected in FFO in accordance with their substance, even if GAAP requires that the income or loss attributable to the transaction be recorded in a particular period. The resulting adjustments to FFO computed in accordance with the NAREIT definition are particularly meaningful when the events in question are substantively equivalent to other similar transactions, but the reporting of those similar transactions under GAAP more closely matches their economic substance.
 
Although our FFO as adjusted clearly differs from NAREIT's definition of FFO, as well as that of other REITs and real estate companies, we believe it provides a meaningful supplemental measure of our operating performance because we believe that, by excluding the effects of the non-qualifying derivative contracts, management and investors are presented with an indicator of our operating performance that more closely achieves the objectives of the real estate industry in presenting FFO. Additionally, we believe the nature of these adjustments is non-recurring because there were not similar events during the two preceding years, and the events were not reasonably likely to recur and did not, in fact, recur within the succeeding two years.
 
Neither FFO nor FFO as adjusted should be considered as alternatives to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance. Neither FFO nor FFO as adjusted represents cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP and is not a measure of liquidity or an indicator of our ability to make cash distributions. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO and FFO as adjusted should be compared with our reported net income and considered in addition to cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 


