FILE:BXP/BXP-8K-20061024180007.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K is furnished under Item 2.02 - "Results of Operations and Financial Condition." Such information, including the exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On October 24, 2006, Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2006. That press release referred to certain supplemental information that is available on the Company's website. The text of the supplemental information and the press release are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
This supplemental package contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by our use of the words "assumes," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "guidance," "intends," "plans," "projects," and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond Boston Properties' control and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. These factors include, without limitation, the ability to enter into new leases or renew leases on favorable terms, dependence on tenants' financial condition, the uncertainties of real estate development, acquisition and disposition activity, the ability to effectively integrate acquisitions, the costs and availability of financing (including the impact of interest rates on our hedging program), the effects of local economic and market conditions, the effects of acquisitions and dispositions (including the exact amount and timing of any related special dividend and possible impairment charges) on our operating results, the impact of newly adopted accounting principles on the Company's accounting policies and on period-to-period comparisons of financial results, regulatory changes and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Boston Properties does not undertake a duty to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company"), a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (REIT), is one of the largest owners, managers, and developers of first-class office properties in the United States, with a significant presence in five markets: Boston, Washington, D.C., Midtown Manhattan, San Francisco, and Princeton, N.J. The Company was founded in 1970 by Mortimer B. Zuckerman and Edward H. Linde in Boston, where it maintains its headquarters. Boston Properties became a public company in June 1997. The Company acquires, develops, and manages its properties through full-service regional offices. Its property portfolio is comprised primarily of first-class office space and also includes two hotels. Boston Properties is well-known for its in-house building management expertise and responsiveness to tenants' needs. The Company holds a superior track record in developing premium Central Business District (CBD) office buildings, suburban office centers and build-to-suit projects for the U.S. government and a diverse array of creditworthy tenants.
Boston Properties' senior management team is among the most respected and accomplished in the REIT industry. Our deep and talented team of thirty-one individuals average twenty-five years of real estate experience and sixteen years with Boston Properties. We believe that our size, management depth, financial strength, reputation, and relationships of key personnel provide a competitive advantage to realize growth through property development and acquisitions. Boston Properties benefits from the reputation and relationships of key personnel, including Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Chairman of our Board of Directors, and Edward H. Linde, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Each has a national reputation, which attracts business and investment opportunities. In addition, our three Executive Vice Presidents and other senior officers that serve as Regional Managers have strong reputations that aid us in identifying and closing on new opportunities, having opportunities brought to us, and negotiating with tenants and build-to-suit prospects. Boston Properties' Board of Directors consists of ten distinguished members, the majority of which serve as Independent Directors.
Boston Properties' primary business objective is to maximize return on investment in an effort to provide its stockholders with the greatest possible total return. To achieve this objective, the Company maintains a consistent strategy, which includes: Concentrating on a few carefully selected markets - characterized by high barriers to the creation of new supply and strong real estate fundamentals - where tenants have demonstrated a preference for high-quality office buildings and other facilities; selectively acquiring assets which increase its penetration in these select markets; taking on complex, technically-challenging projects that leverage the skills of its management team to successfully develop, acquire, and reposition properties; exploring joint-venture opportunities primarily with existing owners of land parcels who seek to benefit from the Company's depth of development and management expertise; pursuing the sale of properties (on a selective basis) to take advantage of its value creation and the demand for its premier properties; and continuing to enhance the Company's balanced capital structure through its access to a variety of capital sources.
 
 
 
 
 
Common Stock Data (NYSE: BXP)
Boston Properties' common stock has the following characteristics (based on information reported by the New York Stock Exchange):
 
Timing
Quarterly results for 2006 will be announced according to the following schedule:
 
 
 
 
With the exception of Green Street Advisors, an independent research firm, the equity analysts listed above are those analysts that, according to First Call Corporation, have published research material on the Company and are listed as covering the Company. Please note that any opinions, estimates or forecasts regarding Boston Properties' performance made by the analysts listed above do not represent the opinions, estimates or forecasts of Boston Properties or its management. Boston Properties does not by its reference above imply its endorsement of or concurrence with any information, conclusions or recommendations made by any of such analysts.
 
 
This section includes non-GAAP financial measures, which are accompanied by what we consider the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Quantitative reconciliations of the differences between the non-GAAP financial measures presented and the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are shown on pages 9 through 11. A description of the non-GAAP financial measures we present and a statement of the reasons why management believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors about the Company's financial condition and results of operations can be found on page 51.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." The Company's application of SFAS No. 144 results in the presentation of the net operating results of these qualifying properties sold or held for sale during 2005 and 2004 as income from discontinued operations for all periods presented. The following table summarizes income from discontinued operations (net of minority interest) for the three months ended September 30, 2006, June 30, 2006, March 31, 2006, December 31, 2005 and September 30, 2005, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the fourth quarter of 2002 the Company's operating partnership (Boston Properties Limited Partnership) received investment grade ratings on its senior unsecured debt securities and thereafter issued unsecured notes. The notes were issued under an indenture, dated as of December 13, 2002, by and between Boston Properties Limited Partnership and The Bank of New York, as trustee, as supplemented, which, among other things, requires us to comply with the following limitations on incurrence of debt: Limitation on Outstanding Debt; Limitation on Secured Debt; Ratio of Annualized Consolidated EBITDA to Annualized Interest Expense; and Maintenance of Unencumbered Assets. Compliance with these restrictive covenants requires us to apply specialized terms the meanings of which are described in detail in our filings with the SEC, and to calculate ratios in the manner prescribed by the indenture.
This section presents such ratios as of September 30, 2006 to show that the Company's operating partnership was in compliance with the terms of the indenture, as amended, which has been filed with the SEC. This section also presents certain other indenture-related data which we believe assists investors in the Company's unsecured debt securities. Management is not presenting these ratios and the related calculations for any other purpose or for any other period, and is not intending for these measures to otherwise provide information to investors about the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Investors should not rely on these measures other than for purposes of testing our compliance with the indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 25, 2004, the Company formed Boston Properties Office Value-Added Fund, L.P. (the "Value-Added Fund"), a strategic partnership with third parties, to pursue the acquisition of value-added investments in non-core office assets within the Company's existing markets. The Company intends to leverage its regional operating platform to source and acquire properties that will generate opportunity for value creation through repositioning, capital improvements and/or leasing strategies. The Value-Added Fund has total equity commitments of $140 million. The investment period expires on October 25, 2006. The Company will receive asset management, property management, leasing and redevelopment fees and, if certain return thresholds are achieved, will be entitled to an additional promoted interest.
The Company's interest in the Value-Added Fund is 25%. The investment in the Value-Added Fund is not included in the Company's portfolio information tables or any other portfolio level statistics.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This section contains an explanation of certain non-GAAP financial measures we provide in other sections of this document, as well as the reasons why management believes these measures provide useful information to investors about the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Additional detail can be found in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and other documents filed with the SEC from time to time.
Funds from Operations
Pursuant to the revised definition of Funds from Operations adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), we calculate Funds from Operations, or "FFO," by adjusting net income (loss) (computed in accordance with GAAP, including non-recurring items) for gains (or losses) from sales of properties, real estate related depreciation and amortization, and after adjustment for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure. The use of FFO, combined with the required primary GAAP presentations, has been fundamentally beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of REITs among the investing public and making comparisons of REIT operating results more meaningful. Management generally considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing our comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains and losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and excluding real estate asset depreciation and amortization (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. Our computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs or real estate companies that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently.
In addition to presenting FFO in accordance with the NAREIT definition, we also disclose FFO after a specific and defined supplemental adjustment to exclude losses from early extinguishments of debt associated with the sales of real estate. The adjustment to exclude losses from early extinguishments of debt results when the sale of real estate encumbered by debt requires us to pay the extinguishment costs prior to the debt's stated maturity and to write-off unamortized loan costs at the date of the extinguishment.  Such costs are excluded from the gains on sales of real estate reported in accordance with GAAP.  However, we view the losses from early extinguishments of debt associated with the sales of real estate as an incremental cost of the sale transactions because we extinguished the debt in connection with the consummation of the sale transactions and we had no intent to extinguish the debt absent such transactions.  We believe that this supplemental adjustment more appropriately reflects the results of our operations exclusive of the impact of our sale transactions. 
Although our FFO as adjusted clearly differs from NAREIT's definition of FFO, and may not be comparable to that of other REITs and real estate companies, we believe it provides a meaningful supplemental measure of our operating performance because we believe that, by excluding the effects of the losses from early extinguishments of debt associated with the sales of real estate, management and investors are presented with an indicator of our operating performance that more closely achieves the objectives of the real estate industry in presenting FFO.
Neither FFO nor FFO as adjusted should be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance. Neither FFO nor FFO as adjusted represents cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and neither is a measure of liquidity or an indicator of our ability to make cash distributions. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO and FFO as adjusted should be compared with our reported net income and considered in addition to cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements.
Funds Available for Distribution (FAD)
In addition to FFO, we present Funds Available for Distribution (FAD) by (1) adding to FFO as adjusted non-real estate depreciation, (2) eliminating the effect of straight-line rent, and (3) subtracting: recurring capital expenditures; hotel improvements, equipment upgrades and replacements; and second generation tenant improvement and leasing commissions. In addition, this calculation includes all non-cash compensation expense related to restricted securities. Although our FAD may not be comparable to that of other REITs and real estate companies, we believe it provides a meaningful indicator of our ability to fund cash needs and to make cash distributions to equity owners. In addition, we believe that to further understand our liquidity, FAD should be compared with our cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements. FAD does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and FAD should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance, as an alternative to net cash flows from
operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP), or as a measure of our liquidity.
Debt to Total Market Capitalization Ratio
Debt to total market capitalization ratio, defined as total consolidated debt as a percentage of the market value of our outstanding equity securities plus our total consolidated debt, is a measure of leverage commonly used by analysts in the REIT sector. Total market capitalization is the sum of our total indebtedness outstanding on a consolidated basis (excluding unconsolidated joint venture debt) and the market value of our outstanding equity securities calculated using the closing price per share of common stock of the Company multiplied by the sum of (1) the actual aggregate number of outstanding common partnership units of our operating partnership (including common partnership units held by the company), (2) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding long term incentive plan units of our operating partnership, or LTIP units, assuming all conditions have been met for the conversion of the LTIP units, and (3) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of preferred partnership units of our operating partnership. We are presenting this ratio because our degree of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. Investors should understand that our debt to total market capitalization ratio is in part a function of the market price of the common stock of Boston Properties, Inc., and as such will fluctuate with changes in such price and does not necessarily reflect our capacity to incur additional debt to finance our activities or our ability to manage our existing debt obligations. However, for a company like ours, whose assets are primarily income-producing real estate, the debt to total market capitalization ratio may provide investors with an alternate indication of leverage, so long as it is evaluated along with the ratio of indebtedness to other measures of asset value used by financial analysts and other financial ratios, as well as the various components of our outstanding indebtedness.
Net Operating Income (NOI)
NOI is a non-GAAP financial measure equal to net income available to common shareholders, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, plus corporate general and administrative expense, depreciation and amortization, interest expense, minority interest in Operating Partnership and losses from early extinguishment of debt, less interest income, development and management income, gains from property dispositions, gains on sale from discontinued operations, income from discontinued operations, income from unconsolidated joint ventures and minority interest in property partnerships. In some cases we also present NOI on a cash basis, which is NOI after eliminating the effects of straight-lining of rent. We use NOI internally as a performance measure and believe NOI provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations because it reflects only those income and expense items that are incurred at the property level. Therefore, we believe NOI is a useful measure for evaluating the operating performance of our real estate assets. Our management also uses NOI to evaluate regional property level performance and to make decisions about resource allocations. Further, we believe NOI is useful to investors as a performance measure because, when compared across periods, NOI reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs and acquisition and development activity on an unleveraged basis, providing perspective not immediately apparent from net income. NOI excludes certain components from net income in order to provide results that are more closely related to a property's results of operations. For example, interest expense is not necessarily linked to the operating performance of a real estate asset and is often incurred at the corporate level as opposed to the property level. In addition, depreciation and amortization, because of historical cost accounting and useful life estimates, may distort operating performance at the property level. NOI presented by us may not be comparable to NOI reported by other REITs that define NOI differently. We believe that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of our operating results, NOI should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in our consolidated financial statements. NOI should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance or to cash flows as a measure of our liquidity or ability to make distributions.
In-Service Properties
We treat a property as being "in-service" upon the earlier of (i) lease-up and completion of tenant improvements or (ii) one year after cessation of major construction activity under GAAP. The determination as to when a property should be treated as "in-service" involves a degree of judgment and is made by management based on the relevant facts and circumstances of the particular property. For portfolio operating and occupancy statistics we specify a single date for treating a property as "in-service." Under GAAP a property may be placed in service in stages as construction is completed and the property is held available for occupancy. In accordance with GAAP, when a portion of a property has been substantially completed and occupied or held available for occupancy, we cease capitalization on that portion, though we may not treat the property as being "in-service," and continue to capitalize only those costs associated with the portion still under construction.
Same Properties
In our analysis of NOI, particularly to make comparisons of NOI between periods meaningful, it is important to provide information for properties that were in-service and owned by us throughout each period presented. We refer to properties acquired or placed in-service prior to the beginning of the earliest period presented and owned by us through the end of the latest period presented as "Same Properties." "Same Properties" therefore exclude properties placed in-service, acquired or repositioned after the beginning of the earliest period presented or disposed of prior to the end of the latest period presented. Accordingly, it takes at least one year and one quarter after a property is acquired or treated as "in-service" for that property to be included in "Same Properties." See pages 21-23 for "In-Service Properties" which are not included in "Same Properties."
If you would like to receive this document in a different electronic format, please call investor relations at 617-236-3322.
 

Exhibit 99.2
111 Huntington Avenue
Boston, MA 02199
 
Kathleen DiChiara
Investor Relations Manager
(617) 236-3343
, a real estate investment trust, reported results today for the third quarter ended September 30, 2006.
BOSTON, MA, October 24, 2006  Boston Properties, Inc. (NYSE: BXP)
Funds from Operations (FFO) for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 were $137.3 million, or $1.19 per share basic and $1.16 per share diluted. This compares to FFO for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 of $123.7 million, or $1.11 per share basic and $1.07 per share diluted. The weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding totaled 115,431,903 and 120,726,865, respectively, for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 and 111,775,512 and 119,176,703, respectively, for the quarter ended September 30, 2005.
Net income available to common shareholders was $108.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2006, compared to $57.6 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. Net income available to common shareholders per share (EPS) for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 was $0.93 basic and $0.91 on a diluted basis. This compares to EPS for the third quarter of 2005 of $0.51 basic and $0.50 on a diluted basis. EPS for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 includes $0.28, on a diluted basis, related to (1) gains on sales of real estate of $0.15 and (2) our share of the gain on sale of 265 Franklin Street of $0.13, which is included in income from unconsolidated joint ventures.
The reported results are unaudited and there can be no assurance that the results will not vary from the final information for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of these reported results have been made.
As of September 30, 2006, the Company's portfolio consisted of 128 properties comprising approximately 42.5 million square feet, including five properties under construction totaling 1.2 million square feet and two hotels. The overall percentage of leased space for the 121 properties in service as of September 30, 2006 was 93.8%.
 
Significant events of the third quarter include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transactions completed subsequent to September 30, 2006:
 
EPS and FFO per Share Guidance:
The Company's guidance for the fourth quarter 2006 and full year 2007 for EPS (diluted) and FFO per share (diluted) is set forth and reconciled below. In addition to the assumptions described below the table, the guidance for the full year 2007 assumes that the Company's Board of Directors declares a special dividend in the amount of $5.25 per common share/unit in December 2006, payable by the end of January 2007, relating to the gain on sale of 280 Park Avenue; there can be no assurance, however, as to the exact amount or timing of this special dividend.
 
 
Except as otherwise noted above, the foregoing estimates reflect management's view of current and future market conditions, including assumptions with respect to rental rates, occupancy levels and earnings impact of the events referenced in this release. The estimates do not include possible future gains or losses or the impact on operating results from possible future property acquisitions or dispositions. EPS estimates may be subject to fluctuations as a result of several factors, including changes in the recognition of depreciation and amortization expense and any gains or losses associated with disposition activity. The Company is not able to assess at this time the potential impact of these factors on projected EPS. By definition, FFO does not include real estate-related depreciation and amortization or gains or losses associated with disposition activities. There can be no assurance that the Company's actual results will not differ materially from the estimates set forth above.
Boston Properties will host a conference call tomorrow, October 25, 2006 at 10:00 AM Eastern Time, open to the general public, to discuss the third quarter 2006 results, the fourth quarter 2006 and 2007 projections and related assumptions, and other related matters that may be of interest to investors. The number to call for this interactive teleconference is (800) 240-4186 (Domestic) or (303) 275-2170 (International); no passcode required. A replay of the conference call will be available through November 1, 2006 by dialing (800) 405-2236 (Domestic) or (303) 590-3000 (International) and entering the passcode 11072412. There will also be a live audio webcast of the call which may be accessed on the Company's website at www.bostonproperties.com in the Investor Relations section, through www.fulldisclosure.com for individual investors, or through the password-protected event management site, www.streetevents.com, for institutional investors. Shortly after the call a replay of the webcast and a podcast will be available on the Company's website, www.bostonproperties.com, in the Investor Relations section, and archived for up to twelve months following the call.
Additionally, a copy of Boston Properties' third quarter 2006 "Supplemental Operating and Financial Data" and this press release are available in the Investor Relations section of the Company's website at . These materials are also available by contacting Investor Relations at (617) 236-3322 or by written request to:
www.bostonproperties.com
Investor Relations
Boston Properties, Inc.
111 Huntington Avenue, Suite 300
Boston, MA 02199-7610
Boston Properties is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust that develops, redevelops, acquires, manages, operates and owns a diverse portfolio of Class A office properties and also includes two hotels. The Company is one of the largest owners and developers of Class A office properties in the United States, concentrated in five markets  Boston, Midtown Manhattan, Washington, D.C., San Francisco and Princeton, N.J.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by our use of the words "assumes," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "guidance," "intends," "plans," "projects" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond Boston Properties' control and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. These factors include, without limitation, the ability to enter into new leases or renew leases on favorable terms, dependence on tenants' financial condition, the uncertainties of real estate development, acquisition and disposition activity, the ability to effectively integrate acquisitions, the costs and availability of financing (including the impact of interest rates on our hedging program), the effects of local economic and market conditions, the effects of acquisitions and dispositions (including the exact amount and timing of any related special dividend and possible impairment charges) on our operating results, the impact of newly adopted accounting principles on the Company's accounting policies and on period-to-period comparisons of financial results, regulatory changes and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Boston Properties does not undertake a duty to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, including its guidance for the fourth quarter of 2006 and full fiscal year 2007.
 
 
 
In addition to presenting FFO in accordance with the NAREIT definition, we also disclose FFO after a specific and defined supplemental adjustment to exclude losses from early extinguishments of debt associated with the sales of real estate. The adjustment to exclude losses from early extinguishments of debt results when the sale of real estate encumbered by debt requires us to pay the extinguishment costs prior to the debt's stated maturity and to write-off unamortized loan costs at the date of the extinguishment. Such costs are excluded from the gains on sales of real estate reported in accordance with GAAP. However, we view the losses from early extinguishments of debt associated with the sales of real estate as an incremental cost of the sale transactions because we extinguished the debt in connection with the consummation of the sale transactions and we had no intent to extinguish the debt absent such transactions. We believe that this supplemental adjustment more appropriately reflects the results of our operations exclusive of the impact of our sale transactions.
Although our FFO as adjusted clearly differs from NAREIT's definition of FFO, and may not be comparable to that of other REITs and real estate companies, we believe it provides a meaningful supplemental measure of our operating performance because we believe that, by excluding the effects of the losses from early extinguishments of debt associated with the sales of real estate, management and investors are presented with an indicator of our operating performance that more closely achieves the objectives of the real estate industry in presenting FFO.
Neither FFO nor FFO as adjusted should be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance. Neither FFO nor FFO as adjusted represents cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and neither is a measure of liquidity or an indicator of our ability to make cash distributions. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO and FFO as adjusted should be compared with our reported net income and considered in addition to cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements.
 
Management is presenting these projected returns and related calculations to assist investors in analyzing the Company's recent acquisition. Management does not intend to present this data for any other purpose, for any other period or for its other properties, and is not intending for these measures to otherwise provide information to investors about the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update any of these projections.
 


