FILE:BXP/BXP-8K-20060606115414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
Item 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
On June 6, 2006, Boston Properties, Inc.'s Operating Partnership, Boston Properties Limited Partnership (the "Company"), through one of its wholly owned subsidiaries, completed the sale of the Company's property located at 280 Park Avenue in New York City for approximately $1.2 billion in cash. The property was sold to an affiliate of Istithmar PJSC ("Istithmar"), which is a private investment holding company based in Dubai. 280 Park Avenue is a Class A office tower that contains approximately 1,179,000 net rentable square feet. The property is currently 100% leased. The Company estimates net proceeds from the sale of approximately $850 million, after legal defeasance of indebtedness secured by the property (consisting of approximately $254.4 million of principal indebtedness and approximately $28.4 million of related defeasance costs) and the payment of transfer taxes, broker's fees, revenue support payments to Istithmar that are described below and other customary closing costs that the Company is responsible for paying under the terms of the purchase and sale agreement.
Pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement, the Company entered into a master lease agreement with Istithmar at closing. Under the master lease agreement, the Company has guaranteed that Istithmar will receive at least a minimum amount of base rent from approximately 74,340 square feet of space during the ten-year period following the expiration of the current leases for this space. The current leases for this space are scheduled to expire at various times between June 2006 and October 2007. The aggregate amount of base rent guaranteed by the Company over the entire period from 2006 to 2017 is approximately $67.3 million. The Company's guarantee obligations, which are in the form of base rent payments to Istithmar, will be reduced by the amount of base rent payable, whether or not actually paid, under qualifying leases for this space that are obtained by the Company from prospective tenants. The Company will remain responsible for any free rent periods. Istithmar will bear all customary leasing costs for this space, including tenant improvements and leasing commissions.
Under the purchase and sale agreement, the Company has also agreed to provide to Istithmar fixed monthly revenue support from the closing date until December 31, 2008. The aggregate amount of the revenue support payments will be approximately $22.5 million.
As part of the transaction, Istithmar has engaged the Company as the property manager and leasing agent for 280 Park Avenue for a one-year term that renews automatically. Either party has the right to terminate this relationship at any time after the termination or expiration of the master lease agreement described above.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
. This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by our use of the words "guidance," "expects," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "believes" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond the Company's control and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. These factors include the extent to which the Company will be able to obtain tenants for the space subject to the master lease and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company does not undertake a duty to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
The accompanying unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet of Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company") is presented as if the disposition of 280 Park Avenue and related mortgage financing defeasance, which occurred subsequent to March 31, 2006, had been consummated on March 31, 2006. On June 6, 2006, the Company completed the sale of 280 Park Avenue, a Class A office property of approximately 1,179,000 net rentable square feet located in midtown Manhattan, for a gross sales price of approximately $1.2 billion. In conjunction with the sale, the Company has entered into a master lease agreement with the buyer. Under the master lease agreement, the Company has guaranteed that the buyer will receive at least a minimum amount of base rent from approximately 74,340 square feet of space during the ten-year period following the expiration of the current leases for this space. The current leases for this space are scheduled to expire at various times between June 2006 and October 2007. The aggregate amount of base rent guaranteed by the Company over the entire period from 2006 to 2017 is approximately $67.3 million. The Company's guarantee obligations, which will be in the form of base rent payments to the buyer, will be reduced by the amount of base rent payable, whether or not actually paid, under qualifying leases for this space that are obtained by the Company from prospective tenants. The Company will remain responsible for any free rent periods. The buyer will bear all customary leasing costs for this space, including tenant improvements and leasing commissions. The Company has also agreed to provide to the buyer monthly revenue support from the closing date until December 31, 2008. The aggregate amount of the revenue support payments will be approximately $22.5 million.
Such pro forma information is based on the historical consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of that date, giving effect to the disposition of 280 Park Avenue and related mortgage financing defeasance. This Pro Forma Consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2006 (unaudited). In management's opinion, all adjustments necessary to reflect the above transaction have been made.
The following Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet is not necessarily indicative of what the actual financial position would have been assuming the disposition of 280 Park Avenue and related mortgage financing defeasance had been consummated on March 31, 2006 nor does it purport to represent the future financial position of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The accompanying unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005 are presented as if the disposition on June 6, 2006 of 280 Park Avenue and related mortgage financing defeasance had occurred on January 1, 2005. Due to the Company's continuing involvement through an agreement with the buyer to manage 280 Park Avenue for a fee after the sale, 280 Park Avenue will not be categorized as discontinued operations in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. An estimated nonrecurring gain on sale of real estate and loss on early extinguishment of debt of approximately $584.0 million (net of minority interest share of $110.8 million) and approximately $26.6 million (net of minority interest share of $5.0 million), respectively, have not been included in the Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations but will be reflected in the Company's consolidated statements of operations to be included in the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ending June 30, 2006.
These Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of the Company reported on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2006.
The unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated financial information prepared by Boston Properties' management is not necessarily indicative of what the actual results of operations would have been for the three months ended March 31, 2006 or for the year ended December 31, 2005 had the disposition of 280 Park Avenue and related mortgage financing defeasance actually occurred on January 1, 2005 and the effect thereof carried forward through the three month period ended March 31, 2006, nor do they purport to present the future results of operations of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
The Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations reflect the elimination of the historical results of operations of 280 Park Avenue for year ended December 31, 2005 and the three months ended March 31, 2006 (unaudited). Due to the Company's continuing involvement through an agreement with the buyer to manage 280 Park Avenue for a fee after the sale, 280 Park Avenue will not be categorized as discontinued operations in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
 
 
 
 


