FILE:BXP/BXP-8K-20070131160200.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
As previously announced, on November 17, 2006, Boston Properties, Inc.'s Operating Partnership, Boston Properties Limited Partnership (the "Company"), through one of its wholly owned subsidiaries, entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement with AVR Crossroads LLC ("AVR"), an affiliate of AVR Realty Company, LLC, for the sale of the Company's long-term leasehold interest in 5 Times Square in New York City and related credits for approximately $1.28 billion in cash. 5 Times Square is a Class A office tower that contains approximately 1,101,779 net rentable square feet and currently is 100% leased. The sale is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and, although there can be no assurances that the sale will be consummated, it is expected to close during the first quarter of 2007.
In connection with the proposed disposition, the Company is hereby filing, as hereto, pro forma consolidated financial information of the Company as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005 as if the proposed disposition had occurred as of the assumed dates set forth in such pro forma consolidated financial statements. is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
Exhibit 99.1
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Not applicable.
 
Pro forma financial information pursuant to Article 11 of Regulation S-X is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
.
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by our use of the words "guidance," "expects," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "believes" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond our control and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. These factors include, without limitation, the uncertainties of real estate development, acquisition and disposition activity, the ability to enter into new leases or renew leases on favorable terms, dependence on tenants' financial condition, the ability to effectively integrate acquisitions, the costs and availability of financing, the effects of local economic and market conditions, the effects of acquisitions and dispositions, including possible impairment charges, the impact of newly adopted accounting principles on our accounting policies and on period-to-period comparisons of financial results, regulatory changes and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake a duty to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
The accompanying unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet of Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company") is presented as if the disposition of the long-term leasehold interest in 5 Times Square and related credits, which is expected to close during the first quarter of 2007, had been consummated on September 30, 2006. The Company expects to complete the sale of the long-term leasehold interest in 5 Times Square and related credits during the first quarter of 2007 for a gross sales price of approximately $1.28 billion in cash. 5 Times Square is a Class A office property with approximately 1,101,779 net rentable square feet located in New York City. In conjunction with the sale, the Company has agreed to provide to the buyer monthly revenue support from the closing date until December 31, 2008. The aggregate amount of the revenue support payments will be approximately $1.9 million.
In addition, on January 30, 2007, the Company paid a special cash dividend of $5.40 per common share to shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 29, 2006. The decision to pay a special cash dividend was the result of the sales of assets in 2006, including 280 Park Avenue, which sale was reported on Form 8-K dated June 6, 2006. Holders of common units of limited partnership interest in Boston Properties Limited Partnership, the Company's Operating Partnership, as of the close of business on December 29, 2006 received the same total distribution on January 30, 2007. Holders of Series Two Preferred Units of limited partnership interest will participate in the special cash dividend on an as-converted basis in connection with their regular May 2007 distribution payment as provided in the Operating Partnership's partnership agreement. The Company has reflected the payment of the special cash dividend under "Other Adjustments" within the accompanying unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Such pro forma information is based on the historical consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of that date, giving effect to the disposition of the long-term leasehold interest in 5 Times Square and related credits and the payment of the special cash dividend. This unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with Form 10-Q for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 (unaudited). In management's opinion, all adjustments necessary to reflect the above transactions have been made.
The following unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet is not necessarily indicative of what the actual financial position would have been assuming the disposition of the long-term leasehold interest in 5 Times Square and related credits and the payment of the special cash dividend had been consummated on September 30, 2006, nor does it purport to represent the future financial position of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The accompanying unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and for the year ended December 31, 2005 are presented as if the disposition of the long-term leasehold interest in 5 Times Square and related credits, which is expected to close during the first quarter of 2007, had occurred on January 1, 2005. Due to the Company's continuing involvement through an agreement with the buyer to manage 5 Times Square for a fee after the sale, 5 Times Square will not been categorized as discontinued operations in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. A nonrecurring gain on sale of real estate of approximately $601.6 million (net of minority interest share of approximately $111.7 million) has not been included in the unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations but is expected to be reflected in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations to be included in the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ending March 31, 2007.
In addition, on June 6, 2006, the Company completed the sale of 280 Park Avenue, a Class A office property with approximately 1,179,000 net rentable square feet located in midtown Manhattan, for a gross sales price of approximately $1.2 billion. The pro forma effects of the sale of 280 Park Avenue have previously been included in a Form 8-K dated June 6, 2006. The Company has reflected these pro forma results of operations under "Other Adjustments" within the accompanying unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 and has reflected the results of operations of 280 Park Avenue for the period from January 1, 2006 through June 6, 2006 (the sale date) under "Other Adjustments" within the accompanying unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2006.
These unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of the Company, reported on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and on Form 10-Q for the nine months ended September 30, 2006.
The unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated financial information prepared by Boston Properties' management is not necessarily indicative of what the actual results of operations would have been for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 or for the year ended December 31, 2005, had the disposition of the long-term leasehold interest in 5 Times Square and related credits and the disposition of 280 Park Avenue actually occurred on January 1, 2005 and the effect thereof carried forward through the nine-month period ended September 30, 2006, nor do they purport to present the future results of operations of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statements of Operations reflect the historical results of operations of Five Times Square for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the nine months ended September 30, 2006 (unaudited). Due to the Company's continuing involvement through an agreement with the buyer to manage 5 Times Square for a fee after the sale, 5 Times Square will not been categorized as discontinued operations in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
 
 
 
 


