FILE:BXP/BXP-8K-20070321171531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On March 21, 2007, Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company") announced that William M. Daley has resigned as a Director of the Company, effective as of May 15, 2007, to devote more time to his other business interests. Mr. Daley has confirmed to the Company's Board of Directors that his resignation was not due to a disagreement with the Company on any matter relating to the Company's operations, policies or practices.
The full text of the Company's March 21, 2007 press release announcing Mr. Daley's resignation is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
111 Huntington Avenue
Boston, MA 02199
 
 Boston Properties, Inc. (NYSE: BXP), a real estate investment trust, announced today that William M. Daley has resigned from the Board of Directors, effective May 15, 2007, the date of the Company's 2007 annual meeting of stockholders. Mr. Daley resigned from the Board of Directors to devote more time to his other business interests.
BOSTON, MA, March 21, 2007
Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Chairman of the Board of Directors, said, "Bill Daley has been an accomplished leader in both government and the private sector, and he has served Boston Properties, Inc. as a trusted advisor with the same level of distinction. On behalf of Boston Properties, Inc. and the other members of the Board, I would like to express our gratitude to Bill for all of his contributions and wish him well."
Mr. Daley has served on the Company's Board of Directors since May 2003. He currently serves as Chairman of the Company's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and previously served on its Audit Committee.
Boston Properties, Inc. is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust that develops, redevelops, acquires, manages, operates and owns a diverse portfolio of Class A office properties that also includes two hotels. The Company is one of the largest owners and developers of Class A office properties in the United States, concentrated in five select marketsBoston, Midtown Manhattan, Washington, D.C., San Francisco, and Princeton, N.J. For more information about Boston Properties, please visit the Company's web site at .
http://www.bostonproperties.com


