FILE:BXP/BXP-8K-20080722214449.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 21, 2008, Boston Properties Limited Partnership a Delaware limited partnership and the entity through which Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company") conducts substantially all of its business, utilized an accordion feature under its Fifth Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement with a consortium of lenders to increase the current maximum borrowing amount under the facility from $923.3 million to $1.0 billion. All other material terms under the facility remain unchanged.
 
The information in this Item 2.02"Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is being furnished. Such information, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On July 22, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of 2008. That press release referred to certain supplemental information that is available on the Company's website. The text of the supplemental information and the press release are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d)
Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
E C
XECUTION
OPY
This Commitment Increase Agreement and Assignment (this "") is made as of the 21st day of July, 2008. Reference is made to that certain Fifth Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of August 3, 2006, among Boston Properties Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (""), Bank of America, N.A. ("") and the other lending institutions listed on thereto (the ""), BOA, as Administrative Agent (the ""), JPChase, as Syndication Agent, Eurohypo AG, New York Branch, KeyBank National Association and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co-Documentation Agents, and The Bank of New York, Citicorp North America, Inc., RBS Citizens, National Association, successor by merger to Citizens Bank of Massachusetts, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas and PNC Bank, National Association, as Co-Managing Agents (as amended, the "").
Agreement
Borrower
JPChase
BOA
Schedule 1
Banks
Administrative Agent
Credit Agreement
Section 2.10 of the Credit Agreement provides that the Borrower may request that the Total Commitment be increased to a Total Commitment of up to $1,000,000,000;
WHEREAS,
the Borrower has requested that the Total Commitment be increased by $76,700,000 (the "") to $1,000,000,000;
WHEREAS,
Increase
, TD Bank, N.A. and The Bank of Nova Scotia (the "") have each agreed to provide new Commitments to the Borrower in connection with the Increase and to become parties to the Credit Agreement on the terms set forth herein (the Assigning Lenders, the New Lenders, the Increase Lender and each other financial institution which is a party to the Credit Agreement immediately prior to the effectiveness hereof are referred to collectively herein as the "");
WHEREAS
New Lenders
Banks
, Union Bank of California, N.A. (the "") has agreed to provide an additional Commitment in connection with the Increase, a portion of which will be a new Commitment under the Increase and a portion of which will be effected by way of assignment from BOA and JPChase, as more fully described below;
WHEREAS
Increase Lender
, BOA and JPChase (the "") have each agreed to assign $1,650,000 of its Commitment (each, an "" and collectively, the "") to the Increase Lender (collectively, the "");
WHEREAS
Assigning Lenders
Assigned Portion
Assigned Portions
Assignments
the Commitments and the Commitment Percentages of the Banks, after giving effect to the Increase and the Assignments, will be adjusted as reflected on attached hereto, such that, after giving effect to the Increase and the Assignments, the Total Commitment will be $1,000,000,000; and
WHEREAS,
Annex 1
 
the Administrative Agent is willing to give effect to the Increase and the Assignments provided that the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Assigning Lenders, the Increase Lender and the New Lenders enter into this Agreement;
WHEREAS,
the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE,
All capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings given such terms in the Credit Agreement.
Pursuant to Section 2.10 of the Credit Agreement, the Increase Lender and the New Lenders hereby agree to fund the Increase (which such Increase is not required to be in an increment of $50,000,000) and the Increase Lender agrees to purchase the Assigned Portions, with each Bank having the resulting Commitment and Commitment Percentage set forth on attached hereto.
1. .
Funding of Commitment Increase
Annex 1
to the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to reflect the Banks' adjusted Commitments and Commitment Percentages and the increase in the Total Commitment, as set forth on attached hereto. The Administrative Agent shall make such arrangements with the Banks as shall be necessary to provide that each Bank shall hold its Commitment Percentage of the outstanding Revolving Credit Loans after giving effect to this Agreement, with all Eurodollar Breakage Costs and other amounts payable under Section 5.8 of the Credit Agreement, if any, to be borne by the Borrower.
2.
Amendment of Schedule 1.
Schedule 1
Annex 1
The Borrower hereby ratifies and confirms all of its Obligations to the Banks, including, without limitation, the Loans, the Notes, the other Loan Documents, and the Borrower hereby affirms its absolute and unconditional promise to pay to the Banks all Obligations under (and as defined in) and upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement.
3. .
Affirmation and Acknowledgment
For an agreed consideration, each Assigning Lender hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Increase Lender, and the Increase Lender hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from such Assigning Lender, its respective Assigned Portion, subject to and in accordance with the terms hereof and of the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date, including (i) all of such Assigning Lender's rights and obligations as a Bank under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to its Assigned Portion and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of such Assigning Lender (in its capacity as a Bank) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above, in each case to the extent relating to its Assigned Portion. Such sale and assignment is without recourse to such Assigning Lender and, except as expressly provided in this Agreement, without representation or warranty by such Assigning Lender.
4. .
Assignment Provisions
 
(a)Solely with respect to its Assigned Portion, each Assigning Lender (i) represents and warrants that (A) it is the legal and beneficial owner of its respective Assigned Portion, (B) its respective Assigned Portion is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim created by such Assigning Lender and (C) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (ii) assumes no responsibility with respect to (A) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (B) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (C) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (D) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
5. .
Assigning Lender; Increase Lender and New Lender Provisions
 
(b) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Increase Lender and each New Lender hereby agree to lend, without recourse to the Banks or the Administrative Agent, on and after the Effective Date, that portion of the Total Commitment, as the case may be, equal to the amount set forth on attached hereto opposite its name, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Credit Agreement, and acknowledge, without limitation, that the Borrower may from time to time borrow, repay and reborrow such amounts from each such Bank as provided in the Credit Agreement. Each New Lender hereby agrees to be bound by, and shall be entitled to the benefits of and, to the extent of its Commitment, shall be bound by the obligations of, the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement as if such New Lender had been one of the lending institutions originally executing the Credit Agreement as a "Bank"; that nothing herein shall be construed as making any of the New Lenders liable to the Borrower or the other Banks in respect of any acts or omissions of any party to the Credit Agreement or in respect of any other event occurring prior to the Effective Date.
Annex 1
provided
(c) Each New Lender (i) represents and warrants that it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Bank under the Credit Agreement; (ii) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 8.4 of the Credit Agreement and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement; (iii) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Banks or the Administrative Agent and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement; (iv) represents and warrants that it is an Eligible Assignee; (v) appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as Administrative Agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vi) agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Bank.
 
The Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Banks as follows:
5. .
Representations and Warranties
(a) The execution and delivery by the Borrower of this Agreement, and the performance by the Borrower of its obligations and agreements under this Agreement and the Credit Agreement, are within the authority of the Borrower, have been duly authorized by all necessary proceedings on behalf of the Borrower and do not and will not materially contravene any provision of law, statute, rule or regulation to which the Borrower is subject or the Borrower's agreement of limited partnership or its certificate of limited partnership or of any agreement or other instrument binding upon the Borrower (except for any such failure to comply under any such agreement or other instrument as would not materially and adversely affect the condition (financial or otherwise), properties, business or results of operations of the Borrower).
(b) This Agreement and the Credit Agreement constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms, except as limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws relating to or affecting generally the enforcement of creditors' rights and except to the extent that availability of the remedy of specific performance or injunctive relief is subject to the discretion of the court before which any proceeding therefor may be brought.
(c) Other than approvals or consents which have been obtained or those which would not have a material adverse effect on the Borrower, no approval or consent of any governmental agency or authority is required to make valid and legally binding the execution, delivery or performance by the Borrower of this Agreement; and no filing with any governmental agency or authority is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by the Borrower of this Agreement, other than filings which will be made with the SEC when and as required by law or deemed appropriate by the Borrower.
(d) The representations and warranties contained in Section 7 of the Credit Agreement and in the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the Effective Date (except (i) to the extent of changes resulting from transactions contemplated or not prohibited by this Agreement or the other Loan Documents and changes occurring in the ordinary course of business and (ii) to the extent that such representations and warranties relate expressly to an earlier date).
(e) No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing (both before and after giving effect to the Increase).
This Agreement shall be deemed to be effective as of the date first written above (the ""), subject to the execution and delivery of the following documents, each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and the payment of certain fees and expenses noted below on or before such date:
6. .
Conditions Precedent
Effective Date
(a) this Agreement executed by the Borrower, each Assigning Lender, each New Lender, the Increase Lender and the Administrative Agent;
 
(b) an Allonge amending each of the Revolving Credit Notes, duly executed, authorized and delivered by the Borrower in favor of the Increase Lender and each Assigning Lender;
(c) a Revolving Credit Note issued in favor of each New Lender in the original principal amount of such New Lender's Commitment, duly executed, authorized and delivered by the Borrower;
(d) a certificate dated as of the date hereof signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying that the Increase is duly authorized by the Borrower and attaching the resolutions evidencing such authorization, and (ii) certifying that the Increase Conditions have been satisfied and setting forth the applicable conditions; and
(e) payment by the Borrower in immediately available funds of the fees agreed to in the fee letter entered into in connection with the Increase.
From and after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall make all payments in respect of any New Lender's Commitment, including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts payable under the Credit Agreement, to the Administrative Agent for the account of such New Lender in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement.
7. .
Payments to New Lenders
.
8.
Miscellaneous Provisions
(a) This Agreement is intended to take effect as an agreement under seal and shall be construed according to and governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
(b) This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one instrument. In making proof of this Agreement it shall not be necessary to produce or account for more than one counterpart signed by each party hereto by and against which enforcement hereof is sought. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by facsimile shall be as effective as delivery of an original executed counterpart of this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower hereby agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, on demand by the Administrative Agent, all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred or sustained by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation of this Agreement (including reasonable legal fees).
 
, the Borrower, the Assigning Lenders, the New Lenders, the Increase Lender and the Administrative Agent have duly executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
This supplemental package contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by our use of the words "assumes," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "guidance," "intends," "plans," "projects," and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond Boston Properties' control and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. These factors include, without limitation, the ability of our joint venture partners to satisfy their obligations, the ability to enter into new leases or renew leases on favorable terms, dependence on tenants' financial condition, the uncertainties of real estate development, acquisition and disposition activity, the ability to effectively integrate acquisitions, the costs and availability of financing (including the impact of interest rates on our hedging program), the effects of local economic and market conditions, the effects of acquisitions and dispositions (including the exact amount and timing of any related special dividend and possible impairment charges) on our operating results, the impact of newly adopted accounting principles on the Company's accounting policies and on period-to-period comparisons of financial results, regulatory changes and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Boston Properties does not undertake a duty to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company"), a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (REIT), is one of the largest owners, managers, and developers of first-class office properties in the United States, with a significant presence in five markets: Boston, Washington, D.C., Midtown Manhattan, San Francisco, and Princeton, N.J. The Company was founded in 1970 by Mortimer B. Zuckerman and Edward H. Linde in Boston, where it maintains its headquarters. Boston Properties became a public company in June 1997. The Company acquires, develops, and manages its properties through full-service regional offices. Its property portfolio is comprised primarily of first-class office space and also includes one hotel. Boston Properties is well-known for its in-house building management expertise and responsiveness to tenants' needs. The Company holds a superior track record in developing premium Central Business District (CBD) office buildings, suburban office centers and build-to-suit projects for the U.S. government and a diverse array of creditworthy tenants.
Boston Properties' senior management team is among the most respected and accomplished in the REIT industry. Our deep and talented team of thirty-two individuals average twenty-five years of real estate experience and fifteen years with Boston Properties. We believe that our size, management depth, financial strength, reputation, and relationships of key personnel provide a competitive advantage to realize growth through property development and acquisitions. Boston Properties benefits from the reputation and relationships of key personnel, including Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Chairman of our Board of Directors, Edward H. Linde, Chief Executive Officer, and Douglas T. Linde, our President. Each has a national reputation, which attracts business and investment opportunities. In addition, our two Executive Vice Presidents and other senior officers that serve as Regional Managers have strong reputations that aid us in identifying and closing on new opportunities, having opportunities brought to us, and negotiating with tenants and build-to-suit prospects. Boston Properties' Board of Directors consists of nine distinquished members, the majority of which serve as Independent Directors.
Boston Properties' primary business objective is to maximize return on investment in an effort to provide its stockholders with the greatest possible total return. To achieve this objective, the Company maintains a consistent strategy, which includes: concentrating on a few carefully selected markets - characterized by high barriers to the creation of new supply and strong real estate fundamentals - where tenants have demonstrated a preference for high-quality office buildings and other facilities; selectively acquiring assets which increase its penetration in these select markets; taking on complex, technically-challenging projects that leverage the skills of its management team to successfully develop, acquire, and reposition properties; exploring joint-venture opportunities with partners who seek to benefit from the Company's depth of development and management expertise; pursuing the sale of properties (on a selective basis) to take advantage of its value creation and the demand for its premier properties; and continuing to enhance the Company's balanced capital structure through its access to a variety of capital sources.
 
 
 
 
Company Information
 
Common Stock Data (NYSE: BXP)
Boston Properties' common stock has the following characteristics (based on information reported by the New York Stock Exchange):
 
 
Timing
Quarterly results for 2008 will be announced according to the following schedule:
 
 
 
 
With the exception of Green Street Advisors, an independent research firm, the equity analysts listed above are those analysts that, according to First Call Corporation, have published research material on the Company and are listed as covering the Company. Please note that any opinions, estimates or forecasts regarding Boston Properties' performance made by the analysts listed above do not represent the opinions, estimates or forecasts of Boston Properties or its management. Boston Properties does not by its reference above imply its endorsement of or concurrence with any information, conclusions or recommendations made by any of such analysts.
 
 
This section includes non-GAAP financial measures, which are accompanied by what we consider the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Quantitative reconciliations of the differences between the non-GAAP financial measures presented and the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are shown on pages 9 through 11. A description of the non-GAAP financial measures we present and a statement of the reasons why management believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors about the Company's financial condition and results of operations can be found on page 50.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." The Company's application of SFAS No. 144 results in the presentation of the net operating results of qualifying properties sold or held for sale during the applicable period as income from discontinued operations for all periods presented. The following table summarizes income from discontinued operations (net of minority interest) for the three months ended June 30, 2008, March 31, 2008, December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, and June 30, 2007, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company's operating partnership (Boston Properties Limited Partnership) received investment grade ratings on its senior unsecured debt securities and thereafter issued unsecured notes. The notes were issued under an indenture, dated as of December 13, 2002, by and between Boston Properties Limited Partnership and The Bank of New York, as trustee, as supplemented, which, among other things, requires us to comply with the following limitations on incurrence of debt: Limitation on Outstanding Debt; Limitation on Secured Debt; Ratio of Annualized Consolidated EBITDA to Annualized Interest Expense; and Maintenance of Unencumbered Assets. Compliance with these restrictive covenants requires us to apply specialized terms the meanings of which are described in detail in our filings with the SEC, and to calculate ratios in the manner prescribed by the indenture.
This section presents such ratios as of June 30, 2008 to show that the Company's operating partnership was in compliance with the terms of the indenture, as amended, which has been filed with the SEC. This section also presents certain other indenture-related data which we believe assists investors in the Company's unsecured debt securities. Management is not presenting these ratios and the related calculations for any other purpose or for any other period, and is not intending for these measures to otherwise provide information to investors about the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Investors should not rely on these measures other than for purposes of testing our compliance with the indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 25, 2004, the Company formed Boston Properties Office Value-Added Fund, L.P. (the "Value-Added Fund"), a strategic partnership with third parties, to pursue the acquisition of value-added investments in non-core office assets within the Company's existing markets. The Value-Added Fund had total equity commitments of $140 million. The Company receives asset management, property management, leasing and redevelopment fees and, if certain return thresholds are achieved, will be entitled to an additional promoted interest.
On January 7, 2008, the Company transferred the Mountain View properties to its Value-Added Fund. In connection with the transfer of the Research Park and Technology Park properties to the Value-Added Fund, the Company and its partners agreed to certain modifications to the Value-Added Fund's original terms, including bifurcating the Value-Added Fund's promote structure such that Research Park and Technology Park will be accounted for separately from the non-Mountain View properties currently owned by the Value-Added Fund (i.e., Circle Star and 300 Billerica Road). As a result of the modifications, the Company's interest in the Mountain View properties is approximately 39.5% and its interest in the non-Mountain View properties is 25%. The Company does not expect that the Value-Added Fund will make any future investments in new properties. The investments held by the Value-Added Fund are not included in the Company's portfolio information tables or any other portfolio level statistics and therefore are presented below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This section contains an explanation of certain non-GAAP financial measures we provide in other sections of this document, as well as the reasons why management believes these measures provide useful information to investors about the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Additional detail can be found in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and other documents filed with the SEC from time to time.
Funds from Operations
Pursuant to the revised definition of Funds from Operations adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), we calculate Funds from Operations, or "FFO," by adjusting net income (loss) (computed in accordance with GAAP, including non-recurring items) for gains (or losses) from sales of properties, real estate related depreciation and amortization, and after adjustment for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure. The use of FFO, combined with the required primary GAAP presentations, has been fundamentally beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of REITs among the investing public and making comparisons of REIT operating results more meaningful. Management generally considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing our comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains and losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and excluding real estate asset depreciation and amortization (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. Our computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs or real estate companies that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently.
In addition to presenting FFO in accordance with the NAREIT definition, we also disclose FFO after a specific and defined supplemental adjustment to exclude losses from early extinguishments of debt associated with the sales of real estate. The adjustment to exclude losses from early extinguishments of debt results when the sale of real estate encumbered by debt requires us to pay the extinguishment costs prior to the debt's stated maturity and to write-off unamortized loan costs at the date of the extinguishment. Such costs are excluded from the gains on sales of real estate reported in accordance with GAAP. However, we view the losses from early extinguishments of debt associated with the sales of real estate as an incremental cost of the sale transactions because we extinguished the debt in connection with the consummation of the sale transactions and we had no intent to extinguish the debt absent such transactions. We believe that this supplemental adjustment more appropriately reflects the results of our operations exclusive of the impact of our sale transactions.
Although our FFO as adjusted clearly differs from NAREIT's definition of FFO, and may not be comparable to that of other REITs and real estate companies, we believe it provides a meaningful supplemental measure of our operating performance because we believe that, by excluding the effects of the losses from early extinguishments of debt associated with the sales of real estate, management and investors are presented with an indicator of our operating performance that more closely achieves the objectives of the real estate industry in presenting FFO.
Neither FFO nor FFO as adjusted should be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance. Neither FFO nor FFO as adjusted represents cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and neither is a measure of liquidity or an indicator of our ability to make cash distributions. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO and FFO as adjusted should be compared with our reported net income and considered in addition to cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements.
Funds Available for Distribution (FAD)
In addition to FFO, we present Funds Available for Distribution (FAD) by (1) adding to FFO as adjusted non-real estate depreciation and net derivative losses, (2) eliminating the effect of straight-line rent, and (3) subtracting: recurring capital expenditures; hotel improvements, equipment upgrades and replacements; and second generation tenant improvement and leasing commissions. In addition, this calculation includes all non-cash compensation expense related to restricted securities. Although our FAD may not be comparable to that of other REITs and real estate companies, we believe it provides a meaningful indicator of our ability to fund cash needs and to make cash distributions to equity owners. In addition, we believe that to further understand our liquidity, FAD should be compared with our cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements. FAD does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and FAD should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance, as an alternative to net cash flows from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP), or as a measure of our liquidity.
Consolidated Debt to Total Market Capitalization Ratio
Consolidated debt to total consolidated market capitalization ratio, defined as total consolidated debt as a percentage of the market value of our outstanding equity securities plus our total consolidated debt, is a measure of leverage commonly used by analysts in the REIT sector. Total consolidated market capitalization is the sum of (A) our total consolidated indebtedness outstanding plus (B) the market value of our outstanding equity securities calculated using the closing price per share of common stock of the Company multiplied by the sum of (1) the actual aggregate number of outstanding common partnership units of our operating partnership (including common partnership units held by the company), (2) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding long term incentive plan units of our operating partnership, or LTIP units, but excluding unearned outperformance plan units, assuming all conditions have been met for the conversion of the LTIP units, and (3) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of preferred partnership units of our operating partnership. We are presenting this ratio because our degree of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. Investors should understand that our consolidated debt to total consolidated market capitalization ratio is in part a function of the market price of the common stock of Boston Properties, Inc., and as such will fluctuate with changes in such price and does not necessarily reflect our capacity to incur additional debt to finance our activities or our ability to manage our existing debt obligations. However, for a company like ours, whose assets are primarily income-producing real estate, the consolidated debt to total consolidated market capitalization ratio may provide investors with an alternate indication of leverage, so long as it is evaluated along with the ratio of indebtedness to other measures of asset value used by financial analysts and other financial ratios, as well as the various components of our outstanding indebtedness.
Combined Debt to Total Market Capitalization Ratio
Combined debt to total combined market capitalization ratio, defined as total combined debt (which equals our total consolidated debt plus our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt) as a percentage of the market value of our outstanding equity securities plus our total combined debt, is an alternative measure of leverage used by some analysts in the REIT sector. Total combined market capitalization is the sum of (A) our total combined debt plus (B) the market value of our outstanding equity securities calculated using the closing price per share of common stock of the Company multiplied by the sum of (1) the actual aggregate number of outstanding common partnership units of our operating partnership (including common partnership units held by the Company), (2) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding long term incentive plan units of our operating partnership, or LTIP units, but excluding unearned outperformance plan units, assuming all conditions have been met for the conversion of the LTIP units, and (3) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of preferred partnership units of our operating partnership. We are presenting this ratio because our degree of leverage (including our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt) could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. Investors should understand that our combined debt to total combined market capitalization ratio is in part a function of the market price of the common stock of Boston Properties, Inc., and as such will fluctuate with changes in such price and does not necessarily reflect our capacity to incur additional debt to finance our activities or our ability to manage our existing debt obligations. However, for a company like ours, whose assets are primarily income-producing real estate, the combined debt to total combined market capitalization ratio may provide investors with an alternate indication of leverage, so long as it is evaluated along with the ratio of indebtedness to other measures of asset value used by financial analysts and other financial ratios, as well as the various components of our outstanding indebtedness.
Net Operating Income (NOI)
NOI is a non-GAAP financial measure equal to net income available to common shareholders, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, plus corporate general and administrative expense, depreciation and amortization, interest expense, minority interest in Operating Partnership and losses from early extinguishment of debt, less interest income, development and management income, gains from property dispositions, gains on sale from discontinued operations, income from discontinued operations, income from unconsolidated joint ventures and minority interest in property partnerships. In some cases we also present NOI on a cash basis, which is NOI after eliminating the effects of straight-lining of rent. We use NOI internally as a performance measure and believe NOI provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations because it reflects only those income and expense items that are incurred at the property level. Therefore, we believe NOI is a useful measure for evaluating the operating performance of our real estate assets. Our management also uses NOI to evaluate regional property level performance and to make decisions about resource allocations. Further, we believe NOI is useful to investors as a performance measure because, when compared across periods, NOI reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs and acquisition and development activity on an unleveraged basis, providing perspective not immediately apparent from net income. NOI excludes certain components from net income in order to provide results that are more closely related to a property's results of operations. For example, interest expense is not necessarily linked to the operating performance of a real estate asset and is often incurred at the corporate level as opposed to the property level. In addition, depreciation and amortization, because of historical cost accounting and useful life estimates, may distort operating performance at the property level. NOI presented by us may not be comparable to NOI reported by other REITs that define NOI differently. We believe that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of our operating results, NOI should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in our consolidated financial statements. NOI should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance or to cash flows as a measure of our liquidity or ability to make distributions.
In-Service Properties
In-service properties includes unconsolidated joint ventures. We treat a property as being "in-service" upon the earlier of (i) lease-up and completion of tenant improvements or (ii) one year after cessation of major construction activity under GAAP. The determination as to when a property should be treated as "in-service" involves a degree of judgment and is made by management based on the relevant facts and circumstances of the particular property. For portfolio operating and occupancy statistics we specify a single date for treating a property as "in-service" which is generally later than the date the property is placed in-service for GAAP. Under GAAP a property may be placed in service in stages as construction is completed and the property is held available for occupancy. In accordance with GAAP, when a portion of a property has been substantially completed and occupied or held available for occupancy, we cease capitalization on that portion, though we may not treat the property as being "in-service," and continue to capitalize only those costs associated with the portion still under construction.
Same Properties
In our analysis of NOI, particularly to make comparisons of NOI between periods meaningful, it is important to provide information for properties that were in-service and owned by us throughout each period presented. We refer to properties acquired or placed in-service prior to the beginning of the earliest period presented and owned by us through the end of the latest period presented as "Same Properties." "Same Properties" therefore exclude properties placed in-service, acquired or repositioned after the beginning of the earliest period presented or disposed of prior to the end of the latest period presented. Accordingly, it takes at least one year and one quarter after a property is acquired or treated as "in-service" for that property to be included in "Same Properties." See pages 21-23 for "In-Service Properties" which are not included in "Same Properties."
Annualized Revenue
Contractual rental obligations at the end of the reporting period, including contractual reimbursements, on an annualized cash basis.
Future Annualized Revenue
Contractual rental obligations at lease expiration, including current contractual reimbursements, on an annualized cash basis.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
, a real estate investment trust, reported results today for the second quarter ended June 30, 2008.
BOSTON, MA, July 22, 2008  Boston Properties, Inc. (NYSE: BXP)
Funds from Operations (FFO) for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 were $145.0 million, or $1.21 per share basic and $1.19 per share diluted. This compares to FFO for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 of $142.9 million, or $1.20 per share basic and $1.18 per share diluted. The weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding totaled 119,752,889 and 122,775,797, respectively, for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 and 118,961,276 and 122,660,356, respectively, for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.
Net income available to common shareholders was $79.5 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, compared to $102.3 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. Net income available to common shareholders per share (EPS) for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 was $0.66 basic and $0.66 on a diluted basis. This compares to EPS for the second quarter of 2007 of $0.86 basic and $0.84 on a diluted basis. EPS includes $0.04 and $0.11, on a diluted basis, related to gains on sales of real estate and discontinued operations for the quarters ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The gains on sales of real estate for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 primarily resulted from the sales of Newport Office Park for a gross sale price of $37.0 million and our share of the gain on sale of Worldgate Plaza of approximately $15.5 million, which is included in income from unconsolidated joint ventures, for a gross sale price of $109.0 million.
The reported results are unaudited and there can be no assurance that the results will not vary from the final information for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of these reported results have been made.
As of June 30, 2008, the Company's portfolio consisted of 142 properties comprising approximately 46.8 million square feet, including 14 properties under construction totaling 4.4 million square feet and one hotel. The overall percentage of leased space for the 127 properties in service as of June 30, 2008 was 94.9%.
 
Significant events during the second quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company expects to consummate the previously announced acquisitions of 540 Madison Avenue, 125 West 55th Street and Two Grand Central Tower, also located in New York City, through joint ventures in each of which the Company will own a 60% interest. 540 Madison Avenue is a 39-story building located at Madison Avenue at 55th Street that contains approximately 292,000 rentable square feet. 125 West 55th Street is a 23-story building, spanning from 55th to 56th Streets between Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue, that contains approximately 591,000 rentable square feet. Two Grand Central Tower is a 44-story mid-block
 
tower that runs from 44th to 45th Street between Lexington and Third Avenue and contains approximately 664,000 rentable square feet. The purchase prices for these properties are: 540 Madison Avenue, $277.1 million; 125 West 55th Street, $444.0 million; and Two Grand Central Tower, $427.9 million. The debt that is expected to be assumed as part of the transactions consists of the following: 540 Madison Avenuetwo secured loans having an aggregate principal amount of $120 million and a weighted average interest rate of 5.28% per annum, each of which matures in July 2013; 125 West 55th Streetan aggregate principal amount of $263.5 million of secured and mezzanine loans having a weighted average interest rate of 6.31% per annum, all of which mature in March 2010; and Two Grand Central Towera $190 million secured loan having a per annum interest rate of 5.10%, which matures in July 2010. Upon the closing of the General Motors Building, the deposit on these assets (which are in the form of letters of credit) was increased by an aggregate of $20 million, bringing the total remaining deposit to $75 million. The closings of the remaining acquisitions are expected to occur in multiple steps and are subject to customary conditions and termination rights for transactions of this type. There can be no assurance that the closings will occur on the terms currently contemplated or at all.
 
 
EPS and FFO per Share Guidance:
The Company's guidance for the third quarter and full year 2008 for EPS (diluted) and FFO per share (diluted) is set forth and reconciled below.
 
 
Except as described below, the foregoing estimates reflect management's view of current and future market conditions, including assumptions with respect to rental rates, occupancy levels and the earnings impact of the events referenced in this release and previously disclosed. The estimates do not include the impact on operating results from the anticipated acquisitions of 540 Madison Avenue, 125 West 55
th
Street and Two Grand Central Tower. The estimates also do not include possible future gains or losses or the impact on operating results from other possible future property acquisitions or dispositions. EPS estimates may be subject to fluctuations as a result of several factors, including changes in the recognition of depreciation and amortization expense and any gains or losses associated with disposition activity. The Company is not able to assess at this time the potential impact of these factors on projected EPS. By definition, FFO does not include real estate-related depreciation and amortization or gains or losses associated with disposition activities. There can be no assurance that the Company's actual results will not differ materially from the estimates set forth above.
On May 9, 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1 "Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)" ("FSP No. APB 14-1") that requires the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) to be separately accounted for in a manner that reflects the issuer's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. FSP No. APB 14-1 requires that the initial debt proceeds from the sale of Boston Properties Limited Partnership's ("BPLP") $862.5 million of 2.875% exchangeable senior notes due 2037 and $450.0 million of 3.75% exchangeable senior notes due 2036 be allocated between a liability component and an equity component in a manner that reflects interest expense at the interest rate of similar nonconvertible debt. The resulting debt discount will be amortized over the period during which the debt is expected to be outstanding (i.e., through the first optional redemption dates) as additional non-cash interest expense. Based on the Company's understanding of the application of FSP No. APB 14-1, this will result in an aggregate of approximately $0.13 - $0.14 per share (net of incremental capitalized interest) of additional non-cash interest expense for fiscal 2008. Excluding the impact of capitalized interest, the additional non-cash interest expense will be approximately $0.15 - $0.16 per share for fiscal 2008, and this amount (before netting) will increase in subsequent reporting periods through the first optional redemption dates as the debt accretes to its par value over the same period. FSP No. APB 14-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is not permitted. Upon adoption, FSP No. APB 14-1 requires companies to retrospectively apply the requirements of the pronouncement to all periods presented. The guidance set forth in the table above does not include the impact of FSP No. APB 14-1 as the Company is not permitted to early adopt the pronouncement. However, commencing in 2009, the Company will present prior period comparative results reflecting the impact of FSP No. APB 14-1.
Boston Properties will host a conference call on Wednesday, July 23, 2008 at 10:00 AM Eastern Time, open to the general public, to discuss the second quarter 2008 results, the 2008 projections and related assumptions, and other related matters that may be of interest to investors. The number to call for this interactive teleconference is (800) 240-5318 (Domestic) or (303) 262-2004 (International); no passcode required. A replay of the conference call will be available through July 30, 2008, by dialing (800) 405-2236 (Domestic) or (303) 590-3000 (International) and entering the passcode 11116665. There will also be a live audio webcast of the call which may be accessed on the Company's website at in the Investor Relations
www.bostonproperties.com
 
section. Shortly after the call a replay of the webcast will be available in the Investor Relations section of the Company's website, and archived for up to twelve months following the call.
Additionally, a copy of Boston Properties' second quarter 2008 "Supplemental Operating and Financial Data" and this press release are available in the Investor Relations section of the Company's website at .
www.bostonproperties.com
Boston Properties is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust that develops, redevelops, acquires, manages, operates and owns a diverse portfolio of Class A office properties and one hotel. The Company is one of the largest owners and developers of Class A office properties in the United States, concentrated in five markets  Boston, Midtown Manhattan, Washington, D.C., San Francisco and Princeton, N.J.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by our use of the words "assumes," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "guidance," "intends," "plans," "projects" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond Boston Properties' control and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. These factors include, without limitation, the ability of our joint venture partners to satisfy their obligations, the ability to enter into new leases or renew leases on favorable terms, dependence on tenants' financial condition, the uncertainties of real estate development, acquisition and disposition activity, the ability to effectively integrate acquisitions, the costs and availability of financing, the effectiveness of our interest rate hedging program, the effects of local economic and market conditions, the effects of acquisitions and dispositions (including possible impairment charges) on our operating results, the impact of newly adopted accounting principles on the Company's accounting policies and on period-to-period comparisons of financial results, regulatory changes and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Boston Properties does not undertake a duty to update or revise any forward-looking statement, including its guidance for the third quarter and full fiscal year 2008, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and is not a measure of liquidity or an indicator of our ability to make cash distributions. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO should be compared with our reported net income and considered in addition to cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements.
 
(1) Projected interest expense includes interest on partner loans totaling $450 million, of which approximately $294 million has been projected to be refinanced with third-party debt in the first quarter of 2009.
(2) Pursuant to the revised definition of Funds from Operations adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), we calculate Funds from Operations, or "FFO," by adjusting net income (loss) (computed in accordance with GAAP, including non-recurring items) for gains (or losses) from sales of properties, real estate related depreciation and amortization, and after adjustment for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure. Unleveraged FFO excludes, among other items, interest expense, which may vary depending on the level of corporate debt or property-specific debt. Unleveraged FFO Return is also a non-GAAP financial measure that is determined by dividing (A) the Company's share (60%) of Unleveraged FFO (based on the projected results for the six months ending December 31, 2008 (annualized) and the year ending December 31, 2009) plus the Company's share of fee income by (B) the Company's share of Total Unleveraged Investment. Management believes projected Unleveraged FFO Return is a useful measure in the real estate industry when determining the appropriate purchase price for a property or estimating a property's value. When evaluating acquisition opportunities, management considers, among other factors, projected Unleveraged FFO Return because it excludes, among other items, interest expense (which may vary depending on the level of corporate debt or property-specific debt), as well as depreciation and amortization expense (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates). Other factors that management considers include its cost of capital and available financing alternatives. Other companies may compute FFO, Unleveraged FFO and Unleveraged FFO Return differently and these are not indicators of a real estate asset's capacity to generate cash flow.
(3) Unleveraged Cash Return is a non-GAAP financial measure that is determined by dividing (A) the Company's share of Unleveraged Cash (based on the projected results for the six months ending December 31, 2008 (annualized) and the year ending December 31, 2009) plus the Company's share of fee income by (B) the Company's share of the Total Unleveraged Investment. Other real estate companies may calculate this return differently. Management believes that projected Unleveraged Cash Return is also a useful measure of a property's value when used in addition to Unleveraged FFO Return because, by eliminating the effect of straight-lining of rent and the SFAS No. 141 treatment of in-place above- and below-market leases, it enables an investor to assess the projected cash on cash return from the property over the forecasted period.
Management is presenting these projected returns and related calculations to assist investors in analyzing the Company's recent acquisition. Management does not intend to present this data for any other purpose, for any other period or for its other properties, and is not intending for these measures to otherwise provide information to investors about the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update any of these projections.
 


