FILE:BXP/BXP-8K-20080429182759.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K is furnished under Item 2.02"Results of Operations and Financial Condition." Such information, including the exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On April 29, 2008, Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2008. That press release referred to certain supplemental information that is available on the Company's website. The text of the supplemental information and the press release are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
This supplemental package contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by our use of the words "assumes," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "guidance," "intends," "plans," "projects," and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond Boston Properties' control and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. These factors include, without limitation, the ability to enter into new leases or renew leases on favorable terms, dependence on tenants' financial condition, the uncertainties of real estate development, acquisition and disposition activity, the ability to effectively integrate acquisitions, the costs and availability of financing (including the impact of interest rates on our hedging program), the effects of local economic and market conditions, the effects of acquisitions and dispositions (including the exact amount and timing of any related special dividend and possible impairment charges) on our operating results, the impact of newly adopted accounting principles on the Company's accounting policies and on period-to-period comparisons of financial results, regulatory changes and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Boston Properties does not undertake a duty to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company"), a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (REIT), is one of the largest owners, managers, and developers of first-class office properties in the United States, with a significant presence in five markets: Boston, Washington, D.C., Midtown Manhattan, San Francisco, and Princeton, N.J. The Company was founded in 1970 by Mortimer B. Zuckerman and Edward H. Linde in Boston, where it maintains its headquarters. Boston Properties became a public company in June 1997. The Company acquires, develops, and manages its properties through full-service regional offices. Its property portfolio is comprised primarily of first-class office space and also includes one hotel. Boston Properties is well-known for its in-house building management expertise and responsiveness to tenants' needs. The Company holds a superior track record in developing premium Central Business District (CBD) office buildings, suburban office centers and build-to-suit projects for the U.S. government and a diverse array of creditworthy tenants.
Boston Properties' senior management team is among the most respected and accomplished in the REIT industry. Our deep and talented team of thirty-two individuals average twenty-five years of real estate experience and fifteen years with Boston Properties. We believe that our size, management depth, financial strength, reputation, and relationships of key personnel provide a competitive advantage to realize growth through property development and acquisitions. Boston Properties benefits from the reputation and relationships of key personnel, including Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Chairman of our Board of Directors, Edward H. Linde, Chief Executive Officer, and Douglas T. Linde, our President. Each has a national reputation, which attracts business and investment opportunities. In addition, our two Executive Vice Presidents and other senior officers that serve as Regional Managers have strong reputations that aid us in identifying and closing on new opportunities, having opportunities brought to us, and negotiating with tenants and build-to-suit prospects. Boston Properties' Board of Directors consists of nine distinquished members, the majority of which serve as Independent Directors.
Boston Properties' primary business objective is to maximize return on investment in an effort to provide its stockholders with the greatest possible total return. To achieve this objective, the Company maintains a consistent strategy, which includes: concentrating on a few carefully selected markets - characterized by high barriers to the creation of new supply and strong real estate fundamentals - where tenants have demonstrated a preference for high-quality office buildings and other facilities; selectively acquiring assets which increase its penetration in these select markets; taking on complex, technically-challenging projects that leverage the skills of its management team to successfully develop, acquire, and reposition properties; exploring joint-venture opportunities primarily with existing owners of land parcels who seek to benefit from the Company's depth of development and management expertise; pursuing the sale of properties (on a selective basis) to take advantage of its value creation and the demand for its premier properties; and continuing to enhance the Company's balanced capital structure through its access to a variety of capital sources.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With the exception of Green Street Advisors, an independent research firm, the equity analysts listed above are those analysts that, according to First Call Corporation, have published research material on the Company and are listed as covering the Company. Please note that any opinions, estimates or forecasts regarding Boston Properties' performance made by the analysts listed above do not represent the opinions, estimates or forecasts of Boston Properties or its management. Boston Properties does not by its reference above imply its endorsement of or concurrence with any information, conclusions or recommendations made by any of such analysts.
 
 
This section includes non-GAAP financial measures, which are accompanied by what we consider the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Quantitative reconciliations of the differences between the non-GAAP financial measures presented and the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are shown on pages 9 through 11. A description of the non-GAAP financial measures we present and a statement of the reasons why management believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors about the Company's financial condition and results of operations can be found on page 51.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." The Company's application of SFAS No. 144 results in the presentation of the net operating results of qualifying properties sold or held for sale during the applicable period as income from discontinued operations for all periods presented. The following table summarizes income from discontinued operations (net of minority interest) for the three months ended March 31, 2008, December 31, 2007, September 30, 2007, June 30, 2007 and March 31, 2007, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the fourth quarter of 2002 the Company's operating partnership (Boston Properties Limited Partnership) received investment grade ratings on its senior unsecured debt securities and thereafter issued unsecured notes. The notes were issued under an indenture, dated as of December 13, 2002, by and between Boston Properties Limited Partnership and The Bank of New York, as trustee, as supplemented, which, among other things, requires us to comply with the following limitations on incurrence of debt: Limitation on Outstanding Debt; Limitation on Secured Debt; Ratio of Annualized Consolidated EBITDA to Annualized Interest Expense; and Maintenance of Unencumbered Assets. Compliance with these restrictive covenants requires us to apply specialized terms the meanings of which are described in detail in our filings with the SEC, and to calculate ratios in the manner prescribed by the indenture.
This section presents such ratios as of March 31, 2008 to show that the Company's operating partnership was in compliance with the terms of the indenture, as amended, which has been filed with the SEC. This section also presents certain other indenture-related data which we believe assists investors in the Company's unsecured debt securities. Management is not presenting these ratios and the related calculations for any other purpose or for any other period, and is not intending for these measures to otherwise provide information to investors about the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Investors should not rely on these measures other than for purposes of testing our compliance with the indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 25, 2004, the Company formed Boston Properties Office Value-Added Fund, L.P. (the "Value-Added Fund"), a strategic partnership with third parties, to pursue the acquisition of value-added investments in non-core office assets within the Company's existing markets. The Value-Added Fund had total equity commitments of $140 million. The Company receives asset management, property management, leasing and redevelopment fees and, if certain return thresholds are achieved, will be entitled to an additional promoted interest.
On January 7, 2008, the Company transferred the Mountain View properties to its Value-Added Fund. In connection with the transfer of the Research Park and Technology Park properties to the Value-Added Fund, the Company and its partners agreed to certain modifications to the Value-Added Fund's original terms, including bifurcating the Value-Added Fund's promote structure such that Research Park and Technology Park will be accounted for separately from the non-Mountain View properties currently owned by the Value-Added Fund (i.e., Circle Star and 300 Billerica Road). As a result of the modifications, the Company's interest in the Mountain View properties is approximately 39.5% and its interest in the non-Mountain View properties is 25%. The Company does not expect that the Value-Added Fund will make any future investments in new properties. The investments held by the Value-Added Fund are not included in the Company's portfolio information tables or any other portfolio level statistics and therefore are presented below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
800 Boylston Street
Boston, MA 02199
 
Arista Joyner
Investor Relations Manager
(617) 236-3343
, a real estate investment trust, reported results today for the first quarter ended March 31, 2008.
BOSTON, MA, April 29, 2008  Boston Properties, Inc. (NYSE: BXP)
Funds from Operations (FFO) for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 were $134.7 million, or $1.13 per share basic and $1.11 per share diluted. This compares to FFO for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 of $133.0 million, or $1.13 per share basic and $1.10 per share diluted. The weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding totaled 119,535,586 and 122,482,731, respectively, for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and 118,177,465 and 122,568,712, respectively, for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
Net income available to common shareholders was $88.5 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, compared to $854.3 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. For the quarters ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, net income available to common shareholders includes $20.0 million and $781.1 million, respectively, of gains on sales of real estate. Net income available to common shareholders per share (EPS) for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 was $0.74 basic and $0.73 on a diluted basis. This compares to EPS for the first quarter of 2007 of $7.14 basic and $6.99 on a diluted basis. EPS includes $0.17 and $6.40, on a diluted basis, related to gains on sales of real estate and discontinued operations for the quarters ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The gains on sales of real estate for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 primarily resulted from the sales of 5 Times Square and the Long Wharf Marriott hotel for gross sales prices of $1,280.0 million and $231.0 million, respectively.
The reported results are unaudited and there can be no assurance that the results will not vary from the final information for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of these reported results have been made.
As of March 31, 2008, the Company's portfolio consisted of 139 properties comprising approximately 43.9 million square feet, including 12 properties under construction totaling 3.6 million square feet and one hotel. The overall percentage of leased space for the 126 properties in service as of March 31, 2008 was 95.3%.
 
Significant events of the first quarter include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transactions completed subsequent to March 31, 2008:
 
 
 
EPS and FFO per Share Guidance:
The Company's guidance for the second quarter and full year 2008 for EPS (diluted) and FFO per share (diluted) is set forth and reconciled below.
 
The foregoing estimates reflect management's view of current and future market conditions, including assumptions with respect to rental rates, occupancy levels and the earnings impact of the events referenced in this release and previously disclosed. The estimates do not include possible future gains or losses or the impact on operating results from other possible future property acquisitions, dispositions, financings or potential ineffectiveness of our interest rate hedges. EPS estimates may be subject to fluctuations as a result of several factors, including changes in the recognition of depreciation and amortization expense and any gains or losses associated with disposition activity. The Company is not able to assess at this time the potential impact of these factors on projected EPS. By definition, FFO does not include real estate-related depreciation and amortization or gains or losses associated with disposition activities. There can be no assurance that the Company's actual results will not differ materially from the estimates set forth above.
On August 31, 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued proposed FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-a "Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)" (the "proposed FSP") that
 
would require the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) to be separately accounted for in a manner that reflects the issuer's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. The proposed FSP would require that the initial debt proceeds from the sale of Boston Properties Limited Partnership's ("BPLP") $862.5 million of 2.875% exchangeable senior notes due 2037 and $450.0 million of 3.75% exchangeable senior notes due 2036 be allocated between a liability component and an equity component in a manner that reflects interest expense at the interest rate of similar nonconvertible debt. The resulting debt discount would be amortized over the period during which the debt is expected to be outstanding (i.e., through the first optional redemption dates) as additional non-cash interest expense. Based on the Company's understanding of the application of the proposed FSP, this would result in an aggregate of approximately $0.13 - $0.14 per share (net of incremental capitalized interest) of additional non-cash interest expense for fiscal 2008. Excluding the impact of capitalized interest, the additional non-cash interest expense would be approximately $0.15 - $0.16 per share, and this amount (before netting) would increase in subsequent reporting periods through the first optional redemption dates as the debt accretes to its par value over the same period. At its March 26, 2008 meeting, the FASB reaffirmed the guidance in the proposed FSP and directed the staff to begin the balloting process for a final FSP, which is expected to be issued in its final form in May 2008. The guidance set forth in the table above does not include the potential impact of the proposed FSP.
Boston Properties will host a conference call on Wednesday, April 30, 2008 at 10:00 AM Eastern Time, open to the general public, to discuss the first quarter 2008 results, the 2008 projections and related assumptions, and other related matters that may be of interest to investors. The number to call for this interactive teleconference is (800) 218-8862 (Domestic) or (303) 262-2004 (International); no passcode required. A replay of the conference call will be available through May 7, 2008, by dialing (800) 405-2236 (Domestic) or (303) 590-3000 (International) and entering the passcode 11112060. There will also be a live audio webcast of the call which may be accessed on the Company's website at in the Investor Relations section. Shortly after the call a replay of the webcast and a podcast will be available on the Company's website, , in the Investor Relations section, and archived for up to twelve months following the call.
www.bostonproperties.com
www.bostonproperties.com
Additionally, a copy of Boston Properties' first quarter 2008 "Supplemental Operating and Financial Data" and this press release are available in the Investor Relations section of the Company's website at .
www.bostonproperties.com
Boston Properties is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust that develops, redevelops, acquires, manages, operates and owns a diverse portfolio of Class A office properties and one hotel. The Company is one of the largest owners and developers of Class A office properties in the United States, concentrated in five markets  Boston, Midtown Manhattan, Washington, D.C., San Francisco and Princeton, N.J.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by our use of the words "assumes," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "guidance," "intends," "plans," "projects" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond Boston Properties' control and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. These factors include, without limitation, the ability to enter into new leases or renew leases on favorable terms, dependence on tenants' financial condition, the uncertainties of real
 
estate development, acquisition and disposition activity, the ability to effectively integrate acquisitions, the costs and availability of financing, the effectiveness of our interest rate hedging program, the effects of local economic and market conditions, the effects of acquisitions and dispositions (including possible impairment charges) on our operating results, the impact of newly adopted accounting principles on the Company's accounting policies and on period-to-period comparisons of financial results, regulatory changes and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Boston Properties does not undertake a duty to update or revise any forward-looking statement, including its guidance for the second quarter and full fiscal year 2008, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and is not a measure of liquidity or an indicator of our ability to make cash distributions. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO should be compared with our reported net income and considered in addition to cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 


