FILE:BXP/BXP-8K-20090129092040.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Item 2.02"Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is being furnished. Such information, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On January 28, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter of 2008. That press release referred to certain supplemental information that is available on the Company's website. The text of the supplemental information and the press release are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d)
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
This supplemental package contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by our use of the words "assumes," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "guidance," "intends," "plans," "projects," and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond Boston Properties' control and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. These factors include, without limitation, the ability to enter into new leases or renew leases on favorable terms, dependence on tenants' financial condition, the uncertainties of real estate development, acquisition and disposition activity, the ability to effectively integrate acquisitions, the ability of our joint venture partners to satisfy their obligations, the costs and availability of financing, the effectiveness of our hedging programs, the effects of local economic and market conditions, the effects of acquisitions, dispositions and possible impairment charges on our operating results, the impact of newly adopted accounting principles on the Company's accounting policies and on period-to-period comparisons of financial results, regulatory changes and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Boston Properties does not undertake a duty to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company"), a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (REIT), is one of the largest owners, managers, and developers of first-class office properties in the United States, with a significant presence in five markets: Boston, Washington, D.C., Midtown Manhattan, San Francisco, and Princeton, N.J. The Company was founded in 1970 by Mortimer B. Zuckerman and Edward H. Linde in Boston, where it maintains its headquarters. Boston Properties became a public company in June 1997. The Company acquires, develops, and manages its properties through full-service regional offices. Its property portfolio is comprised primarily of first-class office space and also includes one hotel. Boston Properties is well-known for its in-house building management expertise and responsiveness to tenants' needs. The Company holds a superior track record in developing premium Central Business District (CBD) office buildings, suburban office centers and build-to-suit projects for the U.S. government and a diverse array of creditworthy tenants.
Boston Properties' senior management team is among the most respected and accomplished in the REIT industry. Our deep and talented team of thirty-three individuals average twenty-five years of real estate experience and fifteen years with Boston Properties. We believe that our size, management depth, financial strength, reputation, and relationships of key personnel provide a competitive advantage to realize growth through property development and acquisitions. Boston Properties benefits from the reputation and relationships of key personnel, including Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Chairman of our Board of Directors, Edward H. Linde, Chief Executive Officer, and Douglas T. Linde, our President. Each has a national reputation, which attracts business and investment opportunities. In addition, our two Executive Vice Presidents and other senior officers that serve as Regional Managers have strong reputations that aid us in identifying and closing on new opportunities, having opportunities brought to us, and negotiating with tenants and build-to-suit prospects. Boston Properties' Board of Directors consists of ten distinquished members, the majority of which serve as Independent Directors.
Boston Properties' primary business objective is to maximize return on investment in an effort to provide its stockholders with the greatest possible total return. To achieve this objective, the Company maintains a consistent strategy, which includes: concentrating on a few carefully selected marketscharacterized by high barriers to the creation of new supply and strong real estate fundamentalswhere tenants have demonstrated a preference for high-quality office buildings and other facilities; selectively acquiring assets which increase its penetration in these select markets; taking on complex, technically-challenging projects that leverage the skills of its management team to successfully develop, acquire, and reposition properties; exploring joint-venture opportunities with partners who seek to benefit from the Company's depth of development and management expertise; pursuing the sale of properties (on a selective basis) to take advantage of its value creation and the demand for its premier properties; and continuing to enhance the Company's balanced capital structure through its access to a variety of capital sources.
 
 
 
 
 
Company Information
 
Common Stock Data (NYSE: BXP)
 
Boston Properties' common stock has the following characteristics (based on information reported by the New York Stock Exchange):
 
 
Timing
 
Quarterly results for 2009 will be announced according to the following schedule:
 
 
 
 
 
With the exception of Green Street Advisors, an independent research firm, the equity analysts listed above are those analysts that, according to First Call Corporation, have published research material on the Company and are listed as covering the Company. Please note that any opinions, estimates or forecasts regarding Boston Properties' performance made by the analysts listed above do not represent the opinions, estimates or forecasts of Boston Properties or its management. Boston Properties does not by its reference above imply its endorsement of or concurrence with any information, conclusions or recommendations made by any of such analysts.
 
 
 
This section includes non-GAAP financial measures, which are accompanied by what we consider the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Quantitative reconciliations of the differences between the non-GAAP financial measures presented and the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are shown on pages 9 through 11. A description of the non-GAAP financial measures we present and a statement of the reasons why management believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors about the Company's financial condition and results of operations can be found on pages 50-51.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." The Company's application of SFAS No. 144 results in the presentation of the net operating results of qualifying properties sold or held for sale during the applicable period as income from discontinued operations for all periods presented. The following table summarizes income from discontinued operations (net of minority interest) for the three months ended December 31, 2008, September 30, 2008, June 30, 2008, March 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company's operating partnership (Boston Properties Limited Partnership) received investment grade ratings on its senior unsecured debt securities and thereafter issued unsecured notes. The notes were issued under an indenture, dated as of December 13, 2002, by and between Boston Properties Limited Partnership and The Bank of New York, as trustee, as supplemented, which, among other things, requires us to comply with the following limitations on incurrence of debt: Limitation on Outstanding Debt; Limitation on Secured Debt; Ratio of Annualized Consolidated EBITDA to Annualized Interest Expense; and Maintenance of Unencumbered Assets. Compliance with these restrictive covenants requires us to apply specialized terms the meanings of which are described in detail in our filings with the SEC, and to calculate ratios in the manner prescribed by the indenture.
This section presents such ratios as of December 31, 2008 to show that the Company's operating partnership was in compliance with the terms of the indenture, as amended, which has been filed with the SEC. This section also presents certain other indenture-related data which we believe assists investors in the Company's unsecured debt securities. Management is not presenting these ratios and the related calculations for any other purpose or for any other period, and is not intending for these measures to otherwise provide information to investors about the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Investors should not rely on these measures other than for purposes of testing our compliance with the indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 25, 2004, the Company formed Boston Properties Office Value-Added Fund, L.P. (the "Value-Added Fund"), a strategic partnership with third parties, to pursue the acquisition of value-added investments in non-core office assets within the Company's existing markets. The Value-Added Fund had total equity commitments of $140 million. The Company receives asset management, property management, leasing and redevelopment fees and, if certain return thresholds are achieved, will be entitled to an additional promoted interest.
On January 7, 2008, the Company transferred the Mountain View properties to its Value-Added Fund. In connection with the transfer of the Research Park and Technology Park properties to the Value-Added Fund, the Company and its partners agreed to certain modifications to the Value-Added Fund's original terms, including bifurcating the Value-Added Fund's promote structure such that Research Park and Technology Park will be accounted for separately from the non-Mountain View properties currently owned by the Value-Added Fund (i.e., Circle Star and 300 Billerica Road). As a result of the modifications, the Company's interest in the Mountain View properties is approximately 39.5% and its interest in the non-Mountain View properties is 25%. The Company does not expect that the Value-Added Fund will make any future investments in new properties. The investments held by the Value-Added Fund are not included in the Company's portfolio information tables or any other portfolio level statistics and therefore are presented below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This section contains an explanation of certain non-GAAP financial measures we provide in other sections of this document, as well as the reasons why management believes these measures provide useful information to investors about the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Additional detail can be found in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC from time to time.
Funds from Operations
Pursuant to the revised definition of Funds from Operations adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), we calculate Funds from Operations, or "FFO," by adjusting net income (loss) (computed in accordance with GAAP, including non-recurring items) for gains (or losses) from sales of properties, real estate related depreciation and amortization, and after adjustment for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure. The use of FFO, combined with the required primary GAAP presentations, has been fundamentally beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of REITs among the investing public and making comparisons of REIT operating results more meaningful. Management generally considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing our comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains and losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and excluding real estate asset depreciation and amortization (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. Our computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs or real estate companies that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently.
FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and is not a measure of liquidity or an indicator of our ability to make cash distributions. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO should be compared with our reported net income and considered in addition to cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements.
Funds Available for Distribution (FAD)
In addition to FFO, we present Funds Available for Distribution (FAD) by (1) adding to FFO as adjusted non-real estate depreciation, net derivative losses and impairments, (2) eliminating the effect of straight-line rent, (3) subtracting: recurring capital expenditures; hotel improvements, equipment upgrades and replacements; and second generation tenant improvement and leasing commissions; (4) subtracting all non-cash compensation expense related to restricted securities. Although our FAD may not be comparable to that of other REITs and real estate companies, we believe it provides a meaningful indicator of our ability to fund cash needs and to make cash distributions to equity owners. In addition, we believe that to further understand our liquidity, FAD should be compared with our cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements. FAD does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and FAD should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance, as an alternative to net cash flows from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP), or as a measure of our liquidity.
Consolidated Debt to Total Consolidated Market Capitalization Ratio
Consolidated debt to total consolidated market capitalization ratio, defined as total consolidated debt as a percentage of the market value of our outstanding equity securities plus our total consolidated debt, is a measure of leverage commonly used by analysts in the REIT sector. Total consolidated market capitalization is the sum of (A) our total consolidated indebtedness outstanding plus (B) the market value of our outstanding equity securities calculated using the closing price per share of common stock of the Company multiplied by the sum of (1) the actual aggregate number of outstanding common partnership units of our operating partnership (including common partnership units held by the company), (2) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding long term incentive plan units of our operating partnership, or LTIP units, but excluding unearned outperformance plan units, assuming all conditions have been met for the conversion of the LTIP units, and (3) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of preferred partnership units of our operating partnership. We are presenting this ratio because our degree of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. Investors should understand that our consolidated debt to total consolidated market capitalization ratio is in part a function of the market price of the common stock of Boston Properties, Inc., and as such will fluctuate with changes in such price and does not necessarily reflect our capacity to incur additional debt to finance our activities or our ability to manage our existing debt obligations. However, for a company like ours, whose assets are primarily income-producing real estate, the consolidated debt to total consolidated market capitalization ratio may provide investors with an alternate indication of leverage, so long as it is evaluated along with the ratio of indebtedness to other measures of asset value used by financial analysts and other financial ratios, as well as the various components of our outstanding indebtedness.
Combined Debt to Total Combined Market Capitalization Ratio
Combined debt to total combined market capitalization ratio, defined as total combined debt (which equals our total consolidated debt plus our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt) as a percentage of the market value of our outstanding equity securities plus our total combined debt, is an alternative measure of leverage used by some analysts in the REIT sector. Total combined market capitalization is the sum of (A) our total combined debt plus (B) the market value of our outstanding equity securities calculated using the closing price per share of common stock of the Company multiplied by the sum of (1) the actual aggregate number of outstanding common partnership units of our operating partnership (including common partnership units held by the Company), (2) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding long term incentive plan units of our operating partnership, or LTIP units, excluding unearned outperformance plan units, assuming all conditions have been met for the conversion of the LTIP units, and (3) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of preferred partnership units of our operating partnership.
We present this ratio because, following our acquisitions of the General Motors Building, Two Grand Central Tower, 125 West 55th Street and 540 Madison Avenue through unconsolidated joint ventures in June and August 2008, our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt increased significantly compared to prior periods when the amount of assets held through unconsolidated joint ventures was significantly smaller. In light of the difference between our consolidated debt and our total combined debt, we believe that presenting our combined debt to total combined market capitalization as well may provide investors with a more complete picture of our leverage. Investors should understand that our combined debt to total combined market capitalization ratio is in part a function of the market price of the common stock of Boston Properties, Inc., and as such will fluctuate with changes in such price and does not necessarily reflect our capacity to incur additional debt to finance our activities or our ability to manage our existing debt obligations. The combined debt to total combined market capitalization ratio should be evaluated along with the ratio of indebtedness to other measures of asset value used by financial analysts and other financial ratios, as well as the various components of our outstanding indebtedness.
 
 
 
Consolidated Net Operating Income (NOI)
Consolidated NOI is a non-GAAP financial measure equal to net income available to common shareholders, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, plus corporate general and administrative expense, depreciation and amortization, interest expense, minority interest in Operating Partnership and losses from early extinguishment of debt, less interest income, development and management income, gains from property dispositions, gains on sale from discontinued operations, income from discontinued operations, income from unconsolidated joint ventures and minority interest in property partnerships. In some cases we also present Consolidated NOI on a cash basis, which is Consolidated NOI after eliminating the effects of straight-lining of rent. We use Consolidated NOI internally as a performance measure and believe Consolidated NOI provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations because it reflects only those income and expense items that are incurred at the property level. Therefore, we believe Consolidated NOI is a useful measure for evaluating the operating performance of our real estate assets. Our management also uses Consolidated NOI to evaluate regional property level performance and to make decisions about resource allocations. Further, we believe Consolidated NOI is useful to investors as a performance measure because, when compared across periods, Consolidated NOI reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs and acquisition and development activity on an unleveraged basis, providing perspective not immediately apparent from net income. Consolidated NOI excludes certain components from net income in order to provide results that are more closely related to a property's results of operations. For example, interest expense is not necessarily linked to the operating performance of a real estate asset and is often incurred at the corporate level as opposed to the property level. In addition, depreciation and amortization, because of historical cost accounting and useful life estimates, may distort operating performance at the property level. Consolidated NOI presented by us may not be comparable to Consolidated NOI reported by other REITs that define Consolidated NOI differently. We believe that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of our operating results, Consolidated NOI should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in our consolidated financial statements. Consolidated NOI should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance or to cash flows as a measure of our liquidity or ability to make distributions.
Combined Net Operating Income (NOI)
Combined NOI is a non-GAAP financial measure equal to Consolidated NOI plus our share of income from unconsolidated joint ventures. In some cases we also present Combined NOI on a cash basis, which is Combined NOI after eliminating the effects of straight-lining of rent. In addition to Consolidated NOI, we use Combined NOI internally as a performance measure and believe Combined NOI provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations because it includes the impact of our unconsolidated joint ventures, which have become significant. Therefore, we believe Combined NOI is a useful measure for evaluating the operating performance of all of our real estate assets, including those held by our unconsolidated joint ventures. Our management also uses Combined NOI to evaluate regional property level performance and to make decisions about resource allocations. Further, like Consolidated NOI, we believe Combined NOI is useful to investors as a performance measure because, when compared across periods, Combined NOI reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs and acquisition and development activity on an unleveraged basis, providing perspective not immediately apparent from net income. Combined NOI presented by us may not be comparable to Combined NOI reported by other REITs that define Combined NOI differently. We believe that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of our operating results, Combined NOI should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in our consolidated financial statements. Combined NOI should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance or to cash flows as a measure of our liquidity or ability to make distributions.
Portfolio Net Operating Income (NOI)
Portfolio NOI is a non-GAAP financial measure equal to Combined NOI less our share of income from the Value-Added Fund in recognition of the fact that we do not include non-core office properties held by the fund in the Company's portfolio information tables or other portfolio level statistics because they have deficiencies in property characteristics which provide opportunity to create value. In some cases we also present Portfolio NOI on a cash basis, which is Portfolio NOI after eliminating the effects of straight-lining of rent. In addition to Consolidated NOI and Combined NOI, we use Portfolio NOI internally as a performance measure and believe Portfolio NOI provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations because it includes the impact of our unconsolidated joint ventures, which have become significant, but excludes the impact of the Value-Added Fund. Therefore, we believe Portfolio NOI is a useful measure for evaluating the operating performance of our active portfolio, including both consolidated assets and those held by our unconsolidated joint ventures. Our management also uses Portfolio NOI to evaluateregional property level performance and to make decisions about resource allocations. Further, like Consolidated NOI and Combined NOI, we believe Portfolio NOI is useful to investors as a performance measure because, when compared across periods, Portfolio NOI reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs and acquisition and development activity on an unleveraged basis, providing perspective not immediately apparent from net income. Portfolio NOI presented by us may not be comparable to Portfolio NOI reported by other REITs that define Portfolio NOI differently. We believe that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of our operating results, Portfolio NOI should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in our consolidated financial statements. Portfolio NOI should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance or to cash flows as a measure of our liquidity or ability to make distributions.
In-Service Properties
In-service properties include properties held by our unconsolidated joint ventures (other than the Value-Added Fund). We treat a property as being "in-service" upon the earlier of (i) lease-up and completion of tenant improvements or (ii) one year after cessation of major construction activity under GAAP. The determination as to when a property should be treated as "in-service" involves a degree of judgment and is made by management based on the relevant facts and circumstances of the particular property. For portfolio operating and occupancy statistics we specify a single date for treating a property as "in-service" which is generally later than the date the property is placed in-service for GAAP. Under GAAP a property may be placed in service in stages as construction is completed and the property is held available for occupancy. In accordance with GAAP, when a portion of a property has been substantially completed and occupied or held available for occupancy, we cease capitalization on that portion, though we may not treat the property as being "in-service," and continue to capitalize only those costs associated with the portion still under construction.
Same Properties
In our analysis of NOI, particularly to make comparisons of NOI between periods meaningful, it is important to provide information for properties that were in-service and owned by us throughout each period presented. We refer to properties acquired or placed in-service prior to the beginning of the earliest period presented and owned by us through the end of the latest period presented as "Same Properties." "Same Properties" therefore exclude properties placed in-service, acquired or repositioned after the beginning of the earliest period presented or disposed of prior to the end of the latest period presented. Accordingly, it takes at least one year and one quarter after a property is acquired or treated as "in-service" for that property to be included in "Same Properties." Pages 21-23 indicate by footnote the "In-Service Properties" which are not included in "Same Properties." "Same Properties NOI" includes our share of net operating income from unconsolidated joint ventures (other than the Value-Added Fund).
Annualized Revenue
Contractual rental obligations at the end of the reporting period, including contractual reimbursements, on an annualized cash basis.
Future Annualized Revenue
Contractual rental obligations at lease expiration, including current contractual reimbursements, on an annualized cash basis.
 

Exhibit 99.2
800 Boylston Street
Boston, MA 02199
AT THE COMPANY
Michael Walsh
Senior Vice President, Finance
(617) 236-3410
Arista Joyner
Investor Relations Manager
(617) 236-3343
, a real estate investment trust, reported results today for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2008.
BOSTON, MA, January 28, 2009  Boston Properties, Inc. (NYSE: BXP)
Results for the quarter ended December 31, 2008
Funds from Operations (FFO) for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 were $5.9 million, or $0.05 per share basic and $0.05 per share diluted. This compares to FFO for the quarter ended December 31, 2007 of $147.5 million, or $1.24 per share basic and $1.22 per share diluted. FFO for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 includes $(1.33) per share on a diluted basis related to non-cash impairment charges on certain of the Company's investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, $0.05 per share on a diluted basis related to termination income associated with the Company's termination of its lease with the law firm of Heller Ehrman LLP and $(0.05) per share on a diluted basis related to the ineffectiveness of certain of the Company's interest rate hedging contracts. The weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding totaled 120,788,097 and 121,478,453, respectively, for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and 119,248,503 and 122,338,037, respectively, for the quarter ended December 31, 2007.
In the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2008, the Company recognized non-cash impairment charges aggregating approximately $(188.3) million, or $(1.33) per share diluted, representing the other-than-temporary decline in the fair values below the carrying values of certain of the Company's investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. In accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18 "The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock" (APB No. 18), a loss in value of an investment under the equity method of accounting, which is other than a temporary decline, must be recognized. As a result, the Company recognized non-cash impairment charges on its investments in 540 Madison Avenue, Two Grand Central Tower, 125 West 55th Street, the Company's Value-Added Fund and its Eighth Avenue and 46th Street project located in New York City (discussed below).
 
Net income (loss) available to common shareholders was $(91.6) million for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, compared to $123.8 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2007. Net income (loss) available to common shareholders per share (EPS) for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 was $(0.76) basic and diluted. This compares to EPS for the fourth quarter of 2007 of $1.04 basic and $1.02 on a diluted basis.
Results for the year ended December 31, 2008
FFO for the year ended December 31, 2008 were $423.8 million, or $3.53 per share basic and $3.49 per share diluted. This compares to FFO for the year ended December 31, 2007 of $562.5 million, or $4.73 per share basic and $4.64 per share diluted, after a supplemental adjustment to exclude the loss from early extinguishment of debt associated with the sale of real estate. The loss from early extinguishment of debt associated with the sale of real estate totaled approximately $2.7 million, or $0.02 per share basic and diluted for the year ended December 31, 2007. The weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding totaled 119,979,810 and 122,759,352, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 118,838,524 and 122,453,781, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Net income available to common shareholders was $125.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $1,324.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Net income available to common shareholders per share (EPS) for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $1.04 basic and $1.03 on a diluted basis. This compares to EPS for the year ended December 31, 2007 of $11.11 basic and $10.94 on a diluted basis. Net income available to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2007, includes approximately $1,015.8 million related to gains on sales of real estate and discontinued operations.
The reported results are unaudited and there can be no assurance that the results will not vary from the final information for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2008. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of these reported results have been made.
As of December 31, 2008, the Company's portfolio consisted of 147 properties comprising approximately 49.8 million square feet, including 10 properties under construction totaling 3.8 million square feet and one hotel. The overall percentage of leased space for the 136 properties in service as of December 31, 2008 was 94.5%.
Significant events during the fourth quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EPS and FFO per Share Guidance:
The Company's guidance for the first quarter and full year 2009 for EPS (diluted) and FFO per share (diluted) is set forth and reconciled below.
 
Except as described below, the foregoing estimates reflect management's view of current and future market conditions, including assumptions with respect to rental rates, occupancy levels and the earnings impact of the events referenced in this release and previously disclosed. The guidance above includes the additional non-cash interest expense resulting from the change in accounting for convertible debt instruments that is more fully described in the next paragraph. In addition, the estimates do not include possible future gains or losses or the impact on operating results from other possible future property acquisitions or dispositions, or possible future impairment charges. EPS estimates may be subject to fluctuations as a result of several factors, including changes in the recognition of depreciation and amortization expense and any gains or losses associated with disposition activity. The Company is not able to assess at this time the potential impact of these factors on projected EPS. By definition, FFO does not include real estate-related depreciation and amortization or gains or losses associated with disposition activities. There can be no assurance that the Company's actual results will not differ materially from the estimates set forth above.
On May 9, 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1 "Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)" ("FSP No. APB 14-1") that requires the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash
 
upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) to be separately accounted for in a manner that reflects the issuer's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. FSP No. APB 14-1 requires that the initial proceeds from the sale of Boston Properties Limited Partnership's $862.5 million of 2.875% exchangeable senior notes due 2037, $450.0 million of 3.75% exchangeable senior notes due 2036 and $747.5 million of 3.625% exchangeable senior notes due 2014 be allocated between a liability component and an equity component in a manner that reflects interest expense at the interest rate of similar nonconvertible debt. The resulting debt discount will be amortized over the period during which the debt is expected to be outstanding (i.e., through the first optional redemption dates) as additional non-cash interest expense. Based on the Company's understanding of the application of FSP No. APB 14-1, this will result in an aggregate of approximately $0.15 - $0.16 per share (net of incremental capitalized interest) of additional non-cash interest expense for fiscal 2008 and approximately $0.21 - $0.22 per share for fiscal 2009. Excluding the impact of capitalized interest, the additional non-cash interest expense will be approximately $0.19 - $0.20 per share for fiscal 2008 and approximately $0.27 - $0.28 per share for fiscal 2009. The additional non-cash interest expense (before netting) will increase in subsequent reporting periods through the first optional redemption dates as the debt accretes to its par value over the same period. FSP No. APB 14-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is not permitted. Upon adoption, FSP No. APB 14-1 requires companies to retrospectively apply the requirements of the pronouncement to all periods presented.
Boston Properties will host a conference call on Thursday, January 29, 2009 at 10:00 AM Eastern Time, open to the general public, to discuss the fourth quarter and full year 2008 results, the 2009 projections and related assumptions, and other related matters that may be of interest to investors. The number to call for this interactive teleconference is (800) 257-7087 (Domestic) or (303) 205-0033 (International); no passcode required. A replay of the conference call will be available through February 5, 2009, by dialing (800) 405-2236 (Domestic) or (303) 590-3000 (International) and entering the passcode 11124985. There will also be a live audio webcast of the call which may be accessed on the Company's website at in the Investor Relations section. Shortly after the call a replay of the webcast will be available in the Investor Relations section of the Company's website and archived for up to twelve months following the call.
www.bostonproperties.com
Additionally, a copy of Boston Properties' fourth quarter 2008 "Supplemental Operating and Financial Data" and this press release are available in the Investor Relations section of the Company's website at .
www.bostonproperties.com
Boston Properties is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust that develops, redevelops, acquires, manages, operates and owns a diverse portfolio of Class A office properties and one hotel. The Company is one of the largest owners and developers of Class A office properties in the United States, concentrated in five markets  Boston, Midtown Manhattan, Washington, D.C., San Francisco and Princeton, N.J.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by our use of the words "assumes," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "guidance," "intends," "plans," "projects" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond Boston Properties' control and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. These factors include, without limitation, the ability to enter into new leases or renew leases on favorable terms, dependence on tenants' financial condition, the uncertainties of real
 
estate development, acquisition and disposition activity, the ability to effectively integrate acquisitions, the costs and availability of financing, the effectiveness of our interest rate hedging program, the ability of our joint venture partners to satisfy their obligations, the effects of local economic and market conditions, the effects of acquisitions, dispositions and possible impairment charges on our operating results, the impact of newly adopted accounting principles on the Company's accounting policies and on period-to-period comparisons of financial results, regulatory changes and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Boston Properties does not undertake a duty to update or revise any forward-looking statement, including its guidance for the first quarter and full fiscal year 2009, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to presenting FFO in accordance with the NAREIT definition, we also disclose FFO after a specific and defined supplemental adjustment to exclude losses from early extinguishments of debt associated with the sales of real estate. The adjustment to exclude losses from early extinguishments of debt results when the sale of real estate encumbered by debt requires us to pay the extinguishment costs prior to the debt's stated maturity and to write-off unamortized loan costs at the date of the extinguishment. Such costs are excluded from the gains on sales of real estate reported in accordance with GAAP. However, we view the losses from early extinguishments of debt associated with the sales of real estate as an incremental cost of the sale transactions because we extinguished the debt in connection with the consummation of the sale transactions and we had no intent to extinguish the debt absent such transactions. We believe that this supplemental adjustment more appropriately reflects the results of our operations exclusive of the impact of our sale transactions.
Although our FFO as adjusted clearly differs from NAREIT's definition of FFO, and may not be comparable to that of other REITs and real estate companies, we believe it provides a meaningful supplemental measure of our operating performance because we believe that, by excluding the effects of the losses from early extinguishments of debt associated with the sales of real estate, management and investors are presented with an indicator of our operating performance that more closely achieves the objectives of the real estate industry in presenting FFO.
Neither FFO nor FFO as adjusted should be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance. Neither FFO nor FFO as adjusted represents cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and neither is a measure of liquidity or an indicator of our ability to make cash distributions. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO and FFO as adjusted should be compared with our reported net income and considered in addition to cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements.
 
 


