FILE:BXP/BXP-8K-20110502173311.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Item 2.02 - "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is being furnished. Such information, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
On May 2, 2011, Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2011. That press release referred to certain supplemental information that is available on the Company's website. The text of the supplemental information and the press release are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) .
Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
This supplemental package contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by our use of the words "assumes," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "guidance," "intends," "plans," "projects," and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond Boston Properties' control and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. These factors include, without limitation, the ability to enter into new leases or renew leases on favorable terms, dependence on tenants' financial condition, the uncertainties of real estate development, acquisition and disposition activity, the ability to effectively integrate acquisitions, the ability of our joint venture partners to satisfy their obligations, the costs and availability of financing, the effectiveness of our interest rate hedging programs, the effects of local economic and market conditions, the effects of acquisitions, dispositions and possible impairment charges on our operating results, the impact of newly adopted accounting principles on the Company's accounting policies and on period-to-period comparisons of financial results, regulatory changes and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Boston Properties does not undertake a duty to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company"), a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (REIT), is one of the largest owners, managers, and developers of first-class office properties in the United States, with a significant presence in five markets: Boston, Washington, D.C., Midtown Manhattan, San Francisco, and Princeton, N.J. The Company was founded in 1970 by Mortimer B. Zuckerman and Edward H. Linde in Boston, where it maintains its headquarters. Boston Properties became a public company in June 1997. The Company acquires, develops, and manages its properties through full-service regional offices. Its property portfolio is comprised primarily of first-class office space, one hotel, two residential properties and three retail properties. Boston Properties is well-known for its in-house building management expertise and responsiveness to tenants' needs. The Company holds a superior track record in developing premium Central Business District (CBD) office buildings, suburban office centers and build-to-suit projects for the U.S. government and a diverse array of creditworthy tenants.
Boston Properties' senior management team is among the most respected and accomplished in the REIT industry. Our deep and talented team of thirty-four individuals averages twenty-six years of real estate experience and seventeen years with Boston Properties. We believe that our size, management depth, financial strength, reputation, and relationships of key personnel provide a competitive advantage to realize growth through property development and acquisitions. Boston Properties benefits from the reputation and relationships of key personnel, including Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer; Douglas T. Linde, President; E. Mitchell Norville, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer; Raymond A. Ritchey, Executive Vice President, National Director of Acquisitions and Development; and Michael E. LaBelle, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. Our senior management team's national reputation helps us attract business and investment opportunities. In addition, our other senior officers that serve as Regional Managers have strong reputations that assist in identifying and closing on new opportunities, having opportunities brought to us, and in negotiating with tenants and build-to-suit prospects. Additionally, Boston Properties' Board of Directors consists of ten distinguished members, the majority of whom serve as Independent Directors.
Boston Properties' primary business objective is to maximize return on investment in an effort to provide its stockholders with the greatest possible total return. To achieve this objective, the Company maintains a consistent strategy that includes the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common Stock Data (NYSE: BXP)
 
Boston Properties' common stock has the following characteristics (based on information reported by the New York Stock Exchange):
 
 
Timing
 
Quarterly results for the remainder of 2011 will be announced according to the following schedule:
 
 
 
 
 
With the exception of Green Street Advisors, an independent research firm, the equity analysts listed above are those analysts that, according to First Call Corporation, have published research material on the Company and are listed as covering the Company. Please note that any opinions, estimates or forecasts regarding Boston Properties' performance made by the analysts listed above do not represent the opinions, estimates or forecasts of Boston Properties or its management. Boston Properties does not by its reference above imply its endorsement of or concurrence with any information, conclusions or recommendations made by any of such analysts.
 
 
 
This section includes non-GAAP financial measures, which are accompanied by what we consider the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Quantitative reconciliations of the differences between the non-GAAP financial measures presented and the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are shown on pages 9-11. A description of the non-GAAP financial measures we present and a statement of the reasons why management believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors about the Company's financial condition and results of operations can be found on pages 49-50.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company's operating partnership (Boston Properties Limited Partnership) received investment grade ratings on its senior unsecured debt securities and thereafter issued unsecured notes. The notes were issued under an indenture, dated as of December 13, 2002, by and between Boston Properties Limited Partnership and The Bank of New York, as trustee, as supplemented, which, among other things, requires us to comply with the following limitations on incurrence of debt: Limitation on Outstanding Debt; Limitation on Secured Debt; Ratio of Annualized Consolidated EBITDA to Annualized Interest Expense; and Maintenance of Unencumbered Assets. Compliance with these restrictive covenants requires us to apply specialized terms the meanings of which are described in detail in our filings with the SEC, and to calculate ratios in the manner prescribed by the indenture.
This section presents such ratios as of March 31, 2011 to show that the Company's Operating Partnership was in compliance with the terms of the indenture, as amended, which has been filed with the SEC. This section also presents certain other indenture-related data which we believe assists investors in the Company's unsecured debt securities. Management is not presenting these ratios and the related calculations for any other purpose or for any other period, and is not intending for these measures to otherwise provide information to investors about the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Investors should not rely on these measures other than for purposes of testing our compliance with the indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 25, 2004, the Company formed Boston Properties Office Value-Added Fund, L.P. (the "Value-Added Fund"), a strategic partnership with third parties, to pursue the acquisition of value-added investments in non-core office assets within the Company's existing markets. The Value-Added Fund had total equity commitments of $140 million. The Company receives asset management, property management, leasing and redevelopment fees and, if certain return thresholds are achieved, will be entitled to an additional promoted interest.
On January 7, 2008, the Company transferred the Mountain View properties to its Value-Added Fund. In connection with the transfer of the Research Park and Technology Park properties to the Value-Added Fund, the Company and its partners agreed to certain modifications to the Value-Added Fund's original terms, including bifurcating the Value-Added Fund's promote structure such that Research Park and Technology Park will be accounted for separately from the non-Mountain View properties then owned by the Value-Added Fund (i.e. 300 Billerica Road). As a result of the modifications, the Company's interest in the Mountain View properties is approximately 39.5% and its interest in the non-Mountain View properties is 25%. The Company does not expect that the Value-Added Fund will make any future investments in new properties. The investments held by the Value-Added Fund are not included in the Company's portfolio information tables or any other portfolio level statistics and therefore are presented below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This section contains an explanation of certain non-GAAP financial measures we provide in other sections of this document, as well as the reasons why management believes these measures provide useful information to investors about the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Additional detail can be found in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as well as other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC from time to time.
Funds from Operations
Pursuant to the revised definition of Funds from Operations adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), we calculate Funds from Operations, or "FFO," by adjusting net income (loss) attributable to Boston Properties, Inc. (computed in accordance with GAAP, including non-recurring items) for gains (or losses) from sales of properties, real estate related depreciation and amortization, and after adjustment for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure. The use of FFO, combined with the required primary GAAP presentations, has been fundamentally beneficial in improving the understanding of operating results of REITs among the investing public and making comparisons of REIT operating results more meaningful. Management generally considers FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing our comparative operating and financial performance because, by excluding gains and losses related to sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets and excluding real estate asset depreciation and amortization (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. Our computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs or real estate companies that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently.
FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income attributable to Boston Properties, Inc. (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and is not a measure of liquidity or an indicator of our ability to make cash distributions. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO should be compared with our reported net income attributable to Boston Properties, Inc. and considered in addition to cash flows determined in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements.
Funds Available for Distribution (FAD)
In addition to FFO, we present Funds Available for Distribution (FAD) by (1) adding to FFO non-real estate depreciation, fair value interest adjustment, losses from early extinguishments of debt, impairments, ASC 470-20 (formerly known as FSP APB 14-1) interest expense adjustment, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and partners' share of joint venture 2nd generation tenant improvement and leasing commission, (2) eliminating the effects of straight-line rent and fair value lease revenue, (3) subtracting: recurring capital expenditures; hotel improvements, equipment upgrades and replacements; and second generation tenant improvement and leasing commissions (included in the period in which the lease commences); and (4) subtracting the gain from suspension of development, non-cash termination income and non-cash income from the termination of a management agreement. Although our FAD may not be comparable to that of other REITs and real estate companies, we believe it provides a meaningful indicator of our ability to fund cash needs and to make cash distributions to equity owners. In addition, we believe that to further understand our liquidity, FAD should be compared with our cash flows determined in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements. FAD does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and FAD should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance, as an alternative to net cash flows from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP), or as a measure of our liquidity.
Total Consolidated Debt to Total Consolidated Market Capitalization Ratio
Total consolidated debt to total consolidated market capitalization ratio, defined as total consolidated debt as a percentage of the market value of our outstanding equity securities plus our total consolidated debt, is a measure of leverage commonly used by analysts in the REIT sector. Total consolidated market capitalization is the sum of (A) our total consolidated indebtedness outstanding plus (B) the market value of our outstanding equity securities calculated using the closing price per share of common stock of the Company multiplied by the sum of (1) outstanding shares of common stock of the Company, (2) outstanding common units of limited partnership interest in Boston Properties Limited Partnership (excluding common units held by the Company), (3) common units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding Series Two Preferred Units of partnership interest in Boston Properties Limited Partnership and (4) common units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding LTIP Units, assuming all conditions have been met for the conversion of the LTIP Units. The calculation of total consolidated market capitalization does not include OPP Units because, unlike other LTIP Units, they are not earned until certain thresholds are achieved. We are presenting this ratio because our degree of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. Investors should understand that our total consolidated debt to total consolidated market capitalization ratio is in part a function of the market price of the common stock of the Company, and as such will fluctuate with changes in such price and does not necessarily reflect our capacity to incur additional debt to finance our activities or our ability to manage our existing debt obligations. However, for a company like ours, whose assets are primarily income-producing real estate, the total consolidated debt to total consolidated market capitalization ratio may provide investors with an alternate indication of leverage, so long as it is evaluated along with the ratio of indebtedness to other measures of asset value used by financial analysts and other financial ratios, as well as the various components of our outstanding indebtedness.
Total Combined Debt to Total Combined Market Capitalization Ratio
Total combined debt to total combined market capitalization ratio, defined as total combined debt (which equals our total consolidated debt plus our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt) as a percentage of the market value of our outstanding equity securities plus our total combined debt, is an alternative measure of leverage used by some analysts in the REIT sector. Total combined market capitalization is the sum of (A) our total combined debt plus (B) the market value of our outstanding equity securities calculated using the closing price per share of common stock of the Company multiplied by the sum of (1) outstanding shares of common stock of the Company, (2) outstanding common units of limited partnership interest in Boston Properties Limited Partnership (excluding common units held by the Company), (3) common units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding Series Two Preferred Units of partnership interest in Boston Properties Limited Partnership and (4) common units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding LTIP Units, assuming all conditions have been met for the conversion of the LTIP Units. The calculation of total combined market capitalization does not include OPP Units because, unlike other LTIP Units, they are not earned until certain thresholds are achieved.
We present this ratio because, following our acquisitions of the General Motors Building, Two Grand Central Tower, 125 West 55th Street and 540 Madison Avenue through unconsolidated joint ventures in June and August 2008, our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt increased significantly compared to prior periods when the amount of assets held through unconsolidated joint ventures was significantly smaller. In light of the difference between our total consolidated debt and our total combined debt, we believe that presenting our total combined debt to total combined market capitalization as well may provide investors with a more complete picture of our leverage. Investors should understand that our total combined debt to total combined market capitalization ratio is in part a function of the market price of the common stock of the Company, and as such will fluctuate with changes in such price and does not necessarily reflect our capacity to incur additional debt to finance our activities or our ability to manage our existing debt obligations. The total combined debt to total combined market capitalization ratio should be evaluated along with the ratio of indebtedness to other measures of asset value used by financial analysts and other financial ratios, as well as the various components of our outstanding indebtedness.
 
 
 
Consolidated Net Operating Income (NOI)
Consolidated NOI is a non-GAAP financial measure equal to net income attributable to Boston Properties, Inc., the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, plus income attributable to noncontrolling interests, corporate general and administrative expense, acquisition costs, depreciation and amortization, interest expense, loss from suspension of development, net derivative losses and losses from early extinguishments of debt, less interest income, development and management services income, gains from property dispositions and income from unconsolidated joint ventures. In some cases we also present Consolidated NOI on a cash basis, which is Consolidated NOI after eliminating the effects of straight-lining of rent and fair value lease revenue. We use Consolidated NOI internally as a performance measure and believe Consolidated NOI provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations because it reflects only those income and expense items that are incurred at the property level. Therefore, we believe Consolidated NOI is a useful measure for evaluating the operating performance of our real estate assets. Our management also uses Consolidated NOI to evaluate regional property level performance and to make decisions about resource allocations. Further, we believe Consolidated NOI is useful to investors as a performance measure because, when compared across periods, Consolidated NOI reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs and acquisition and development activity on an unleveraged basis, providing perspective not immediately apparent from net income. Consolidated NOI excludes certain components from net income in order to provide results that are more closely related to a property's results of operations. For example, interest expense is not necessarily linked to the operating performance of a real estate asset and is often incurred at the corporate level as opposed to the property level. In addition, depreciation and amortization, because of historical cost accounting and useful life estimates, may distort operating performance at the property level. Consolidated NOI presented by us may not be comparable to Consolidated NOI reported by other REITs that define Consolidated NOI differently. We believe that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of our operating results, Consolidated NOI should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in our consolidated financial statements. Consolidated NOI should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance or to cash flows as a measure of our liquidity or ability to make distributions.
Combined Net Operating Income (NOI)
Combined NOI is a non-GAAP financial measure equal to Consolidated NOI plus our share of net operating income from unconsolidated joint ventures. In some cases we also present Combined NOI on a cash basis, which is Combined NOI after eliminating the effects of straight-lining of rent and fair value lease revenue. In addition to Consolidated NOI, we use Combined NOI internally as a performance measure and believe Combined NOI provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations because it includes the impact of our unconsolidated joint ventures, which have become significant. Therefore, we believe Combined NOI is a useful measure for evaluating the operating performance of all of our real estate assets, including those held by our unconsolidated joint ventures. Our management also uses Combined NOI to evaluate regional property level performance and to make decisions about resource allocations. Further, like Consolidated NOI, we believe Combined NOI is useful to investors as a performance measure because, when compared across periods, Combined NOI reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs and acquisition and development activity on an unleveraged basis, providing perspective not immediately apparent from net income. Combined NOI presented by us may not be comparable to Combined NOI reported by other REITs that define Combined NOI differently. We believe that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of our operating results, Combined NOI should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in our consolidated financial statements. Combined NOI should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance or to cash flows as a measure of our liquidity or ability to make distributions.
Portfolio Net Operating Income (NOI)
Portfolio NOI is a non-GAAP financial measure equal to Combined NOI less our share of net operating income from the Value-Added Fund in recognition of the fact that we do not include non-core office properties held by the fund in the Company's portfolio information tables or other portfolio level statistics because they have deficiencies in property characteristics which provide opportunity to create value. In some cases we also present Portfolio NOI on a cash basis, which is Portfolio NOI after eliminating the effects of straight-lining of rent and fair value lease revenue. In addition to Consolidated NOI and Combined NOI, we use Portfolio NOI internally as a performance measure and believe Portfolio NOI provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations because it includes the impact of our unconsolidated joint ventures, which have become significant, but excludes the impact of the Value-Added Fund. Therefore, we believe Portfolio NOI is a useful measure for evaluating the operating performance of our active portfolio, including both consolidated assets and those held by our unconsolidated joint ventures. Our management also uses Portfolio NOI to evaluate regional property level performance and to make decisions about resource allocations. Further, like Consolidated NOI and Combined NOI, we believe Portfolio NOI is useful to investors as a performance measure because, when compared across periods, Portfolio NOI reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs and acquisition and development activity on an unleveraged basis, providing perspective not immediately apparent from net income. Portfolio NOI presented by us may not be comparable to Portfolio NOI reported by other REITs that define Portfolio NOI differently. We believe that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of our operating results, Portfolio NOI should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented in our consolidated financial statements. Portfolio NOI should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance or to cash flows as a measure of our liquidity or ability to make distributions.
In-Service Properties
We treat a property as being "in-service" upon the earlier of (i) lease-up and completion of tenant improvements or (ii) one year after cessation of major construction activity under GAAP. The determination as to when a property should be treated as "in-service" involves a degree of judgment and is made by management based on the relevant facts and circumstances of the particular property. For portfolio operating and occupancy statistics we specify a single date for treating a property as "in-service" which is generally later than the date the property is placed in-service for GAAP. Under GAAP a property may be placed in service in stages as construction is completed and the property is held available for occupancy. In accordance with GAAP, when a portion of a property has been substantially completed and occupied or held available for occupancy, we cease capitalization on that portion, though we may not treat the property as being "in-service," and continue to capitalize only those costs associated with the portion still under construction. In-service properties include properties held by our unconsolidated joint ventures (other than the Value-Added Fund).
Same Properties
In our analysis of NOI, particularly to make comparisons of NOI between periods meaningful, it is important to provide information for properties that were in-service and owned by us throughout each period presented. We refer to properties acquired or placed in-service prior to the beginning of the earliest period presented and owned by us through the end of the latest period presented as "Same Properties." "Same Properties" therefore exclude properties placed in-service, acquired or repositioned after the beginning of the earliest period presented or disposed of prior to the end of the latest period presented. Accordingly, it takes at least one year and one quarter after a property is acquired or treated as "in-service" for that property to be included in "Same Properties." Pages 20-22 indicate by footnote the "In-Service Properties" which are not included in "Same Properties." "Same Properties NOI" includes our share of net operating income from unconsolidated joint ventures (other than the Value-Added Fund).
Annualized Revenue
Rental obligations at the end of the reporting period, including contractual base rents and reimbursements from tenants under existing leases, multiplied by twelve. These annualized amounts exclude rent abatements.
Future Annualized Revenue
Rental obligations including contractual base rents at lease expiration and reimbursements from tenants at the end of the current reporting period, multiplied by twelve. These annualized amounts exclude rent abatements.
 

Exhibit 99.2
news
800 Boylston Street
Boston, MA 02199
AT THE COMPANY
Michael Walsh
Senior Vice President, Finance
(617) 236-3410
Arista Joyner
Investor Relations Manager
(617) 236-3343
, a real estate investment trust, reported results today for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011.
BOSTON, MA, May 2, 2011  Boston Properties, Inc. (NYSE: BXP)
Funds from Operations (FFO) for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 were $160.0 million, or $1.13 per share basic and $1.12 per share diluted. This compares to FFO for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 of $149.6 million, or $1.08 per share basic and $1.07 per share diluted. FFO for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 includes income of $0.05 per share on a diluted basis related to the termination of a lease resulting from the suspension of construction on the Company's 250 West 55th Street development project in New York City. The weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding totaled 142,094,867 and 143,965,007, respectively, for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 and 138,930,935 and 141,058,014, respectively, for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.
Net income available to common shareholders was $40.8 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, compared to $52.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. Net income available to common shareholders per share (EPS) for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 was $0.29 basic and $0.29 on a diluted basis. This compares to EPS for the first quarter of 2010 of $0.38 basic and $0.38 on a diluted basis.
The reported results are unaudited and there can be no assurance that the results will not vary from the final information for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of these reported results have been made.
As of March 31, 2011, the Company's portfolio consisted of 150 properties, comprised primarily of Class A office space, one hotel, two residential properties and three retail properties, aggregating approximately 40.9 million square feet, including six properties under construction totaling 2.2 million square feet. In addition, the Company has structured parking for vehicles containing approximately 14.7 million square feet. The overall percentage of leased space for the 143 properties in service as of March 31, 2011 was 91.7%.
 
Significant events during the first quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transactions completed subsequent to March 31, 2011:
 
 
 
EPS and FFO per Share Guidance:
The Company's guidance for the second quarter and full year 2011 for EPS (diluted) and FFO per share (diluted) is set forth and reconciled below. Except as described below, the estimates reflect management's view of current and future market conditions, including assumptions with respect to rental rates, occupancy levels and the earnings impact of the events referenced in this release and otherwise referenced during the conference call referred to below. In particular, the estimates include ($0.09) per share dilution resulting from equity issuances under the Company's ATM program and ($0.09) per share dilution from the anticipated sale of Carnegie Center by June 21, 2011, in each case for the full year 2011, but do not include the impact of a potential re-start of construction activities and corresponding capitalization of interest on the Company's 250 West 55
th
Street development site in New York City. The estimates also do not include possible future gains or losses or the impact on operating results from other possible future property acquisitions or dispositions, other possible capital markets activity or possible future impairment charges. EPS estimates may be subject to fluctuations as a result of several factors, including changes in the recognition of depreciation and amortization expense and any gains or losses associated with disposition activity. The Company is not able to assess at this time the potential impact of these factors on projected EPS. By definition, FFO does not include real estate-related depreciation and amortization or gains or losses associated with disposition activities. There can be no assurance that the Company's actual results will not differ materially from the estimates set forth below.
 
 
Boston Properties will host a conference call on Tuesday, May 3, 2011 at 10:00 AM Eastern Time, open to the general public, to discuss the first quarter 2011 results, the 2011 projections and related assumptions, and other related matters that may be of interest to investors. The number to call for this interactive teleconference is (877) 706-4503 (Domestic) or (281) 913-8731 (International) and entering the passcode 54693985. A replay of the conference call will be available through May 17, 2011, by dialing (800) 642-1687 (Domestic) or (706) 645-9291 (International) and entering the passcode 54693985. There will also be a live audio webcast of the call which may be accessed on the Company's website at in the Investor Relations section. Shortly after the call a replay of the webcast will be available in the Investor Relations section of the Company's website and archived for up to twelve months following the call.
www.bostonproperties.com
Additionally, a copy of Boston Properties' first quarter 2011 "Supplemental Operating and Financial Data" and this press release are available in the Investor Relations section of the Company's website at.
www.bostonproperties.com
Boston Properties is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust that develops, redevelops, acquires, manages, operates and owns a diverse portfolio of Class A office space, one hotel, two residential properties and three retail properties. The Company is one of the largest owners and developers of Class A office properties in the United States, concentrated in five markets  Boston, Midtown Manhattan, Washington, DC, San Francisco and Princeton, NJ.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal securities laws. You can identify these statements by our use of the words "assumes," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "guidance," "intends," "plans," "projects" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. You should exercise caution in interpreting and relying on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond Boston Properties' control and could materially affect actual results, performance or achievements. These factors include, without limitation, the Company's ability to satisfy the closing conditions to the pending transactions described above, the ability to enter into new leases or renew leases on favorable terms, dependence on tenants' financial condition, the uncertainties of real estate development, acquisition and disposition activity, the ability to effectively integrate acquisitions, the costs and availability of financing, the effectiveness of our interest rate hedging contracts, the ability of our joint venture partners to satisfy their obligations, the effects of local economic and market conditions, the effects of acquisitions, dispositions and possible impairment charges on our operating results, the impact of newly adopted accounting principles on the Company's accounting policies and on period-to-period comparisons of financial results, regulatory changes and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Boston Properties does not undertake a duty to update or revise any forward-looking statement, including its guidance for the second quarter and full fiscal year 2011, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
Our computation of FFO may not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs or real estate companies that do not define the term in accordance with the current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT definition differently.
FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income attributable to Boston Properties, Inc. (determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indication of our performance. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP, and is not a measure of liquidity or an indicator of our ability to make cash distributions. We believe that to further understand our performance, FFO should be compared with our reported net income attributable to Boston Properties, Inc. and considered in addition to cash flows in accordance with GAAP, as presented in our consolidated financial statements.
 
 


