FILE:BXP/BXP-8K-20110519144844.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Boston Properties, Inc. (the "Company") held its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders (the "2011 Annual Meeting") on May 17, 2011. At the 2011 Annual Meeting, the stockholders were asked to (1) elect Lawrence S. Bacow, Zo Baird, Alan J. Patricof and Martin Turchin to the Company's Board of Directors, (2) cast an advisory vote on named executive officer compensation, as described in the Company's proxy statement, (3) cast an advisory vote on the frequency of holding the advisory vote on named executive officer compensation, (4) ratify the Audit Committee's appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ("PWC") as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011 and (5) vote on a stockholder proposal concerning the preparation of a sustainability report.
The stockholders elected all four director nominees, approved the advisory resolution on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers, approved a frequency of every year for the advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers and ratified the appointment of PWC as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011. The stockholder proposal did not receive the affirmative vote of a majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy at the 2011 Annual Meeting and entitled to vote and, as a result, was not approved.
The Company currently intends to hold an advisory vote on the compensation of its named executive officers every year until the next required advisory vote on the frequency of holding the advisory vote on named executive officer compensation.
The following is a statement of the number of votes cast for or against each matter or director nominee, as applicable, and with respect to the non-binding, advisory vote on the frequency of holding the advisory vote on named executive officer compensation, the number of votes cast for a frequency of every year, every two years and every three years. In addition, the following also sets forth the number of abstentions and broker non-votes with respect to each matter or director nominee, as applicable.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


