Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This report contains forward looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new product and service introductions, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from continuing operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and the divestiture of our semiconductor products and semiconductor test businesses, our stock repurchase program, our transition to lower cost regions, the existence or length of an economic recovery that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed in Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Reclassifications Amounts in the consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended October 31, 2005 and October 31, 2004 have been reclassified to conform to the presentation used in 2006. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations of our Semiconductor Products Business" and Note 4, "Discontinued Operations of our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business", to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the reclassification of financial information for discontinued operations. See Note 7, "Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliate and Gain on Sale Lumileds" to our consolidated financial statements for reclassification of equity in net income. Overview and Executive Summary Agilent, incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is the worlds premier measurement company, providing core bio analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. Prior to our initial public offering of 16 percent of our stock in November 1999, we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Hewlett Packard Company ("HP"). HP distributed the remaining 84 percent of our stock to its stockholders on June 2, 2000 in the form of a stock dividend. Our fiscal year end is October 31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year. Agilent currently has two businesses focused on bio analytical measurement and electronic measurement. During the past year, we divested two of our historical businesses, the semiconductor products business and the semiconductor test solutions business. In December 2005, we sold the semiconductor products business and recorded a gain of approximately $1.8 billion. In October 2006, we completed the distribution to our stockholders of our semiconductor test solutions business. We have reflected both the semiconductor products business and the semiconductor test solutions business as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 33 Agilents net revenue from continuing operations in 2006 was $4,973 million, an increase of 6 percent in comparison to 2005. In our bio analytical business, net revenue in 2006 increased 9 percent in comparison to 2005. Demand increased across all markets in bio analytical measurement with strongest growth occurring in biotechnology solutions. In our electronic measurement business, net revenue in 2006 increased 5 percent in comparison to 2005. The electronic measurement business saw growth in our general purpose segments, led by aerospace /defense and semiconductor design and manufacturing. Agilents total net revenue in 2005 increased 3 percent in comparison to 2004. Net income in 2006 was $3,307 million, which included the income from and gain on sale of our semiconductor products business for $1,816 million and the sale of our investment in Lumileds for a gain of $901 million. Net income in 2005 was $327 million, a decrease of 11 percent in comparison to $369 million in 2004. The decrease in total net income for 2005 was driven by a $174 million decrease in net income associated with discontinued operations offset by a $132 million increase in net income from continuing operations. In 2006, we generated operating cash flows of $431 million and had a cash and cash equivalent balance as of October 31, 2006 of $2,262 million. In 2005, we generated operating cash flows of $656 million and had a cash and cash equivalent balance as of October 31, 2005 of $2,226 million. The following significant events were accomplished in fiscal year 2006: In November 2005, we finalized the sale of our investment in Lumileds to Philips for $949 million plus the repayment of $51 million of the outstanding principal debt and interest due to us. In December 2005, we sold our semiconductor products business to Avago. We received approximately $2.6 billion in cash proceeds. In October 2006, we completed the spin off of our semiconductor test solutions business. The aggregate market value of ordinary shares distributed to Agilent stockholders was approximately $840 million. In June 2006, we completed a stock repurchase program of $4.466 billion of our common stock and in September 2006 we commenced another stock repurchase program for up to $2.0 billion dollars, to be completed over the next 2 years. We completed the actions necessary to reduce our infrastructure costs by approximately $450 million. Having completed the disposal of two semiconductor related businesses, Agilent is less exposed to the highly cyclical semiconductor market. Therefore, we expect that Agilents current operating model will experience lower cyclicality in revenue and costs than we experienced in prior years. Looking forward, we are mindful of the economic uncertainties in the year ahead and Agilents focus is to leverage, through higher sustainable growth, the more stable operating model weve built. Our goal is to grow our revenue at a faster rate than the electronic measurement and bio analytical measurement markets, primarily through increasing market share and complementary acquisitions which will add to our top line growth. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although 34 these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, restructuring and asset impairment charges, inventory valuation, investment impairments, share based compensation, retirement and post retirement plan assumptions, valuation of long lived assets and accounting for income taxes. Revenue recognition. We enter into agreements to sell products (hardware or software), services, and other arrangements (multiple element arrangements) that include combinations of products and services. Revenue from product sales, net of trade discounts and allowances, is recognized provided that persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer. Revenue is reduced for estimated product returns, when appropriate. For sales that include customer specified acceptance criteria, revenue is recognized after the acceptance criteria have been met. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, product revenue is recognized upon delivery, and recognition of installation revenue occurs when the installation is complete. Otherwise, neither the product nor the installation revenue is recognized until the installation is complete. Revenue from services is deferred and recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. When arrangements include multiple elements, we use objective evidence of fair value to allocate revenue to the elements and recognize revenue when the criteria for revenue recognition have been met for each element. The amount of product revenue recognized is affected by our judgments as to whether an arrangement includes multiple elements and if so, whether vendor specific objective evidence of fair value exists for those elements. Changes to the elements in an arrangement and the ability to establish vendor specific objective evidence for those elements could affect the timing of the revenue recognition. Most of these conditions are subjective and actual results could vary from the estimated outcome, requiring future adjustments to revenue. Restructuring and asset impairment charges. The three main components of our restructuring plans are related to workforce reductions, the consolidation of excess facilities and asset impairments. Workforce reduction charges are accrued when it is determined that a liability has been incurred, which is generally after individuals have been notified of their termination dates and expected severance payments. Plans to consolidate excess facilities result in charges for lease termination fees and future commitments to pay lease charges, net of estimated future sublease income. We recognize charges for consolidation of excess facilities when we have vacated the premises. These estimates were derived using the guidance of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets" ("SFAS No. 144"), Staff Accounting Bulletin 100, "Restructuring and Impairment Charges" ("SAB 100"), Emerging Issues Task Force 94 3, "Liability Recognition for Costs to Exit an Activity (Including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)" ("EITF 94 3") and lastly, SFAS No. 146 "Accounting for Exit or Disposal Activities" ("SFAS No. 146"). If the amounts and timing of cash flows from restructuring activities are significantly different from what we have estimated, the actual amount of restructuring and asset impairment charges could be materially different, either higher or lower, than those we have recorded. Inventory valuation. We assess the valuation of our inventory on a quarterly basis and periodically write down the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based upon estimates about future demand and actual usage. Such estimates are difficult to make under most economic conditions. The excess balance determined by this analysis becomes the basis for our excess inventory 35 charge. Our marketing department plays a key role in our excess inventory review process by providing updated sales forecasts, managing product rollovers and working with manufacturing to maximize recovery of excess inventory. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional write downs may be required. If actual market conditions are more favorable than anticipated, inventory previously written down may be sold to customers, resulting in lower cost of sales and higher income from operations than expected in that period. Investment impairments. We recognize an impairment charge when the decline in the fair value of our publicly traded equity securities and our cost method investments below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. Significant judgment is used to identify events or circumstances that would likely have a significant adverse effect on the future use of the investment. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other than temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, forecasted recovery, the financial condition and near term prospects of the investee, and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. Share based compensation. We account for share based awards in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Shared Based Payment ("SFAS No. 123(R)") which was effective November 1, 2005 for Agilent. Under the new standard, share based compensation expense is primarily based on estimated grant date fair value which is generally using the Black Scholes option pricing model and is recognized on a straight line basis for awards granted after November 1, 2005 over the vesting period of the award. For awards issued prior to November 1, 2005, we recognize share based compensation expense based on FASB Interpretation 28 "Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans an interpretation of APB Opinions No. 15 and 25", which provides for accelerated expensing. Our estimate of share based compensation expense requires a number of complex and subjective assumptions including our stock price volatility, employee exercise patterns (expected life of the options), future forfeitures and related tax effects. We consider several factors in estimating the expected life of our options granted, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees, which we believe are representative of future behavior. We estimate the stock price volatility using the implied volatility of Agilents publicly traded stock options. We have determined that implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than a combined method of determining volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share based awards represent our best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, changes in assumptions could materially impact our reported financial results. Retirement and post retirement benefit plan assumptions. Retirement and post retirement benefit plan costs are a significant cost of doing business. They represent obligations that will ultimately be settled sometime in the future and therefore are subject to estimation. Pension accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employees average expected future service to Agilent based on the terms of the plans and investment and funding decisions. To estimate the impact of these future payments and our decisions concerning funding of these obligations, we are required to make assumptions using actuarial concepts within the framework of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Two critical assumptions are the discount rate and the expected long term return on plan assets. Other important assumptions include the health care cost trend rate, expected future salary increases, expected future increases to benefit payments, expected retirement dates, employee turnover, retiree mortality rates, and portfolio composition. We evaluate these assumptions at least annually. 36 The discount rate is used to determine the present value of future benefit payments at the measurement date October 31 for U.S. plans and September 30 for non U.S plans. For U.S. plans, the discount rate was determined by matching the expected plan benefit payments against the cash flows from a hypothetically constructed portfolio of high quality corporate bonds. The average yield of this hypothetical bond portfolio was used as a proxy for setting the discount rate. The discount rate increased slightly over the prior year to 6.0 percent. Lower discount rates increase present values and subsequent year pension expense; higher discount rates decrease present values and subsequent year pension expense. The discount rate for non U.S. plans was generally based on published rates for high quality corporate bonds. In recent years, decreasing interest rates, particularly outside the U.S., have increased our benefit obligations and our net plan costs. These increases have been in large part offset by a declining number of plan participants as a result of our various restructuring programs. The entire impact of declining discount rates is not recognized immediately under current accounting standards. As of October 31, 2006, delayed recognition of the impact of declining discount rates was the primary factor in approximately $297 million in unrecognized actuarial losses for non U.S. plans. These losses are being recognized over the expected average future service lives of plan participants ranging from 12 to 18 years depending on the plan. The expected long term return on plan assets is estimated using current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns. As of October 31, 2006, delayed recognition of better than expected investment performance was a significant factor in $63 million of unrecognized actuarial gains for U.S. plans. These gains will be recognized over approximately 12 years or the expected average future service life for U.S. plan participants. A one percent change in the estimated long term return on plan assets for 2006 would result in a $6 million impact on U.S. pension expense and a $15 million impact on non U.S. pension expense. The net periodic pension and post retirement benefit costs recorded in continuing operations were $81 million in 2006, $106 million in 2005 and $122 million in 2004. Due to final payouts from our Excess Plan in the U.S. in the first quarter of 2007, we expect a settlement under SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. We cannot currently estimate this impact. Valuation of long lived assets. We performed our annual goodwill impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of 2006. Based on our estimates of forecasted discounted cash flows and our market capitalization at that time, we concluded that our goodwill was not impaired. We have also assessed the recoverability of our long lived assets, by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted future cash flows. Asset impairments primarily consist of property, plant and equipment and are based on an estimate of the amounts and timing of future cash flows related to the expected future remaining use and ultimate sale or disposal of buildings and equipment net of costs to sell. During 2006, we incurred $42 million of asset impairment charges, which includes approximately $3 million recorded in discontinued operations. In addition, we recorded $1 million of investment impairment charges during 2006. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles is highly subjective and requires significant judgment. We estimate expected future cash flows of our various businesses, which operate in a number of markets and geographical regions. We then determine the carrying value of these businesses. We exercise judgment in assigning and allocating certain assets and liabilities to these businesses. We then compare the carrying value including goodwill and other intangibles to the discounted future cash flows. If the total of future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. Estimates of the future cash flows associated with the assets are critical to 37 these assessments. Changes in these estimates based on changed economic conditions or business strategies could result in material impairment charges in future periods. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of long lived assets such as our property, plant and equipment is also highly subjective and requires significant judgment. In order to estimate the fair value of long lived assets, we typically make various assumptions about the future prospects for the business that the asset relates to, consider market factors specific to that business and estimate future cash flows to be generated by that business. Based on these assumptions and estimates, we determine whether we need to take an impairment charge to reduce the value of the asset stated on our balance sheet to reflect its estimated fair value. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives are complex and often subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as the real estate market, industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, changes in assumptions and estimates could materially impact our reported financial results. Accounting for income taxes. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in determining whether deferred tax assets will be realized in full or in part. When it is more likely than not that all or some portion of specific deferred tax assets such as net operating losses or foreign tax credit carryforwards will not be realized, a valuation allowance must be established for the amount of the deferred tax assets that cannot be realized. Realization is based on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income. During 2003, we established valuation allowances for the deferred tax assets of the U.S. and selected entities in foreign jurisdictions. The valuation allowance was determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109 which requires an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. Cumulative losses incurred in the U.S. and selected entities in foreign jurisdictions in recent years represented sufficient negative evidence, which made it difficult for positive evidence to overcome. Accordingly, a full valuation allowance was recorded in all instances. We intend to maintain a full valuation allowance until sufficient positive evidence exists to support reversal of the valuation allowance. Profits or losses incurred in the U.S. and selected entities in foreign jurisdictions affect the ongoing amount of the valuation allowance. We expect that the effective tax rate applied to our pre tax income in fiscal 2007 will be lower than it otherwise would be because future income taxes in the U.S. and selected entities in foreign jurisdictions will be offset by adjustments to the valuation allowance to effectively eliminate any tax expense or benefit in those jurisdictions. Income taxes will continue to be recorded for various jurisdictions subject to the need for valuation allowances in those jurisdictions. We have not provided for U.S. federal income and foreign withholding taxes on the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries because we intend to reinvest such earnings indefinitely. Should we decide to remit this income to the U.S. in a future period, our provision for income taxes may increase materially in that period. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax law and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. 38 Restructuring and Asset Impairment We initiated several restructuring plans in prior periods: the 2001 Plan, the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan ("Prior Plans"). The workforce reduction portion of the Prior Plans was completed during fiscal year 2005. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005, due to the then pending divestitures of our semiconductor products and semiconductor test businesses, we launched a new restructuring plan ("2005 Plan") to reduce our workforce and facility footprint to match a smaller organizational size. In 2006 we continued execution of the 2005 plan and recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges of $186 million, of which $111 million was for workforce reduction expenses and the remainder for facility impairment and lease termination expenses. As of October 31, 2006, our accrual for pending workforce reduction costs was $13 million, which is down from the $44 million balance from the prior year as the workforce reduction program winds down. Our accrual for the consolidation of excess facilities, however, increased $9 million from the prior year due to significant facility consolidation efforts that were initiated during the past year. The workforce reduction portion of the 2005 plan is expected to be substantially completed in fiscal year 2007, but we will continue to make lease payments on some of our excess facility space for approximately the next five years. The restructuring accrual is recorded in other accrued liabilities and other long term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. For further details on our restructuring plans, see Note 19, "Restructuring and Asset Impairment", to our consolidated financial statements. Foreign Currency Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short term and anticipated basis. We do experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the consolidated statement of operations and balance sheet because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short term basis (rolling twelve month period). Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. For example, over the last three years the U.S dollar has weakened against the Euro and the British pound and although we successfully hedged currency movements in those currencies each year, we have experienced a net increase in reported expenses in Europe as a result of currency fluctuations over this time period. Results from Continuing Operations The following discussion excludes our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business as their results are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Income from continuing operations in 2006 was $1,437 million, which included the gain on sale of our Lumileds investment of $901 million. In 2005, we recorded $191 million in income from continuing operations compared to $59 million recorded in 2004. 39 Orders and Net Revenue Years Ended October 31, 2006 over 2005 % Change 2005 over 2004 % Change 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Orders $ 5,075 $ 4,773 $ 4,512 6 % 6 % Net revenue: Products $ 4,125 $ 3,854 $ 3,783 7 % 2 % Services and other 848 831 773 2 % 8 % Total net revenue $ 4,973 $ 4,685 $ 4,556 6 % 3 % Years Ended October 31, 2006 over 2005 Ppts Change 2005 over 2004 Ppts Change 2006 2005 2004 % of total net revenue: Products 83 % 82 % 83 % 1 ppt (1) ppt Services and other 17 % 18 % 17 % (1) ppt 1 ppt Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Net revenue in 2006 was $4,973 million, a 6 percent increase over the $4,685 million net revenue recorded in 2005. Net revenue in 2005 was $4,685 million, a 3 percent increase over the $4,556 million net revenue recorded in 2004. Bio analytical measurement results were consistent with our normal seasonal pattern and reflected increased demand across virtually all of our markets. Our bio analytical business is comprised of two areas, life science and chemical analysis. In life science, growth was due to demand from biotechnology customers and the impact of new product introduction in LC, LCMS and microarrays. In chemical analysis growth was driven by demand for environmental and food testing solutions.. Our electronic measurement business saw a 5 percent revenue growth, solid profitability, and good return on invested capital. Growth was driven by underlying customer demand in several key markets, including semiconductor design and verification, and consumer electronics design and manufacturing. However, growth was negatively impacted because of two factors: First, capital spending in the wireline segment was constrained by mergers in the customer base (both NEMs and communication service providers) as well as uncertainty in service providers investments as they transition from fixed line to IP based networks and services. Second, we had a slowdown in our wireless monitoring business, as the industry transitions from 2G to 3G networks amid stronger competition. Services and other revenue includes revenue generated from servicing our installed base of products, warranty extensions and consulting. In 2006 and 2005, services and other revenue increased over the prior years as our installed base of products increased and a change in standard warranty from three years to one year drove a higher volume of extended warranty business. 40 Costs and Expenses Years Ended October 31, 2006 over 2005 Change 2005 over 2004 Change 2006 2005 2004 Gross margin on products 56 % 53 % 49 % 3 ppts 4 ppts Gross margin on services and other 39 % 39 % 41 % (2) ppts Total gross margin 53 % 50 % 47 % 3 ppts 3 ppts Operating margin 9 % 5 % 1 % 4 ppts 4 ppts Research and development $ 655 $ 650 $ 599 1% 9% Selling, general and administrative $ 1,660 $ 1,498 $ 1,502 11% The following tables present the gross inventory charges and sales of previously reserved inventory, respectively: Gross Inventory Charges Years Ended October 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Bio analytical measurement $ 8 $ 4 $ 3 Electronic measurement 29 40 13 Unallocated charges and other (1) 1 15 Total $ 38 $ 59 $ 16 Sales of Previously Reserved Inventory Years Ended October 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Bio analytical measurement $ 1 $ 3 Electronic measurement 14 7 9 Total $ 14 $ 8 $ 12 (1)Unallocated charges primarily relate to inventory write downs for exited product lines, which management has not reflected in segment results. In 2006, total gross margin increased 3 percentage points in comparison to 2005. This improvement was the result of volume increases and cost efficiencies, in particular, restructuring activities, material cost reductions and overall operational improvements. In addition, we benefited from the refunctionalization of some general corporate expenses out of costs of products and services and into operating expense, which is consistent with our current less manufacturing intensive operations following the disposal of our semiconductor products and semiconductor test solutions businesses. In 2005, total gross margin increased 3 percentage points in comparison to 2004. The increase was attributable to our efforts to lower our cost structure and refine our operating model. In 2005, we benefited from a more variable cost structure through use of contract manufacturers and we reduced manufacturing costs by shifting production to lower cost regions. These benefits continued through 2006. 41  Operating margins in 2006 increased 4 percentage points as compared to 2005 due to continued restructuring activities and tighter controls on spending. In 2005 operating margin increased 4 percentage points compared to 2004. This was primarily due to savings from our restructuring efforts and a decrease in restructuring costs for research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses in 2005 compared to 2004. Our research and development efforts focus on potential new products and product improvements covering a wide variety of technologies, none of which is individually significant to our operations. We conduct five types of research and development: basic research, which contributes to the fundamental understanding of areas critical to our future; foundation technologies, which enables fundamental advances across all businesses; communications, which creates technologies to enable pervasive access to information; life sciences, which enables next generation pharmaceuticals and improved patient outcomes; and measurement, which provides critical advances in test and measurement electronics and systems. Our research seeks to improve on various technical competencies in electronics such as compound semiconductor devices, digital imaging systems and microfabrication technologies; software, systems and solutions such as applied mathematics, knowledge management and measurement science; life sciences such as computational biology, molecular diagnostics and high throughput measurements; and photonics, such as precision automation technology, optical switching and high speed optical links. In each of these research fields, we conduct research that is focused on specific product development for release in the short term as well as other research that is intended to be the foundation for future products over a longer time horizon. Some of our product development research is designed to improve on the more than 20,000 products already in production, other research is on major new product releases, and yet other focused on developing new product segments for the future. Because of the large number of new and existing products and research and development projects across all of our businesses, it is difficult to quantify the impact of any specific products or projects either in the periods presented or on a forward looking basis. Income from continuing operations in 2006 was $1,437 million, which includes a gain of $901 million for the sale of our investment in Lumileds, an equity investment. The remaining increase in income from continuing operations, in comparison to the prior year, is attributable to an increase in revenue of $288 million, an increase in net interest income of $64 million and also attributable to the gain recorded in connection with the sale of two properties located in California for a net gain of approximately $121 million. Income from continuing operations in 2005 was $191 million, an increase of approximately $132 million in comparison to 2004. The increase was primarily driven by reduction in costs and expenses due to the incremental benefits of our restructuring programs and discretionary spending controls. At October 31, 2006, our headcount, on a continuing operations basis, was approximately 18,700 compared to 19,400 in 2005 and 19,800 in 2004. The decrease in workforce is predominantly due to infrastructure reduction in light of the recent business divestitures. Provision for Income Taxes from Continuing Operations Years Ended October 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Provision for income taxes $ 91 $ 142 $ 57 For the year ended October 31, 2006, we recorded an income tax provision of $91 million on continuing operations as compared with an income tax provision of $142 million and $57 million on 42 continuing operations for the years ended October 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The 2006 provision was recorded for taxes on income generated in jurisdictions other than the U.S. Income generated in the U.S. and, to a much lesser extent, losses incurred in certain foreign jurisdictions were offset by adjustments to their respective valuation allowances. The income tax provision also includes a benefit of $29 million related to the resolution of domestic tax related issues for years covered by a Tax Sharing Agreement between Agilent and Hewlett Packard. The Tax Sharing Agreement is related to the 2000 spin off of Agilent from Hewlett Packard. For 2006, the annual effective tax rate was 6.0 percent on continuing operations. The 6.0 percent continuing operations tax rate reflects taxes on the sale of our Lumileds joint venture at an effective tax rate of zero in the U.S. (due to the operation of the valuation allowance) and at low effective tax rates in other jurisdictions. In addition, the low continuing operations tax rate is a result of the $29 million benefit related to the resolution of issues covered by a Tax Sharing Agreement between Agilent and Hewlett Packard. The tax rate for continuing operations does not include the impact of income from low tax jurisdictions generated by our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business which are now reported as discontinued operations. For 2005, the annual effective tax rate was 42.6 percent on continuing operations. This tax rate for continuing operations does not include the impact of income from low tax jurisdictions generated by our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business which are now reported as discontinued operations. Additionally, the repatriation tax of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("AJCA") caused a 7.2 percent increase in the 2005 effective tax rate as during 2005 we decided to repatriate earnings on which we had not previously provided U.S. taxes. For 2004, the annual effective tax rate was 49.1 percent on continuing operations. This tax rate for continuing operations does not include the impact of income from low tax jurisdictions generated by our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business which are now reported as discontinued operations. In addition, non deductible goodwill increased the rate by 5.6 percent. On October 22, 2004, the AJCA was signed into law. The AJCA created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85 percent dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we distributed cash from our foreign subsidiaries and reported an extraordinary dividend (as defined in the AJCA) of $970 million and a related tax liability of approximately $48 million in our fiscal 2005 federal income tax return. For 2005, $23 million of the $48 million is provided for in the discontinued operations provision for income taxes, while the remaining is provided for in the continuing operations provision for income taxes. Agilent enjoys tax holidays in several different jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore, Malaysia and Switzerland. The tax holidays provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require various thresholds of investments and employment in those jurisdictions. As a result of the incentives, the impact of the tax holidays decreased income taxes by $76 million, $54 million and $96 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. It is anticipated that these tax holidays will benefit Agilent in a similar way in 2007. During 2003, we established valuation allowances for the deferred tax assets of the U.S. and selected entities in foreign jurisdictions. The valuation allowances were determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109 which require an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. Cumulative losses incurred in the 43 U.S and certain entities in foreign jurisdictions in recent years represented sufficient negative evidence under SFAS No. 109 to require full valuation allowances. We intend to maintain full valuation allowances until sufficient positive evidence exists to support the reversal. In connection with an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit of our U.S. federal income tax returns for 2000 through 2002, we received a Notice of Proposed Adjustment (NOPA) in October 2006 in which the IRS claims significant increases to our U.S. taxable income which could result in a commensurate increase in our U.S. income taxes payable. This claim relates to the use of Agilents brand name by our foreign affiliates. We expect to receive a Revenue Agents Report (RAR) with respect to this claim in due course in which we anticipate the IRS will assert a significant aggregate tax deficiency, plus interest and possible penalties. We believe that the claimed IRS adjustments are inconsistent with applicable tax laws and that the chances of the IRS prevailing on the claim are remote. Accordingly, we will oppose the claimed adjustments vigorously. In accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies", we have not accrued an income tax liability in our October 31, 2006 financial statements as we believe the possibility that the IRS will be successful in its claim for the adjustment is remote. For all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliate and Gain on Sale Lumileds Lumileds was a global joint venture between Agilent and KoninklijkePhilips Electronics N.V.("Philips"). Lumileds manufactures high power light emitting diodes and solid state lighting solutions. Agilent sold its interest in Lumileds on November 28, 2005. Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, upon closure of the sale transaction, the Joint Venture Agreement and the ancillary agreements were terminated. The purchase price paid by Philips under the Share Purchase Agreement was $949 million. In addition, Lumileds repaid the $51 million of outstanding principal debt and accrued interest under the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2001. Our equity in the net income of our unconsolidated affiliate including the gain on sale of our interest in Lumileds was $901 million in 2006, $42 million in 2005 and $29 million in 2004. General Infrastructure and Shared Services For Agilent overall, in response to the divestiture and spin off of our semiconductor businesses, we have decreased our infrastructure costs primarily through restructuring programs and streamlining our operations. We have reduced the number of employees in our workforce that provide support services such as finance, IT and workplace services and moved many of our global shared services operations sites to lower cost regions. In 2006, savings for infrastructure costs associated with restructuring plans, IT data center and networking costs, IT project investments and cost controls were approximately $280 million compared with 2005. We passed these savings on to all our businesses according to usage of related services. The general infrastructure and shared services functions ended 2006 with approximately 2,750 employees, a decrease of approximately 1,160 employees from one year ago and a decrease of approximately 1,300 employees from two years ago. Over the past two years, general infrastructure and shared services headcount has dropped by approximately 1,190 people in the U.S. and Europe and has also dropped by approximately 110 people in Asia. Although reductions in infrastructure costs are largely complete as we have divested our 44 semiconductor products business and spun off our semiconductor test solutions business, we expect that a few key infrastructure areas such as IT and workplace services will continue to see savings in the next fiscal year. Segment Overview During 2006, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business and spin off of our semiconductor test solutions business See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Products Business" and Note 4, "Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business" to our consolidated financial statements for further information. With this reorganization, Agilent has two businesses bio analytical measurement and electronic measurement. In addition to the discussion below, also see Note 23, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements. Electronic Measurement Our electronic measurement business provides standard and customized solutions that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronic equipment and systems and communications networks and services. Orders and Net Revenue Years Ended October 31, 2006 over 2005 Change 2005 over 2004 Change 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Orders $ 3,447 $ 3,282 $ 3,180 5 % 3 % Net revenue from products $ 2,914 $ 2,758 $ 2,752 6 % Net revenue from services and other 505 507 473 7 % Total net revenue $ 3,419 $ 3,265 $ 3,225 5 % 1 % The order and revenue information below reflects a characterization using a new methodology for defining "communications test" and "general purpose test" as the markets into which our products are sold. This is a change from our previous classification method which relied on product type as the primary classification mechanism. Compared to 2005, electronic measurement experienced a 5 percent increase in orders. Order growth was driven by strength in electronic manufacturing test, wireless component test, and signal sources for both aerospace/defense and wireless communication applications. The 3 percent increase in orders in 2005 compared to 2004 was related to significant growth in our wireline communications test businesses while wireless communications test orders grew only slightly in that period. Electronic measurement revenues were up 5 percent year over year in 2006 mainly attributable to increased volumes. Communications test made up approximately 43 percent of the electronic measurement revenues for the year, and wireless test made up approximately 82 percent of communications test. Communication test revenues were down 3 percent year over year, with a 14 percent year over year decline in wireline test and wireless test flat to last year. The decline in wireline test was driven by weakness in the router test and network monitoring businesses, while growth in wireless design software and wireless R&D were offset by weakness in the wireless network monitoring market. General purpose test revenues grew 11 percent over 2005, with strength in semiconductor design and verification, aerospace/defense and consumer electronic manufacturing 45 applications. In 2005 segment revenues increased 1 percent compared to 2004 due to the strength of our signal analyzers and signal generator related products, telecom service provider network integration and next generation IP services. Looking forward to 2007, we anticipate revenue growth to be driven by opportunities tied to the continued development and deployment of multi media (voice, data, audio, video) wireless services, proliferation of broadband and triple play wireline offerings, expansion of the breadth of our product offerings, and growth in nanotechnology applications. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the electronic measurement businesss margins, expenses and income from operations for 2006 versus 2005 and 2005 versus 2004. Years Ended October 31, 2006 over 2005 Change 2005 over 2004 Change 2006 2005 2004 Total gross margin 56 % 53 % 51 % 3 ppts 2 ppts Operating margin 14 % 11 % 9 % 3 ppts 2 ppts Research and development $ 463 $ 450 $ 426 3% 6% Selling, general and administrative $ 981 $ 926 $ 940 6% (1)% Income from operations $ 479 $ 360 $ 279 33% 29% Over the past three years, we have implemented cost reduction and restructuring plans to help lower our cost structure. Our electronic measurement business ended 2006 with approximately 11,850 employees, an increase of approximately 400 employees from one year ago. The increase in workforce has occurred primarily in lower cost geographies. Gross margin for products and services increased 3 percentage points year over year in 2006. Gross margin for products and services increased 2 percentage points in 2005 compared to 2004. The improvement for all periods were driven by some volume increases and also by restructuring activities, material cost reductions, lower inventory charges and overall operational improvements. Operating margin increased 3 percentage points in 2006 compared to 2005, with improved gross margins driving almost all of the change. Operating margin increased 2 percentage points in 2005 compared to 2004, and was driven by savings in selling, general and administrative expenses offset by increases in research and development expenditure. Income from Operations Income from operations increased in 2006 by $119 million compared to 2005 on a revenue increase of $154 million. Restructuring through selective workforce reductions, reductions in our cost structure, improved material costs, lower inventory charges and overall operational improvements helped comparative operating results, with most of the improvement coming from better gross margins. In absolute dollars cost of sales was down 2 percent from 2005 while revenue increased by 5 percent over the same period. Income from operations increased in 2005 by $81 million compared to 2004 on a revenue increase of $40 million. Restructuring through workforce reductions, reduction in our cost structure and discretionary spending controls helped comparative operating results. 46 Bio analytical Measurement Our bio analytical measurement business provides application focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our seven key product categories include: microarrays, microfluidics, gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, software and informatics, and related consumables, reagents and services. The business continued to achieve solid growth in 2006, with both orders and revenue growing by 9 percent, compared to 2005, and operating income up 22 percent. All seven key product categories contributed to the overall growth of the bio analytical measurement segment. In 2005 sustained growth was recorded compared to 2004 with orders and net revenue increasing by 12 percent and 7 percent respectively and operating income up 6 percent. Orders and Net Revenue Years Ended October 31, 2006 over 2005 Change 2005 over 2004 Change 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Orders $ 1,628 $ 1,491 $ 1,332 9 % 12 % Net revenue from products $ 1,211 $ 1,096 $ 1,034 10 % 6 % Net revenue from services and other $ 343 325 299 6 % 9 % Total net revenue $ 1,554 $ 1,421 $ 1,333 9 % 7 % Bio analytical measurement business orders continued to grow, achieving record levels in 2006. In both 2005 and 2006, growth was achieved in all geographies, with the highest rates achieved in Asia and Europe. Results were consistent with our normal seasonal pattern and reflected strong demand across virtually all of our markets. Chemical analysis orders, representing approximately 57 percent of bio analytical measurement, grew 8 percent in 2006 compared to 2005. During the year, we continued to see strength from the food and environmental segments due to increased testing demands from new regulations enacted in Europe and Asia, particularly China and India. These regulatory changes led to strong demand for our gas chromatography, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry solutions that are used for food and environmental testing. Also new products such as the triple quadrupole ("QQQ") mass spectrometer which sell into these segments were well received. In addition, higher average oil prices for the year continue to drive demand for our instrumentation in the hydrocarbon processing and petrochemical industries. Chemical analysis orders grew 11 percent in 2005 compared to 2004 driven by demand for environmental testing solutions in Asia and strength in US Government spending relating to homeland security. Life science orders, representing approximately 43 percent of bio analytical measurement, grew 11 percent for the 2006 year compared to 2005. This double digit growth was aided by the broad and rapid acceptance of recently introduced products such as the 1200 rapid resolution liquid chromatograph, QQQ mass spectrometer, new liquid chromatography columns, and new microarrays. During the year, we saw strong demand from contract research organizations and generic drug manufacturers in Europe and Asia, which helped offset a mostly soft spending year for large pharmaceuticals in the Americas region. Life science orders grew 14 percent in 2005 compared to 2004 driven primarily by biotechnology and increased demand from generic drug manufacture. 47 Revenues for the year grew 9 percent in 2006 compared to 2005. Both chemical analysis and life sciences had solid annual growth finishing the year at 9 percent and 10 percent respectively. Chemical analysis continues to see strong demand for our food and environmental testing solutions, which use instruments in the areas of liquid and gas chromatography and gas chromatography mass spectrometry. In life sciences, demand from contract research organizations and generic drug manufacturers for product such as microarrays, liquid and gas chromatography mass spectrometry products contributed to this segments growth. In 2005, chemical analysis grew 5 percent compared to 2004, with most of this growth driven by increasing environmental testing in Asia, while in life science; this segment grew 9 percent, as growth in this segment was driven by increased demand from generic drug manufacturers. Looking forward to 2007, we anticipate order and revenue to grow from 2006 levels, with strength across both our chemical analysis and life science businesses. We anticipate growth to be driven by recently released products such as rapid resolution liquid chromatography, enhanced single quadrupole liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry, QQQ, mass spectrometer, and quadrupole time of flight ("QTOF") mass spectrometry systems. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the bio analytical measurement businesss margins, expenses and income from operations for 2006 versus 2005, and 2005 versus 2004. Years Ended October 31, 2006 over 2005 Change 2005 over 2004 Change 2006 2005 2004 Total gross margin 52 % 50 % 48 % 2 ppts 2 ppts Operating margin 15 % 14 % 14 % 1 ppt Research and development $ 143 $ 136 $ 117 5% 16% Selling, general and administrative $ 430 $ 377 $ 342 14% 10% Income from operations $ 240 $ 197 $ 186 22% 6% Gross margin in 2006 from products and services increased 2 percentage points compared to the same period last year. The improvement in gross margin was driven by increased revenue, manufacturing overhead efficiencies, and a decrease in general infrastructure costs. Gross margins increased by 2 percentage points in 2005 compared with 2004 due to revenue growth, improved microarray production processes, and increased efficiencies in support delivery. Research and development expenses in 2006 increased by 5 percent compared to the same period last year. This increase is due to continued investment in life sciences, increase in headcount from acquisitions, program spending to support our new product releases for this year, and higher general infrastructure costs. Research and development costs increased by 16 percent in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to investment to support new product introductions, acquisition activity and Life Science businesses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses in 2006 increased 14 percent compared to the same period last year. This is due to higher employee related costs, incremental headcount from acquisitions, product launch expense to support new product releases, and higher general infrastructure costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by 10 percent in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to increased infrastructure costs and integration expenses to support acquisitions. 48 Operating margins increased by 1 percentage point in 2006 compared to 2005. This is due to higher revenues and operational efficiencies offsetting the higher investments we made in research and development and selling, general, and administrative to accommodate growth. In 2005, operating margins were flat compared to 2004, as we heavily invested in research and development and small headcount increases in selling, general, and administrative to support growth. Income from Operations Income from operations increased 22 percent in 2006 compared to 2005 due to increased revenue and operational efficiencies that offset higher investments and higher general infrastructure costs that were made in research and development and selling, general, and administrative to support our growth. Operating income increased 6 percent in 2005 compared to 2004 due to increased revenue. Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Products Business On December 1, 2005, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business to Avago Technologies Ltd. ("Avago"). Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement ("APA"), Agilent received approximately $2.6 billion in cash proceeds. For further information, see Note 3, "Discontinued Operations of our Semiconductor Products Business", to our consolidated financial statements. Discontinued operations results for our semiconductor products business for the past three years, including the gain from sale in the year ended October 31, 2006, are summarized in the table below. In the year ended October 31, 2005, the results include the camera module business, which was sold in February 2005. Years Ended October 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Net revenue $ 141 $ 1,796 $ 2,021 Costs, expenses and other income (expense), net 133 1,564 1,779 Income from discontinued operations 8 232 242 Gain on sale of discontinued operations 1,816 Income from and gain on sale of discontinued operations before taxes 1,824 232 242 Provision for taxes 8 46 Income from and gain on sale of discontinued operations, net $ 1,816 $ 186 $ 242 Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business On August 15, 2005, Agilent announced its intention to separate its semiconductor test solutions business, Verigy, into a stand alone publicly traded company. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, Verigy completed the initial public offering ("IPO") of 8.7 million of its ordinary shares at a price of $15 per share for total net proceeds of $121 million. As part of the offering, Agilent made a payment to Verigy of $19 million, the amount by which the net IPO proceeds were insufficient to complete the agreed upon Verigy initial capitalization of $140 million. As a result of the IPO, Agilent recorded additional paid in capital of $74 million related to the excess of the IPO price over the book value of the shares sold. Following the offering, Agilent owned 50 million shares or approximately 85 percent of Verigys ordinary shares. 49 On October 31, 2006, Agilent completed the spin off of Verigy by distributing its remaining 85 percent equity interest in Verigy to Agilent stockholders. The spin off was effected by way of a pro rata non cash dividend to Agilent stockholders, which reduced retained earnings by $310 million. In the distribution, Agilent distributed to its stockholders .122435 of an ordinary share of Verigy for each outstanding share of Agilent common stock owned as of close of market on October 16, 2006. In the aggregate, Agilent distributed 50 million Verigy ordinary shares to Agilent stockholders. Based on the closing price for Verigy ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on October 31, 2006 of $16.80 per share, the aggregate market value of the shares distributed in the distribution was $840 million. The historical results of Verigy have been reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. For further information, see Note 4, "Discontinued Operations of our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business", to our consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes results from discontinued operations for the presented periods ended October 31 included in the consolidated statement of operations: Years Ended October 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Net revenue $ 777 $ 454 $ 604 Costs and expenses 703 489 522 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 74 (35 ) 82 Other income (expense), net (2 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations before taxes 74 (37 ) 82 Provision for taxes 20 13 14 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations $ 54 $ (50 ) $ 68 Indemnifications In connection with the divestitures of our semiconductor products and semiconductor test businesses in 2006, we have provided indemnities to Verigy and Avago against certain damages which they might incur related to the businesses of Agilent not transferred to them and other defined categories of liability. These new indemnity obligations are in addition to preexisting indemnities to Hewlett Packard in connection with our activities prior to our spin off from HP; indemnities to our officers and directors for certain liabilities which they might incur as a result of their service to Agilent; and other indemnifications which are customary in our industry or provided for in local law in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in connection with our commercial operations. These indemnities are described in greater detail in Note 17, "Guarantees", to our consolidated financial statements. Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial position remained strong at October 31, 2006, with cash and cash equivalents of $2,262 million as compared to $2,226 million at October 31, 2005. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities We generated cash from continuing operations of $431 million in 2006 compared to $656 million in 2005. 50 We paid approximately $156 million in taxes during 2006 as compared to $75 million in 2005. The higher tax payments in 2006 were mostly associated with the U.S. tax liability created in 2005 for repatriation of earnings from our foreign subsidiaries of $970 million under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, and with the 2005 federal alternate minimum tax. We also made higher disbursements for restructuring activities of $166 million during 2006, primarily in the form of severance payments, compared to $110 million during 2005. The restructuring payments were more than offset by proceeds from the real estate sales related to the consolidation of excess facilities as reported in the investing section below. We have also paid approximately $155 million during 2006 under our variable pay programs, as compared to approximately $83 million paid out during 2005. In 2006, accounts receivable generated cash of $8 million versus cash generated of $47 million in 2005. Days sales outstanding was reduced to 47 days in 2006 as compared to 49 days in 2005. Though revenue increased by 6 percent year over year, decline in days sales outstanding reflects continuing improvement in receivables management. In 2006, accounts payable generated cash of $56 million versus cash generated of $19 million in 2005. Inventory used cash of $55 million in 2006 compared to $12 million generated in 2005. Inventory days on hand were 95 days in 2006 compared to 90 days in 2005. We contributed $41 million to fund our U.S. defined benefit plan in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2006, we contributed $76 million to fund our international defined benefits plans, compared to $34 million in 2005. In 2006, total pension plan contributions were $117 million, or 56 percent more than in 2005. In 2007, we expect funding requirements for our various benefit plans to decrease to a total of approximately $39 million. Our annual contributions are highly dependent on the relative performance of our assets versus our projected liabilities, among other factors. As the value of our assets increases relative to our future projected obligations we will make smaller contributions to maintain our funded status. In 2006, we recorded an additional minimum pension liability for $112 million as several of our non U.S. defined benefit retirement plans had accumulated benefit obligations in excess of the fair value of plan assets. The establishment of the additional minimum liability also resulted in a net long term deferred tax asset for $34 million. Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations related to semiconductor products business was $7 million during 2006 as compared to $256 million in 2005. We completed the sale of our semiconductor products business in December 2005. Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations related to semiconductor test solutions business was $196 million during 2006 as compared to $13 million used in 2005. We completed the spin off of our semiconductor test solutions business in October 2006. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities of continuing operations 2006 was $1,838 million compared to $159 million used in the same period in 2005. In December 2005, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products division for $2.5 billion net of transaction costs and taxes. In November 2005, we also completed the sale of our ownership in Lumileds to Philips for approximately $949 million, plus repayment of approximately $51 million of outstanding principal debt and accrued interest from Lumileds. Sale of ownership in Lumileds resulted in a gain of approximately $901 million. 51 Restricted cash, cash equivalents and investments, net, increased by $1,584 million in 2006 as compared to a $22 million increase in 2005. In connection with the financing described under "Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities" below, Agilent Technologies (Cayco) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent Technologies World Trade, Inc. ("World Trade"), which is in turn a wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent, is required to hold short term investments. These short term investments have been disclosed as restricted cash and cash equivalents on our consolidated balance sheet. Investments in property, plant and equipment were $185 million, an increase of $57 million from 2005. The increase in the capital expenditure was due to our site restructuring following the semiconductor products division divestiture and spin off of our semiconductor test solutions business. Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment were $207 million in 2006 as compared to $54 million in 2005. During 2006, we sold our Palo Alto site and San Jose site for a total consideration of approximately $186.5 million. We also purchased minority interests in consolidated joint ventures for $104 million during 2006 which included primarily the remaining minority interest of 49 percent in Yokogawa Analytical Systems for $98 million. In addition, we invested $50 million in the acquisitions of businesses and intangible assets, net of cash in 2006 compared to $64 million in 2005. Proceeds from the sale of short term investments were $25 million in 2006. Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations related to our semiconductor products business was $6 million in 2006 as compared to cash used of $27 million during 2005. Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations related to our semiconductor test solutions business was $36 million in 2006 as compared to cash used of $14 million during 2005. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities in 2006 was $2,548 million compared to $780 million used in 2005. Our board of directors authorized a stock repurchase program of up to $4.466 billion in 2005 and up to an additional $2 billion by the end of fiscal 2008. We completed $4.466 billion stock repurchase program in 2006. In addition we also repurchased our common stock for $56 million under the 2006 program. As of October 31, 2006, we have acquired approximately 127 million shares of our common stock under both programs. Proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans were $547 million and $198 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in the proceeds was primarily due to the higher exercise rate of options as a result of a higher Agilent stock price and modifications to the terms of the options held by employees of our semiconductor products business. The modification effected the acceleration of vesting for all unvested options as part of the divestiture of the semiconductor products business. We distributed $300 million upon separation of our semiconductor test solutions business ("Verigy") on October 31, 2006. This amount was held by Verigy as of October 31, 2006. Agilent also made a payment of $19 million pursuant to master separation agreement, the amount by which the aggregate net proceeds from Verigy IPO were less than $140 million. For further details, see Note 4, "Discontinued operations of our semiconductor test solutions business", to our consolidated financial statements. In January 2006, World Trade entered into a Master Repurchase Agreement and related Confirmation (together, the "Repurchase Agreement") with a counterparty pursuant to which World Trade sold to the counterparty 15,000 Class A preferred shares having an aggregate liquidation preference of $1.5 billion of its wholly owned subsidiary, which has its own assets and liabilities, and 52 received $1.5 billion in cash. Pursuant to the Repurchase Agreement, World Trade is obligated to repurchase from the counterparty the preferred shares for 100 percent of their aggregate liquidation preference in January 2011. The $1.5 billion obligation of World Trade to repurchase the preferred shares has been treated as long term debt on our consolidated balance sheet. In December 2005, we drew down $700 million on a $1 billion senior secured term borrowing facility to help finance our share repurchase program. In January 2006, we applied $700 million of the proceeds from the Repurchase Agreement to repay the full amount borrowed under the Credit Agreement. The senior secured term borrowing facility expired in the first quarter of 2006. Net cash provided by financing activities of discontinued operations related to our semiconductor test solutions business was $140 million in 2006. During the third quarter of 2006, Verigy completed their initial public offering ("IPO") of 8.7 million shares. In addition, the underwriters of the IPO exercised a portion of their over allotment options. Total proceeds from IPO and exercise of over allotment options by underwriters were $121 million, net. Agilent made a payment of an additional $19 million pursuant to master separation agreement, the amount by which the aggregate net proceeds from Verigy IPO were less than $140 million. Other We have contractual commitments for non cancelable operating leases. See Note 18, "Commitments and Contingencies", to our consolidated financial statements for further information on our non cancelable operating leases. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of our business and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economics and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Local government regulations may restrict our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs under certain circumstances. We do not currently expect such regulations and restrictions to impact our ability to pay vendors and conduct operations throughout our global organization. On April 13, 2005, Standard & Poors Rating Services ("S&P") raised its corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings of Agilent to "BB+" from "BB", revising their rating outlook to "stable" from "positive". On August 15, 2005, S&P raised its rating outlook on Agilent to "positive", but left the companys corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings unchanged. On December 11, 2006, Moodys Investors Service ("Moodys") upgraded their corporate family rating and probability of default rating of Agilent from "Ba2" to "Ba1" and revised their rating outlook to positive, leaving unchanged the speculative grade liquidity rating of "SGL 1". Contractual Commitments Our cash flows from operations are dependent on a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections, inventory management, and the timing of tax and other payments. As a result, the impact of contractual obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with such factors. 53 The following table summarizes our total contractual obligations at October 31, 2006 for continuing operations and excludes amounts recorded in our consolidated balance sheet (in millions): Less than one year One to three years Three to five years More than five years Operating leases $ 79 $ 106 $ 41 $ 37 Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers 426 Other purchase commitments 7 6 3 1 Retirement plans 39 Total $ 551 $ 112 $ 44 $ 38 Operating leases. Commitments under operating leases relate primarily to leasehold property. Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, we issue purchase orders with estimates of our requirements several months ahead of the delivery dates. However, our agreements with these suppliers usually allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Typically purchase orders outstanding with delivery dates within 30 days are non cancelable. Therefore, only approximately 36 percent of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, non cancelable, and unconditional commitments. We expect to fulfill all purchase commitments for inventory within one year. In addition to the above, we record a liability for firm, non cancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with our policy relating to excess inventory. As of October 31, 2006, the liability for our firm, non cancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments was $9 million, compared with $11 million as of October 31, 2005. These amounts are included in other accrued liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. Other purchase commitments. These relate primarily to contracts with professional services suppliers. Purchase commitments are typically cancelable within a 90 day period without significant penalties. Retirement plans. Retirement plan funding includes the expected tax deductible contribution planned for 2007. Funding projections beyond the current year are not practical to estimate due to the rules affecting tax deductible contributions and the impact from asset performance and interest rates. We had no material off balance sheet arrangements as of October 31, 2006 or October 31, 2005.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. We hedge future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currency using sales forecasts up to twelve months in advance. Our exposure to exchange rate risks is managed on an enterprise wide basis. This strategy utilizes derivative financial instruments, including option and forward contracts, to hedge certain foreign currency exposures with the intent of offsetting gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures with gains and 54 losses on the derivative contracts hedging them. We do not currently and do not intend to utilize derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Our operations generate non functional currency cash flows such as revenues, third party vendor payments and inter company payments. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of volatility of the currency market, we enter into such foreign exchange contracts as are described above to manage our currency risk. Approximately 63 percent of our revenues in 2006, 64 percent of our revenues in 2005 and 65 percent of our revenues in 2004 were generated in U.S. dollars. We performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign exchange rates to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. As of October 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005, the analysis indicated that these hypothetical market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 55   
