Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This report contains forward looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new product and service introductions, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from continuing operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and the divestiture of our semiconductor products and semiconductor test businesses, our stock repurchase program, our transition to lower cost regions, the existence or length of an economic recovery that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed in Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Overview and Executive Summary Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company") is the worlds premier measurement company, providing core bio analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. Agilent has two primary businesses focused on the electronic measurement market and the bio analytical measurement market. Our fiscal year end is October 31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year. In December 2005, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business. In 2006, we completed the initial public offering of our semiconductor test solutions business, Verigy Ltd. ("Verigy"). The results of our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Agilents net revenue from continuing operations in 2007 was $5,420 million, an increase of 9 percent in comparison to 2006. Our bio analytical business performed very well throughout the year and net revenue in 2007 increased by 20 percent in comparison to 2006. Demand for our products and services increased across every market in which our life sciences and chemical analysis businesses operate. In our electronic measurement business, net revenue in 2007 increased 3 percent in comparison to 2006. The electronic measurement business saw reasonable growth in our general purpose test market and the communications test market declined slightly over last year. Growth for the electronic measurement segment was led by aerospace/defense and wireline/wireless research and development. There was a reduction in revenues in the wireless manufacturing market during the year as the industry experienced excess capacity in handset test. Agilents total net revenue in 2006 increased 6 percent in comparison to 2005. Net income was $638 million in 2007. Net income in 2006 was $3,307 million, which included the income from and gain on sale of our semiconductor products business for $1,816 million, the income from the discontinued operations of our semiconductor test solutions business for $54 million and a gain of $901 million on the sale of our investment in Lumileds. Net income in 2005 was $327 million. 38 In 2007, we generated operating cash flows of $969 million and had cash and cash equivalents balance as of October 31, 2007 of $1,826 million. In 2006, we generated operating cash flows of $431 million and had a cash and cash equivalents balance as of October 31, 2006 of $2,262 million. The following significant events occurred in fiscal year 2007: In May 2007, we entered into a five year credit agreement, which provides for a $300 million unsecured credit facility that will expire in May, 2012. The company is not borrowing under the facility at this time, but may borrow under the facility from time to time as needs arise. In June 2007, we completed the acquisition of Stratagene Corporation previously announced in the second quarter of 2007. We paid approximately $252 million cash for Stratagene, or $10.94 per share of their common stock. The results of operations for Stratagene have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. In October 2007, we completed a stock repurchase program of $2.0 billion of common stock. The program was originally announced in September 2006 and subsequently updated during the second quarter of 2007 to enable the accelerated repurchase of the remaining amount. In October 2007, we issued $600 million of 6.5% unsecured senior notes, discounted at 0.4% and due for repayment in November 2017. We may redeem the notes at any time prior to their maturity and we would pay a redemption price equal to the greater of either 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes to be redeemed on the redemption date or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments. In each case, accrued and unpaid interest would be paid up to but not including the redemption date. Upon the closing of the offering of the senior notes, we entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $600 million. The economic effect of these swaps will be to convert the fixed rate interest expense on the senior notes to a variable LIBOR based interest rate. Looking forward, our continued focus will be to grow revenue at a faster rate than the electronic measurement and bio analytical markets, primarily through increasing market share, expanding our served market size with new products and channels and by complementary acquisitions. Our primary strategy is to pursue profitable growth by expanding our leadership in core/adjacent markets and seeking revenue growth opportunities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, investment impairments, share based compensation, retirement and post retirement plan assumptions, valuation of long lived assets and accounting for income taxes. Revenue recognition. We enter into agreements to sell products (hardware or software), services, and other arrangements (multiple element arrangements) that include combinations of products and services. Revenue from product sales, net of trade discounts and allowances, is recognized provided that persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the 39 price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer. Revenue is reduced for estimated product returns, when appropriate. For sales that include customer specified acceptance criteria, revenue is recognized after the acceptance criteria have been met. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, product revenue is recognized upon delivery, and recognition of installation revenue occurs when the installation is complete. Otherwise, neither the product nor the installation revenue is recognized until the installation is complete. Revenue from services is deferred and recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. When arrangements include multiple elements, we use relative fair value or vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for software to allocate revenue to the elements and recognize revenue when the criteria for revenue recognition have been met for each element. The amount of product revenue recognized is affected by our judgments as to whether an arrangement includes multiple elements and if so, whether fair value exists for those elements. Changes to the elements in an arrangement and the ability to establish fair value for those elements could affect the timing of the revenue recognition. Most of these conditions are subjective and actual results could vary from the estimated outcome, requiring future adjustments to revenue. Inventory valuation. We assess the valuation of our inventory on a quarterly basis and periodically write down the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based upon estimates about future demand and actual usage. Such estimates are difficult to make under most economic conditions. The excess balance determined by this analysis becomes the basis for our excess inventory charge. Our excess inventory review process includes analysis of sales forecasts, managing product rollovers and working with manufacturing to maximize recovery of excess inventory. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional write downs may be required. If actual market conditions are more favorable than anticipated, inventory previously written down may be sold to customers, resulting in lower cost of sales and higher income from operations than expected in that period. Investment impairments. We recognize an impairment charge when the decline in the fair value of our publicly traded equity securities and our cost method investments below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. Significant judgment is used to identify events or circumstances that would likely have a significant adverse effect on the future use of the investment. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other than temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, forecasted recovery, the financial condition and near term prospects of the investee, and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. Share based compensation. We account for share based awards in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (R), Shared Based Payment ("SFAS No. 123 (R)") which was effective November 1, 2005 for Agilent. Under the standard, share based compensation expense is primarily based on estimated grant date fair value which generally uses the Black Scholes option pricing model and is recognized on a straight line basis for awards granted after November 1, 2005 over the vesting period of the award. For awards issued prior to November 1, 2005, we recognize share based compensation expense based on FASB Interpretation 28 "Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans an interpretation of APB Opinions No. 15 and 25", which provides for accelerated expensing. Our estimate of share based compensation expense requires a number of complex and subjective assumptions including our stock price volatility, employee exercise patterns (expected life of the options), future forfeitures and related tax effects. We consider several factors in estimating the expected life of our options granted, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees, which we believe are representative of future behavior. We estimate the stock price 40 volatility using the implied volatility of Agilents publicly traded stock options. We have determined that implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than a combined method of determining volatility. In reaching this conclusion, we have considered many factors including the extent to which our options are traded and our ability to find traded options with similar terms and prices to the options we are valuing. A 10 percent increase in our estimated volatility from 30 percent to 40 percent for our most recent employee stock option grant would generally increase the value of an award and the associated compensation cost by approximately 21 percent if no other factors were changed. In the first quarter of 2007, we revised our estimate of the expected life of our employee stock options from 4.25 years to 4.6 years. In revising this estimate, we considered several factors, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees. In the first quarter of 2007, we granted the majority of our employee stock options to executive employees and the review of our data indicated that our executive employees, on average, exercise their options at 4.6 years. In 2007, we granted restricted stock units (rather than stock options) to the majority of our employee base that received equity compensation. See Note 3, "Share Based Compensation," to the consolidated financial statements for more information. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share based awards represent our best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, changes in assumptions could materially impact our reported financial results. Retirement and post retirement benefit plan assumptions. Retirement and post retirement benefit plan costs are a significant cost of doing business. They represent obligations that will ultimately be settled sometime in the future and therefore are subject to estimation. Pension accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employees average expected future service to Agilent based on the terms of the plans and investment and funding decisions. To estimate the impact of these future payments and our decisions concerning funding of these obligations, we are required to make assumptions using actuarial concepts within the framework of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Two critical assumptions are the discount rate and the expected long term return on plan assets. Other important assumptions include the health care cost trend rate, expected future salary increases, expected future increases to benefit payments, expected retirement dates, employee turnover, retiree mortality rates, and portfolio composition. We evaluate these assumptions at least annually. The discount rate is used to determine the present value of future benefit payments at the measurement date October 31 for U.S. plans and September 30 for non U.S plans. The U.S. discount rates were determined by matching the expected plan benefit payments against an industry discount curve as well as a hypothetically constructed portfolio of high quality corporate bonds. We also reviewed the movement of industry benchmarks from the prior year. The discount rate increased slightly over the prior year to 6.25 percent. Lower discount rates increase present values and subsequent year pension expense; higher discount rates decrease present values and subsequent year pension expense. The discount rate for non U.S. plans was generally based on published rates for high quality corporate bonds. The expected long term return on plan assets is estimated using current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns. A one percent change in the estimated long term return on plan assets for 2007 would result in a $7 million impact on U.S. pension expense and a $17 million impact on non U.S. pension expense. 41 The net periodic pension and post retirement benefit costs recorded in continuing operations excluding curtailments and settlements were $57 million in 2007, $81 million in 2006 and $106 million in 2005. Valuation of long lived assets. We performed our annual goodwill impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of 2007. Based on our estimates of forecasted discounted cash flows and our market capitalization at that time, we concluded that our goodwill was not impaired. We have also assessed the recoverability of our long lived assets, by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted future cash flows. Asset impairments primarily consist of property, plant and equipment and are based on an estimate of the amounts and timing of future cash flows related to the expected future remaining use and ultimate sale or disposal of buildings and equipment net of costs to sell. During 2007, we incurred $1 million of asset impairment charges. In addition, we recorded $7 million of investment impairment charges during 2007. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles is highly subjective and requires significant judgment. We estimate expected future cash flows of our various businesses, which operate in a number of markets and geographical regions. We then determine the carrying value of these businesses. We exercise judgment in assigning and allocating certain assets and liabilities to these businesses. We then compare the carrying value including goodwill and other intangibles to the discounted future cash flows. If the total of future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. Estimates of the future cash flows associated with the assets are critical to these assessments. Changes in these estimates based on changed economic conditions or business strategies could result in material impairment charges in future periods. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of long lived assets such as our property, plant and equipment is also highly subjective and requires significant judgment. In order to estimate the fair value of long lived assets, we typically make various assumptions about the future prospects for the business that the asset relates to, consider market factors specific to that business and estimate future cash flows to be generated by that business. Based on these assumptions and estimates, we determine whether we need to take an impairment charge to reduce the value of the asset stated on our balance sheet to reflect its estimated fair value. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives are complex and often subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as the real estate market, industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, changes in assumptions and estimates could materially impact our reported financial results. Accounting for income taxes. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in determining whether deferred tax assets will be realized in full or in part. When it is more likely than not that all or some portion of specific deferred tax assets such as net operating losses or foreign tax credit carryforwards will not be realized, a valuation allowance must be established for the amount of the deferred tax assets that cannot be realized. Realization is based on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income. During 2003, we established valuation allowances for the deferred tax assets of the U.S. and selected entities in foreign jurisdictions. The valuation allowance was determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes", which requires an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. During 2007, we concluded that it is more likely than not that a significant portion of our U.S. federal deferred tax assets will be realized. We did not conclude that any of our U.S. state deferred tax assets would be similarly realized. 42 Cumulative losses incurred by certain entities in foreign jurisdictions in recent years represent sufficient negative evidence, which make it difficult for positive evidence to overcome. Accordingly, a full valuation allowance was recorded in all instances. We intend to maintain a full valuation allowance for these U.S. state and foreign entities until sufficient positive evidence exists to support reversal of the valuation allowance. Profits or losses incurred in U.S. states and by certain entities in foreign jurisdictions affect the ongoing amount of the valuation allowance. We have not provided for all U.S. federal income and foreign withholding taxes on the undistributed earnings of some of our foreign subsidiaries because we intend to reinvest such earnings indefinitely. Should we decide to remit this income to the U.S. in a future period, our provision for income taxes may increase materially in that period. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax law and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. Restructuring and Asset Impairment We initiated several restructuring plans in prior periods: the 2001 Plan, the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan ("Prior Plans"). In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005, due to the then pending divestitures of our semiconductor products and semiconductor test businesses, we launched a new restructuring plan ("2005 Plan") to reduce our workforce and facility footprint to match a smaller organizational size. The workforce reduction portion of our plans are now substantially complete. However, charges in connection with the consolidation of excess facilities continue to be recorded due to changes in market conditions from those originally expected at the date the liability for the excess facility was recorded. Payments will continue to be made related to these properties over the next four years. In 2006 and 2007 we executed the 2005 Plan and recorded restructuring charges of $12 million in 2007 and $186 million in 2006. Workforce reduction expenses were $17 million in 2007 and $111 million in 2006. Charges relating to facility impairments and adjustments to the accrual relating to the consolidation of excess facilities accounted for the remainder of the restructuring charge. As of October 31, 2007, our accrual for pending workforce reduction costs was $1 million, and the workforce reduction component of our restructuring plans is now substantially complete. Our accrual for the consolidation of excess facilities, decreased $27 million from the prior year due to $22 million of lease payments and a slight improvement in our assessments of potential recoveries from sub lease tenants in some of our vacant properties which led to a net reversal of $5 million. We continue to realign our businesses to the changing economic environment, although such actions do not constitute a restructuring plan as they have been and are expected to be independent actions undertaken from time to time, as appropriate, each of which have been or are expected to be individually immaterial. Total workforce management charges of approximately $35 million have been incurred in 2007 in respect of these actions, with a further charge of approximately $20 million expected in 2008. 43 The restructuring accrual is recorded in other accrued liabilities and other long term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. For further details on our restructuring plans, see Note 18, "Restructuring and Asset Impairment", to our consolidated financial statements. Foreign Currency Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short term and anticipated basis. We do experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the consolidated statement of operations and balance sheet because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short term basis (rolling twelve month period). Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. For example, over the last three years the U.S dollar has weakened against the Euro and the British pound and although we successfully hedged currency movements in those currencies each year, we have experienced a net increase in reported expenses in Europe as a result of currency fluctuations over this time period. Results from Continuing Operations In the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, we moved the nanotechnology measurement business from the electronics measurement segment to the bio analytical measurement segment to more closely align with the new materials sciences business in that segment. All historical segment numbers presented in this Annual Report on Form 10 K have been recast to conform to this change in reportable segments. Orders and Net Revenue Years Ended October 31, 2007 over 2006 % Change 2006 over 2005 % Change 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Orders $ 5,441 $ 5,075 $ 4,773 7 % 6 % Net revenue: Products $ 4,505 $ 4,125 $ 3,854 9 % 7 % Services and other $ 915 $ 848 $ 831 8 % 2 % Total net revenue $ 5,420 $ 4,973 $ 4,685 9 % 6 % Years Ended October 31, 2007 over 2006 Ppts Change 2006 over 2005 Ppts Change 2007 2006 2005 % of total net revenue: Products 83 % 83 % 82 % 1 ppt Services and other 17 % 17 % 18 % (1) ppt Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Net revenue in 2007 was $5,420 million, a 9 percent increase over the $4,973 million net revenue recorded in 2006. Net revenue in 2006 was $4,973 million, a 6 percent increase over the $4,685 million net revenue recorded in 2005. 44 The bio analytical measurement segment achieved strong revenue growth for the year of 20 percent with increases in both life science and chemical analysis businesses. In life science, there was sustained momentum due to the demand from biotechnology and pharmaceutical customers for the Liquid Chromatograph ("LC") and Liquid Chromatograph/Mass Spectroscopy ("LC/MS") platforms and microarrays. In chemical analysis, growth was driven by demand in all markets, and in particular petrochemical environmental and food testing solutions. Our electronic measurement business saw a 3 percent revenue growth overall with an increase in general purpose test, but a modest decline in the communication test business. In the general purpose test business the aerospace/defense market increased steadily over 2006 and the semiconductor markets were flat year over year. The communications test business increased revenues in the wireless research and development market and the wireline market also increased in the year. The wireless handset test market has been weak throughout the year, but there are now signs of stability. Services and other revenue include revenue generated from servicing our installed base of products, warranty extensions and consulting. Services and other revenue increased 8 percent as compared to 2006. Backlog On October 31, 2007, our unfilled orders were unchanged from last year for the electronic measurement business at approximately $750 million. On October 31, 2007, our unfilled orders for the bio analytical measurement business were approximately $290 million, as compared to approximately $280 million at October 31, 2006. We expect that a large majority of the unfilled orders for both businesses will be delivered to customers within nine months. On average, our unfilled orders represent approximately two months worth of revenues. In light of this experience, backlog on any particular date, while indicative of short term revenue performance, is not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long term revenue performance. Costs and Expenses Years Ended October 31, 2007 over 2006 Change 2006 over 2005 Change 2007 2006 2005 Gross margin on products 57.2 % 56.4 % 52.9 % 1 ppt 4 ppts Gross margin on services and other 42.8 % 39.2 % 39.4 % 4 ppts Total gross margin 54.8 % 53.4 % 50.5 % 1 ppts 3 ppts Operating margin 10.8 % 9.3 % 4.6 % 2 ppts 5 ppts (in millions) Research and development $ 685 $ 655 $ 650 5% 1% Selling, general and administrative $ 1,700 $ 1,660 $ 1,498 2% 11% In 2007, total gross margin increased 1 percentage point in comparison to 2006. Operating margins in 2007 increased 2 percentage points as compared to 2006. Research and development expenditure has risen modestly and we have tightly controlled selling, general and administrative expenses during the year. We experienced an unfavorable impact in gross and operating margins due to the comparative weakness of the U.S. dollar and Japanese Yen denominated revenues against the Euro and Malaysian Ringgit costs only partially offset by hedging gains. Operating margins in 2006 increased 5 percentage points as compared to 2005 due to continued restructuring activities and tighter controls on spending. 45 Gross inventory charges were $21 million in 2007, $38 million in 2006 and $59 million in 2005. Sales of previously reserved inventory were $5 million in 2007, $14 million in 2006 and $8 million in 2005. Our research and development efforts focus on potential new products and product improvements covering a wide variety of technologies, none of which is individually significant to our operations. We conduct five types of research and development: basic research, which contributes to the fundamental understanding of areas critical to our future; foundation technologies, which enables fundamental advances across all businesses; communications, which creates technologies to enable pervasive access to information; life sciences, which enables next generation pharmaceuticals and improved patient outcomes; and measurement, which provides critical advances in test and measurement electronics and systems. Our research seeks to improve on various technical competencies in electronics such as compound semiconductor devices, digital imaging systems and microfabrication technologies; software, systems and solutions such as applied mathematics, knowledge management and measurement science; life sciences such as computational biology, molecular diagnostics and high throughput measurements; and photonics, such as precision automation technology, optical switching and high speed optical links. In each of these research fields, we conduct research that is focused on specific product development for release in the short term as well as other research that is intended to be the foundation for future products over a longer time horizon. Some of our product development research is designed to improve on the more than 20,000 products already in production, other research is on major new product releases, and yet other focused on developing new product segments for the future. Due to the breadth of research and development projects across all of our businesses, there are a number of drivers of this expense. Income from continuing operations in 2007 was $638 million. Income from continuing operations in 2006 was $1,437 million, which includes a gain of $901 million for the sale of our investment in Lumileds, an equity investment. At October 31, 2007, our headcount, on a continuing operations basis, was approximately 19,400 compared to 18,700 in 2006 and 19,400 in 2005. The increase in workforce is predominantly due to acquisitions and business expansion offset by reductions in infrastructure headcount. Provision for Income Taxes from Continuing Operations Years Ended October 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Provision for income taxes $ 32 $ 91 $ 142 For the year ended October 31, 2007, we recorded an income tax provision of $32 million on continuing operations as compared with an income tax provision of $91 million and $142 million on continuing operations for the years ended October 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 provision was recorded for taxes on income generated in jurisdictions other than the U.S. Income or losses incurred in certain foreign jurisdictions were offset by adjustments to their respective valuation allowances. For 2007, the annual effective tax rate was 4.8 percent on continuing operations. The 4.8 percent continuing operations tax rate reflects taxes at an effective tax rate of zero in the U.S. (due to a release of a significant portion of the valuation allowance) and at low effective tax rates in other jurisdictions. The low continuing operations tax rate includes a benefit of $31 million related to valuation allowance adjustments based on changes in other comprehensive income items, portions of which are 46 attributable to increases in currency translation adjustments and to increases in the value of certain stock investments. In addition, the tax rate includes benefits totaling $73 million related to the resolution of primarily non U.S. tax issues associated with the 2000 spin off of Agilent from Hewlett Packard. For 2006, the annual effective tax rate was 6.0 percent on continuing operations. The 6.0 percent continuing operations tax rate reflects taxes on the sale of our Lumileds joint venture at an effective tax rate of zero in the U.S. (due to the operation of the valuation allowance) and at low effective tax rates in other jurisdictions. In addition, the low continuing operations tax rate is a result of the $29 million benefit related to the resolution of issues covered by a Tax Sharing Agreement between Agilent and Hewlett Packard. The tax rate for continuing operations does not include the impact of income from low tax jurisdictions generated by our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business which are now reported as discontinued operations. For 2005, the annual effective tax rate was 42.6 percent on continuing operations. This tax rate for continuing operations does not include the impact of income from low tax jurisdictions generated by our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business which are now reported as discontinued operations. Additionally, the repatriation tax of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("AJCA") caused a 7.2 percent increase in the 2005 effective tax rate as during 2005 we decided to repatriate earnings on which we had not previously provided U.S. taxes. On October 22, 2004, the AJCA was signed into law. The AJCA created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85 percent dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we distributed cash from our foreign subsidiaries and reported an extraordinary dividend (as defined in the AJCA) of $970 million and a related tax liability of approximately $48 million in our fiscal 2005 federal income tax return. For 2005, $23 million of the $48 million is provided for in the discontinued operations provision for income taxes, while the remaining is provided for in the continuing operations provision for income taxes. Agilent enjoys tax holidays in several different jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore, Malaysia and Switzerland. The tax holidays provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require various thresholds of investments and employment in those jurisdictions. As a result of the incentives, the impact of the tax holidays decreased income taxes by $190 million, $76 million and $54 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. It is anticipated that these tax holidays will benefit Agilent in a similar way in 2008. During 2003, we established valuation allowances for the deferred tax assets of the U.S. and certain entities in foreign jurisdictions. The valuation allowances were determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109 which require an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. During 2007, we concluded that it is more likely than not that a significant portion of our U.S. federal deferred tax assets will be realized. We did not conclude that any of our U.S. state deferred tax assets would be similarly realized. Cumulative losses incurred by certain entities in foreign jurisdictions in recent years represent sufficient negative evidence under SFAS No. 109 to require full valuation allowances. We intend to maintain full valuation allowances for these U.S. state and foreign jurisdictions until sufficient positive evidence exists to support the reversal. 47  Our U.S. federal income tax returns for 2000 through 2002 have been under audit by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). In August 2007, we received a Revenue Agents Report ("RAR"). In the RAR, the IRS proposes to assess a net tax deficiency, after applying available net operating losses from the years under audit and undisputed tax credits, for those years of approximately $405 million, plus penalties of approximately $160 million and interest. If the IRS were to fully prevail, our net operating loss and tax credits generated in recent years would be utilized earlier than they otherwise would have been, and our annual effective tax rate will have increased as a result. The RAR addresses several issues. One issue, however, relating to the use of Agilents brand name by our foreign affiliates, accounts for a majority of the claimed tax deficiency. We believe that the claimed IRS adjustment for this issue in particular is inconsistent with applicable tax laws and that we have meritorious defenses to this claim. Therefore we have not included any tax for this item in our tax provision for 2007. We have filed a formal protest and requested a conference with the Appeals Office of the IRS and have opposed this claim, and most of the other claimed adjustments proposed in the RAR, vigorously. The final resolution of the proposed adjustments is uncertain and may take several years. Based on current information, it is our opinion that the ultimate disposition of these matters is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. For all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliate and Gain on Sale Lumileds Agilent sold its interest in Lumileds on November 28, 2005. Lumileds was a global joint venture between Agilent and KoninklijkePhilips Electronics N.V. ("Philips"). Lumileds manufactures high power light emitting diodes and solid state lighting solutions. Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, upon closure of the sale transaction, the Joint Venture Agreement and the ancillary agreements were terminated. The purchase price paid by Philips under the Share Purchase Agreement was $949 million. In addition, Lumileds repaid the $51 million of outstanding principal debt and accrued interest under the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2001. Our equity in the net income of our unconsolidated affiliate including the 2006 gain on sale of our interest in Lumileds was $901million in 2006 and $42 million in 2005. General Infrastructure and Shared Services For Agilent overall we have decreased our infrastructure costs compared to 2006 by $115 million. We have largely completed our restructuring activities and streamlined our operations. We passed these savings on to all our businesses according to usage of related services. We have reduced the number of employees in our workforce that provide support services such as finance, IT and workplace services and moved many of our global shared services operations sites to lower cost regions. The general infrastructure and shared services functions ended 2007 with approximately 2,500 employees, a decrease of approximately 230 employees from one year ago and a decrease of approximately 1,400 employees from two years ago. Over the past two years, general infrastructure and shared services headcount has dropped by 1,250 people in the Americas and Europe and by 150 people in Asia. 48 Segment Overview Agilent is a measurement company providing core bio analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. Agilent has two primary businesses focused on the electronic measurement market and the bio analytical measurement market. Electronic Measurement Our electronic measurement business provides standard and customized electronic measurement instruments and systems monitoring, management and optimization tools for communications networks and services, software design tools and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment and communications networks and services. Related services include start up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customers product lifecycle. Orders and Net Revenue Years Ended October 31, 2007 over 2006 Change 2006 over 2005 Change 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Orders $ 3,415 $ 3,336 $ 3,184 2 % 5 % Net revenue from products $ 2,890 $ 2,797 $ 2,661 3 % 5 % Net revenue from services and other 525 505 507 4 % % Total net revenue $ 3,415 $ 3,302 $ 3,168 3 % 4 % Electronic measurement business orders grew 2 percent compared to 2006. On a geographic basis, order growth in the Americas and Europe was offset by declines in Asia, most notably in Japan. Order growth in 2007 was driven by strength in aerospace/defense and general purpose markets, which was offset by declines in the wireless manufacturing and communications market. From 2005 to 2006 orders increased 5 percent due to growth in our wireless communication applications, as well as in signaling applications for the aerospace/defense market. Electronic measurement business revenues increased 3 percent year over year in 2007. General purpose revenues, representing approximately 60 percent of our electronic measurement business, grew approximately 7 percent. Our general purpose revenues are made up of sales into the general purpose, computer and semiconductor, and aerospace/defense markets. Our general purpose market business continues to experience solid growth due to ongoing global economic expansion and steady consumer electronics spending. The computer and semiconductor market business was essentially flat year over year, while our aerospace/defense market business continued to grow due to on going demand for signaling and communication solutions in defense related applications, such as satellite, electronic monitoring, explosive device detection, and electronic warfare systems. Communications test revenues, representing approximately 40 percent of our electronic measurement business, declined 2 percent. Communications test revenues are made up of sales into the wireless test, wireline test and wireless design software markets. Wireless manufacturing test application business was down compared to 2006, offset by growth in our wireless R&D, wireline and wireless design software business. In 2006 revenue grew 4 percent with a segment profile similar to 2007 in which growth in general purpose markets was offset by declines in our communications test business. 49 Looking forward, we project continued opportunities for growth in our electronic measurement business driven by on going wireless 3G coverage and services expansion, as well as broadband and triple play (voice/data/video) applications. We remain cautiously optimistic with regard to the aerospace/defense markets overall spending growth in the areas of signal intelligence, communications, surveillance and electronic warfare. This growth potential could be mitigated by potential slowdowns in spending on new communication technologies, government budget limitations and computer and semiconductor market investment. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the electronic measurement businesss margins, expenses and income from operations for 2007 versus 2006 and 2006 versus 2005. Years Ended October 31, 2007 over 2006 Change 2006 over 2005 Change 2007 2006 2005 Total gross margin 57.5 % 56.2 % 53.1 % 1 ppt 3 ppts Operating margin 14.0 % 13.7 % 10.5 % 3 ppts (in millions) Research and development $ 489 $ 449 $ 440 9% 2% Selling, general and administrative $ 999 $ 955 $ 908 5% 5% Income from operations $ 477 $ 453 $ 334 5% 36% Gross margins for products and services improved 1 percentage point year over year in 2007 as margin improvements due to lower infrastructure costs, lower material costs and a functional change in corporate overhead classification were partially offset by changes in product mix. Gross margin for products and services increased 3 percentage points from 2005 to 2006, a period of significant cost reductions driven by restructuring activities and overall operational improvements. Research and development expenses increased 9 percent in 2007. The year over year increase was driven by continued investment in new technologies and growth opportunities, incremental research and development costs from acquisitions, the unfavorable impact of currency movements and an unfavorable functional change in corporate overhead classification. Research and development costs increased 2 percent in 2006 compared to 2005 as on going investment in new technology was offset by restructuring savings. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 5 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 due to selective investment in support of growth initiatives, increases from acquisitions, and the unfavorable impact of currency movements. Operating margins were essentially flat in 2007 compared to 2006 as gross margin improvements were offset by the increased investment in research and development, as well as selling, general and administrative expenses. Operating margins improved 3 percentage points in 2006 compared to 2005 as gross margin improvements drove the majority of the year over year improvement. Income from Operations Income from operations increased by $24 million in 2007 compared to 2006 on increased revenue of $113 million. Gross margin improvements, cost structure reductions, and discretionary spending controls were largely offset by increased investment in acquisitions, incremental hiring in the first half of the year and the unfavorable impact of currency movements. 50 Income from operations increased $119 million in 2006 compared to 2005 on a revenue increase of $134 million. Restructuring through selective workforce reductions, reductions in our cost structure, improved material costs, lower inventory charges and overall operational improvements helped comparative operating results, with most of the improvement coming from better gross margins. In absolute dollars cost of sales was down 3 percent from 2005 while revenue increased by 4 percent over the same period. Bio analytical Measurement Our bio analytical measurement business provides application focused solutions that include instruments; software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our twelve key product categories include: gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, microfluidics, microarrays, atomic force microscopy, PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) instrumentation, software and informatics, and related bioreagents, consumables and services. Orders and Net Revenue Years Ended October 31, 2007 over 2006 Change 2006 over 2005 Change 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Orders $ 2,026 $ 1,739 $ 1,589 17 % 9 % Net revenue from products $ 1,615 $ 1,328 $ 1,193 22 % 11 % Net revenue from services and other 390 343 325 14 % 6 % Total net revenue $ 2,005 $ 1,671 $ 1,518 20 % 10 % Bio analytical measurement orders and revenues continue to grow with mid double digit growth in our major markets, and achieving record levels in 2007. Over the past 3 years, all geographies have contributed to the growth, with the highest growth rates in Asia and Europe. Orders for the year ended in October 31, 2007, grew 17 percent (Stratagene contributed 2 percent of this growth) when compared to 2006. We had solid growth across all geographies with the Americas up 8 percent, Europe up 19 percent and Asia up 15 percent year over year. In our chemical analysis business, we continued to see strength from petrochemical, food and environmental markets. In life sciences we saw demand from pharmaceutical companies, contract research organizations, and generic drug manufacturers. Revenue for the year ended October 31, 2007, grew 20 percent with strong results seen across both life sciences and chemical analysis end markets. These results include the impact of the Stratagene acquisition. The addition of Stratagenes core strengths will allow us to better serve life sciences customers by tuning our mutual products to improve specific application solutions. Stratagene contributed 2 percent of this growth for the year ended October 31, 2007. In life sciences, we saw particular strength in pharma and biotech. In chemical analysis, our sales in the petrochemical, environmental and food safety markets performed well. Proprietary supplies saw double digit quarterly growth with strength across both liquid chromatography ("LC") and gas chromatography ("GC") columns with applications in both the life sciences and chemical analysis businesses. Service revenues (point of sale and after market) associated with our instruments was also up year over year by 14 percent. 51 Chemical analysis orders, representing approximately 58 percent of bio analytical measurement, grew 14 percent in 2007 compared to 2006. Chemical analysis continues to see good demand for petrochemical, food and environmental testing solutions. High petrochemical profits continue to drive capital investments in both instrument replacements and upgrades. In food and environmental segments, increased testing demands from new regulations enacted in Europe and Asia, particularly China and India, drove results. These regulatory changes led to strong demand for our new gas chromatography, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry solutions. Also new products such as the triple quadrupole ("QQQ") mass spectrometer, which sells into these segments, were well received. In addition, higher average oil prices for the year continue to drive demand for our instrumentation in the hydrocarbon processing and petrochemical industries. Life science orders, representing approximately 42 percent of bio analytical measurement, grew 20 percent for the 2007 year compared to 2006 (Stratagene contributed 5 percent of this growth). We saw good demand from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, contract research organizations and generic drug manufacturers. Excluding acquisitions, our academia and government accounts continued to grow modestly compared to 2006. Our recent acquisition of Stratagene will help bolster our coverage in academia and government accounts. In the U.S., National Institutes of Health ("NIH") funding appears to be flat to declining making it difficult for suppliers of instruments and life sciences tools to grow significantly in this space. In Asia Pacific, government investments remain strong. Investments in Japan are focused on genomics, in China the focus is on drug testing and quality, while in India investments are concentrated in BioPharma research. From a product perspective, revenue growth for this market segment was driven by continued success of our new 1200 series LC platform, particularly the rapid resolution system, high performance LC columns, single quad , triple quad , quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometers, and microarrays. Looking forward, we expect growth to continue from our newer products such as rapid resolution LC and enhanced single quadrupole liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry, triple quadrupole mass spectrometry, quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometry, gas chromatography, gas chromatography mass spectrometry systems, and new product offerings from our recent acquisitions. Our strategic focus is to continue to enable customer applications and their productivity by providing industry and customer focused workflow solutions. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the bio analytical measurement businesss margins, expenses and income from operations for 2007 versus 2006, and 2006 versus 2005. Years Ended October 31, 2007 over 2006 Change 2006 over 2005 Change 2007 2006 2005 Total gross margin 54.1 % 52.6 % 50.5 % 2 ppts 2 ppts Operating margin 19.0 % 15.9 % 14.7 % 3 ppts 1 ppt (in millions) Research and development $ 164 $ 157 $ 147 4% 7% Selling, general and administrative $ 540 $ 456 $ 396 18% 15% Income from operations $ 381 $ 266 $ 223 43% 19% Gross margin in 2007 from products and services increased 2 percentage points compared to last year. The improvement in gross margin was driven by increased revenue, manufacturing overhead efficiencies, and a decrease in general infrastructure costs. Gross margins increased by 2 percentage 52 points in 2006 compared with 2005 due to revenue growth, improved microarray production processes, and increased efficiencies in support delivery. Research and development expenses in 2007 increased by 4 percent compared to last year. This increase is due to continued investment in life sciences, increase in headcount from acquisitions, program spending to support our new product releases for this year, and higher general infrastructure costs. Research and development costs increased by 7 percent in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to investment to support new product introductions, acquisition activity and Life Science businesses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses in 2007 increased 18 percent compared to last year. This is due to higher employee related costs, incremental headcount from acquisitions, product launch expense to support new product releases, and higher general infrastructure costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by 15 percent in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to increased infrastructure costs and integration expenses to support acquisitions. Operating margins increased by 3 percentage points in 2007 compared to 2006. This is due to higher revenues and operational efficiencies offsetting the higher investments we made in research and development and selling, general, and administrative to accommodate growth. In 2006, operating margins increased 1 percentage point compared to 2005, as we heavily invested in research and development and small headcount increases in selling, general, and administrative to support growth. Income from Operations Income from operations increased 43 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher revenues and operational efficiencies offsetting higher investments in research and development and higher employee related costs. Income from operations increased 19 percent in 2006 compared to 2005 due to increased revenue and operational efficiencies that offset higher investments and higher general infrastructure costs that were made in research and development and selling, general, and administrative to support our growth. Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Products Business On December 1, 2005, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business to Avago Technologies Ltd. ("Avago"). Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement ("APA"), Agilent received approximately $2.6 billion in cash proceeds. For further information, see Note 4, "Discontinued Operations of our Semiconductor Products Business", to our consolidated financial statements. 53 Discontinued operations results for our semiconductor products business, including the gain from sale in the year ended October 31, 2006, are summarized in the table below. In the year ended October 31, 2005, the results include the camera module business, which was sold in February 2005. Years Ended October 31, 2006 2005 (in millions) Net revenue $ 141 $ 1,796 Costs, expenses and other income (expense), net 133 1,564 Income from discontinued operations 8 232 Gain on sale of discontinued operations 1,816 Income from and gain on sale of discontinued operations before taxes 1,824 232 Provision for income taxes 8 46 Income from and gain on sale of discontinued operations, net $ 1,816 $ 186 Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business On August 15, 2005, Agilent announced its intention to separate its semiconductor test solutions business, Verigy, into a stand alone publicly traded company. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, Verigy completed the initial public offering ("IPO") of 8.7 million of its ordinary shares at a price of $15 per share for total net proceeds of $121 million. As part of the offering, Agilent made a payment to Verigy of $19 million, the amount by which the net IPO proceeds were insufficient to complete the agreed upon Verigy initial capitalization of $140 million. As a result of the IPO, Agilent recorded additional paid in capital of $74 million related to the excess of the IPO price over the book value of the shares sold. Following the offering, Agilent owned 50 million shares or approximately 85 percent of Verigys ordinary shares. On October 31, 2006, Agilent completed the spin off of Verigy by distributing its remaining 85 percent equity interest in Verigy to Agilent stockholders. The spin off was effected by way of a pro rata non cash dividend to Agilent stockholders, which reduced retained earnings by $310 million. In the distribution, Agilent distributed to its stockholders .122435 of an ordinary share of Verigy for each outstanding share of Agilent common stock owned as of close of market on October 16, 2006. In the aggregate, Agilent distributed 50 million Verigy ordinary shares to Agilent stockholders. Based on the closing price for Verigy ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on October 31, 2006 of $16.80 per share, the aggregate market value of the shares distributed in the distribution was $840 million. The historical results of Verigy have been reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. For further information, see Note 5, "Discontinued Operations of our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business", to our consolidated financial statements. 54 The following table summarizes results from discontinued operations for the presented periods ended October 31 included in the consolidated statement of operations: Years Ended October 31, 2006 2005 (in millions) Net revenue $ 777 $ 454 Costs and expenses 703 489 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 74 (35 ) Other income (expense), net (2 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations before taxes 74 (37 ) Provision for income taxes 20 13 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations $ 54 $ (50 ) Indemnifications In connection with the divestitures of our semiconductor products and semiconductor test businesses in 2006, we have provided indemnities to Verigy and Avago against certain damages which they might incur related to the businesses of Agilent not transferred to them and other defined categories of liability. These indemnity obligations are in addition to preexisting indemnities to Hewlett Packard in connection with our activities prior to our spin off from HP; indemnities to our officers and directors for certain liabilities which they might incur as a result of their service to Agilent; and other indemnifications which are customary in our industry or provided for in local law in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in connection with our commercial operations. These indemnities are described in greater detail in Note 16, "Guarantees", to our consolidated financial statements. Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial position as of October 31, 2007 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $1,826 million as compared to $2,262 million as of October 31, 2006. On May 11, 2007, we entered into a five year credit agreement, which provides for a $300 million unsecured credit facility that will expire on May 11, 2012. The company may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. To date the company has not borrowed under the facility, but may borrow from time to time as necessary. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities of Continuing Operations Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $969 million in 2007 compared to $431 million provided in 2006. In 2007, accounts receivable generated cash of $22 million as compared to cash generation of $8 million in 2006. Days sales outstanding improved to 46 days in 2007 as compared to 47 days in 2006. Though revenue increased by 9 percent year over year, decline in days sales outstanding reflects continuing improvement in receivables management. Accounts payable used cash of $13 million in 2007 versus cash generation of $56 million in 2006. Cash used for inventory was $21 million in 2007 compared to cash used of $55 million in 2006. Inventory days on hand decreased to 88 days in 2007 compared to 95 days in 2006. Improvement in both days sales outstanding and inventory days on hand reflect our improved working capital management in 2007 compared to 2006. 55 We paid $51 million in connection with the FY05 restructuring plan in 2007, primarily in the form of severance payments, compared to $166 million during 2006. The restructuring payments in 2006 were more than offset by proceeds from the real estate sales related to the consolidation of excess facilities as reported in the investing section below. We have also paid approximately $174 million in 2007 under our variable pay programs, as compared to $155 million paid out during 2006. Our variable pay program rewards employees based on the success of their business group, as well as Agilents overall performance. We paid approximately $86 million in taxes in 2007 as compared to $156 million in the same period in 2006. The higher tax payments in 2006 were mostly associated with the U.S. tax liability created in 2005 for repatriation of earnings from our foreign subsidiaries of $970 million under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, and with the 2005 federal alternate minimum tax. We contributed $8 million and $41 million to our U.S. defined benefit plans in 2007 and 2006, respectively. We contributed $37 million and $76 million to our non U.S. defined benefit plans in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our non U.S. defined benefit plans are generally funded ratably throughout the year. Total contributions in 2007 were $45 million or 62 percent less than 2006 due largely to an approximate $31 million contribution to Verigy pension plans in 2006. Our annual contributions are highly dependent on the relative performance of our assets versus our projected liabilities, among other factors. The reduced funding amounts in the U.S. were due to an improved funded status. We expect to contribute approximately $42 million to our U.S. and non U.S. defined benefit plans during 2008. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities of Continuing Operations Net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations in 2007 was $456 million compared to $1,838 million generated in 2006. Cash generation in 2006 was high due to the divestiture of our semiconductor products business for $2.5 billion, net of transaction costs and taxes. We also completed the sale of our ownership in Lumileds to Philips for $949 million. In 2006, restricted cash and cash equivalents, net increased by approximately $1.6 billion. We are required to hold restricted cash and cash equivalents due to the World Trade financing described under "net cash used in financing activities" below. Investments in property, plant and equipment were $154 million in 2007, as compared to investment of $185 million in 2006. The lower capital expenditure from last year was due to the site consolidation and relocation following the semiconductor products business divestiture and spin off of our semiconductor test solutions business in 2006. Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment were $12 million in 2007 as compared to $207 million in 2006. In 2006, we sold our Palo Alto and San Jose sites for a total consideration of approximately $186 million. In 2007, we invested $344 million in several acquisitions and intangible assets, net of cash acquired, including Stratagene, compared to $50 million in 2006. In 2007, proceeds from sale of assets and divestiture, net were $14 million. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities of Continuing Operations Net cash used in financing activities in 2007 was $980 million compared to $2,548 million used in 2006. In the fourth quarter of 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program of up to $2 billion of our common stock. In 2007, we completed this stock repurchase program and repurchased approximately 54 million shares for $1.94 billion. In 2006, we had repurchased 1.7 million shares for $56 million under this program. As of October 31, 2007, we have acquired approximately 56 181 million shares for approximately $6.5 billion, cumulatively, since the inception of repurchase programs in 2005. Proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans were $375 million in 2007 compared to $547 million in 2006. On November 15, 2007 our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program of up to $2 billion of Agilents common stock over the next two years. In October 2007, Agilent Technologies, Inc. entered into an underwriting agreement with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. Pursuant to the underwriting agreement, Agilent issued an aggregate principal amount of $600 million in senior notes in an underwritten public offering. The senior notes were issued at a price to the public of 99.60% of their principal amount. We received cash of $598 million in October, 2007. The Notes will mature on November 1, 2017, bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.50% per annum, payable semi annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year, commencing on May 1, 2008. Upon the closing of the offering of the senior notes, we entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $600 million. Under the interest rate swaps we will receive fixed rate interest payments and will make payments based on the six month US dollar LIBOR. The economic effect of these swaps will be to convert the fixed rate interest expense on the senior notes to a variable LIBOR based interest rate. In January 2006, Agilent Technologies World Trade, Inc., a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent ("World Trade"), entered into a Master Repurchase Agreement and related Confirmation (together, the "Repurchase Agreement") with a third party pursuant to which World Trade sold 15,000 Class A preferred shares of one of its wholly owned subsidiaries having an aggregate liquidation preference of $1.5 billion. Pursuant to the Repurchase Agreement, World Trade is obligated to repurchase from the third party those preferred shares for 100 percent of their aggregate liquidation preference in January 2011. The $1.5 billion obligation of our subsidiary to repurchase the preferred shares has been classified as long term debt on our consolidated balance sheet. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Other We have contractual commitments for non cancelable operating leases. See Note 17 "Commitments and Contingencies", to our consolidated financial statements for further information on our non cancelable operating leases. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of our business and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economics and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Local government regulations may restrict our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs under certain circumstances. We do not currently expect such regulations and restrictions to impact our ability to pay vendors and conduct operations throughout our global organization. On December 11, 2006, Moodys Investors Service ("Moodys") upgraded their corporate family rating and probability of default rating of Agilent from "Ba2" to "Ba1" and revised their rating outlook to positive, leaving unchanged the speculative grade liquidity rating of "SGL 1". On January 12, 2007, Standard & Poors Rating Services ("S&P") raised its corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings of Agilent to "BBB " from "BB+", with a "stable" ratings outlook. On March 22, 2007, Moodys lowered its outlook to "Stable" from "Positive" due to the companys announcement to accelerate its shares repurchase program. On March 29, 2007, Fitch Ratings initiated coverage of Agilent by assigning an issuer default rating of "BBB " with "Stable" outlook. 57 Contractual Commitments Our cash flows from operations are dependent on a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections, inventory management, and the timing of tax and other payments. As a result, the impact of contractual obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with such factors. The following table summarizes our total contractual obligations at October 31, 2007 for continuing operations and excludes amounts recorded in our consolidated balance sheet (in millions): Less than one year One to three years Three to five years More than five years Operating leases $ 78 $ 94 $ 42 $ 36 Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers 426 Other purchase commitments 25 20 5 2 Retirement plans 42 Total $ 571 $ 114 $ 47 $ 38 Operating leases. Commitments under operating leases relate primarily to leasehold property. Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, we issue purchase orders with estimates of our requirements several months ahead of the delivery dates. However, our agreements with these suppliers usually allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Typically purchase orders outstanding with delivery dates within 30 days are non cancelable. Therefore, only approximately 42 percent of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, non cancelable, and unconditional commitments. We expect to fulfill all purchase commitments for inventory within one year. In addition to the above, we record a liability for firm, non cancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with our policy relating to excess inventory. As of October 31, 2007, the liability for our firm, non cancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments was $6 million, compared with $9 million as of October 31, 2006. These amounts are included in other accrued liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. Other purchase commitments. These relate primarily to contracts with professional services suppliers. Purchase commitments are typically cancelable within a 90 day period without significant penalties. We had no material off balance sheet arrangements as of October 31, 2007 or October 31, 2006. 58  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. We hedge future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currency using sales forecasts up to twelve months in advance. Our exposure to exchange rate risks is managed on an enterprise wide basis. This strategy utilizes derivative financial instruments, including option and forward contracts, to hedge certain foreign currency exposures with the intent of offsetting gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures with gains and losses on the derivative contracts hedging them. We do not currently and do not intend to utilize derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Our operations generate non functional currency cash flows such as revenues, third party vendor payments and inter company payments. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of volatility of the currency market, we enter into such foreign exchange contracts as are described above to manage our currency risk. Approximately 64 percent of our revenues in 2007, 63 percent of our revenues in 2006 and 64 percent of our revenues in 2005 were generated in U.S. dollars. We performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign exchange rates to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. As of October 31, 2007 and October 31, 2006, the analysis indicated that these hypothetical market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 59   
