Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This report contains forward looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new product and service introductions, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from continuing operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and the divestiture of our semiconductor products and semiconductor test businesses, our stock repurchase program, our transition to lower cost regions, the existence or length of an economic recovery that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed in Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Overview and Executive Summary Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company") is the worlds premier measurement company, providing core bio analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. As of October 31, 2008, Agilent has two primary businesses focused on the electronic measurement market and the bio analytical measurement market. Our fiscal year end is October 31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year. In December 2005, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business. In 2006, we completed the initial public offering of our semiconductor test solutions business, Verigy Ltd. ("Verigy"). The results of our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Agilents net revenue from continuing operations in 2008 was $5,774 million, an increase of 7 percent in comparison to 2007. Foreign currency movements accounted for 3 percentage points of revenue growth compared to 2007. A further one percentage point of revenue growth in 2008 was attributable to acquisitions. Our bio analytical measurement business performed well throughout the year and net revenue in 2008 increased by 14 percent in comparison to 2007. Foreign currency movements and acquisitions accounted for 5 and 2 percentage points, respectively, of bio analytical measurement business revenue growth compared to 2007. Demand for our bio analytical measurement products and services increased across all markets in which our life science and chemical analysis businesses operate. In our electronic measurement business, net revenue in 2008 increased 2 percent in comparison to 2007. Adjusted for foreign currency movements, electronic measurement revenue declined one percent in 2008 compared to 2007. Our electronic measurement business saw reasonable growth in the communications test market, but a slight decline in the general purpose test market compared to 2007. Growth for the electronic measurement segment was led by broadband and wireless manufacturing test markets and wireless R&D. The decline in general purpose test was attributable to weakness in computer and semiconductor market. Agilents total net revenue in 2007 increased 9 percent in comparison to 2006. 36 Net income was $693 million in 2008 and $638 million in 2007. Net income in 2006 was $3,307 million, which included the income from and gain on sale of our semiconductor products business for $1,816 million, the income from the discontinued operations of our semiconductor test solutions business for $54 million and a gain of $901 million on the sale of our investment in Lumileds. In 2008, 2007 and 2006 we generated operating cash flows from continuing operations of $ 756 million, $969 million and $431 million, respectively. As of October 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 we had cash and cash equivalents balances $1,405 million, $1,826 million and $2,262 million, respectively. The recent capital and credit market crisis is adversely affecting the U.S. and global economies. This can have adverse effects on Agilents markets. Slower economic growth could lead to lower demand for Agilents products and services. Looking forward, we face challenging business conditions as the global economic environment deteriorates and the outlook is uncertain. Our primary strategy is to pursue profitable markets with our leading edge measurement solutions. Our operating model enables us to allocate resources to opportunities and to increase the variability of our cost structure. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, investment impairments, share based compensation, retirement and post retirement plan assumptions, valuation of long lived assets and accounting for income taxes. Revenue recognition. We enter into agreements to sell products (hardware or software), services, and other arrangements (multiple element arrangements) that include combinations of products and services. Revenue from product sales, net of trade discounts and allowances, is recognized provided that persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer. Revenue is reduced for estimated product returns, when appropriate. For sales that include customer specified acceptance criteria, revenue is recognized after the acceptance criteria have been met. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, product revenue is recognized upon delivery, and recognition of installation revenue occurs when the installation is complete. Otherwise, neither the product nor the installation revenue is recognized until the installation is complete. Revenue from services is deferred and recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. When arrangements include multiple elements, we use verifiable objective evidence of fair value or vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for software to allocate revenue to the elements and recognize revenue when the criteria for revenue recognition have been met for each element. The amount of product revenue recognized is affected by our judgments as to whether an arrangement includes multiple elements and if so, whether fair value exists for those elements. Changes to the elements in an arrangement and the ability to establish fair value for those elements could affect the timing of the revenue recognition. Inventory valuation. We assess the valuation of our inventory on a quarterly basis and periodically write down the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based upon estimates 37 about future demand and actual usage. Such estimates are difficult to make under most economic conditions. The excess balance determined by this analysis becomes the basis for our excess inventory charge. Our excess inventory review process includes analysis of sales forecasts, managing product rollovers and working with manufacturing to maximize recovery of excess inventory. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional write downs may be required. If actual market conditions are more favorable than anticipated, inventory previously written down may be sold to customers, resulting in lower cost of sales and higher income from operations than expected in that period. Investment impairments. We recognize an impairment charge when the decline in the fair value of our equity and debt securities and our cost method investments below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. Significant judgment is used to identify events or circumstances that would likely have a significant adverse effect on the future use of the investment. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other than temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, forecasted recovery, the financial condition and near term prospects of the investee, and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. Share based compensation. We account for share based awards in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (R), Shared Based Payment ("SFAS No. 123 (R)") which was effective November 1, 2005 for Agilent. Under the standard, share based compensation expense is primarily based on estimated grant date fair value which generally uses the Black Scholes option pricing model and is recognized on a straight line basis for awards granted after November 1, 2005 over the vesting period of the award. For awards issued prior to November 1, 2005, we recognize share based compensation expense based on FASB Interpretation 28 "Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans an interpretation of APB Opinions No. 15 and 25", which provides for accelerated expensing. Our estimate of share based compensation expense requires a number of complex and subjective assumptions including our stock price volatility, employee exercise patterns (expected life of the options), future forfeitures and related tax effects. We consider several factors in estimating the expected life of our options granted, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees, which we believe are representative of future behavior. We estimate the stock price volatility using the implied volatility of Agilents publicly traded stock options. We have determined that implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than a combined method of determining volatility. In reaching this conclusion, we have considered many factors including the extent to which our options are traded and our ability to find traded options with similar terms and prices to the options we are valuing. A 10 percent increase in our estimated volatility from 31 percent to 41 percent for our most recent employee stock option grant would generally increase the value of an award and the associated compensation cost by approximately 23 percent if no other factors were changed. In the first quarter of 2007, we revised our estimate of the expected life of our employee stock options from 4.25 years to 4.6 years. In revising this estimate, we considered several factors, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees. In the first quarter of 2007, we granted the majority of our employee stock options to executive employees and the review of our data indicated that our executive employees, on average, exercise their options at 4.6 years. In 2007, we granted restricted stock units (rather than stock options) to the majority of our employee base that received equity compensation. See Note 3, "Share Based Compensation," to the consolidated financial statements for more information. 38 The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share based awards represent our best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, changes in assumptions could materially impact our reported financial results. Retirement and post retirement benefit plan assumptions. Retirement and post retirement benefit plan costs are a significant cost of doing business. They represent obligations that will ultimately be settled sometime in the future and therefore are subject to estimation. Pension accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employees average expected future service to Agilent based on the terms of the plans and investment and funding decisions. To estimate the impact of these future payments and our decisions concerning funding of these obligations, we are required to make assumptions using actuarial concepts within the framework of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Two critical assumptions are the discount rate and the expected long term return on plan assets. Other important assumptions include the health care cost trend rate, expected future salary increases, expected future increases to benefit payments, expected retirement dates, employee turnover, retiree mortality rates, and portfolio composition. We evaluate these assumptions at least annually. The discount rate is used to determine the present value of future benefit payments at the measurement date October 31 for U.S. plans and September 30 for non U.S plans. The U.S. discount rates were determined by matching the expected plan benefit payments against an industry discount curve. The discount rate increased significantly over the prior year from 6.25 percent to 8.5 percent due to higher bond yields. The discount rate for non U.S. plans was generally based on published rates for high quality corporate bonds and either remained unchanged or increased. Lower discount rates increase present values and subsequent year pension expense; higher discount rates decrease present values and subsequent year pension expense. The expected long term return on plan assets is estimated using current and expected asset allocations as well as historical and expected returns. Plan assets are valued at fair market value. A one percent change in the estimated long term return on plan assets for 2008 would result in a $4 million impact on U.S. pension expense and a $14 million impact on non U.S. pension expense. The net periodic pension and post retirement benefit costs recorded in continuing operations excluding curtailments and settlements were $15 million in 2008, $57 million in 2007, and $81 million in 2006. Valuation of long lived assets. We performed our annual goodwill impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of 2008. Based on our estimates of forecasted discounted cash flows and our market capitalization at that time, we concluded that our goodwill was not impaired. We have also assessed the recoverability of our long lived assets, by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted future cash flows. Asset impairments primarily consist of property, plant and equipment and are based on an estimate of the amounts and timing of future cash flows related to the expected future remaining use and ultimate sale or disposal of buildings and equipment net of costs to sell. During 2008, we incurred $2 million of asset impairment charges. In addition, we recorded $6 million of investment impairment charges during 2008. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles is highly subjective and requires significant judgment. We estimate expected future cash flows of our various businesses, which operate in a number of markets and geographical regions. We then determine the carrying value of these businesses. We exercise judgment in assigning and allocating certain assets and liabilities to these businesses. We then compare the carrying value including goodwill and other 39 intangibles to the discounted future cash flows. If the total of future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. Estimates of the future cash flows associated with the assets are critical to these assessments. Changes in these estimates based on changed economic conditions or business strategies could result in material impairment charges in future periods. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of long lived assets such as our property, plant and equipment is also highly subjective and requires significant judgment. In order to estimate the fair value of long lived assets, we typically make various assumptions about the future prospects for the business that the asset relates to, consider market factors specific to that business and estimate future cash flows to be generated by that business. Based on these assumptions and estimates, we determine whether we need to take an impairment charge to reduce the value of the asset stated on our balance sheet to reflect its estimated fair value. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives are complex and often subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as the real estate market, industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, changes in assumptions and estimates could materially impact our reported financial results. Accounting for income taxes. We must make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax credits, benefits and deductions, and in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes, as well as interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. Significant changes to these estimates may result in an increase or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period. Significant management judgment is also required in determining whether deferred tax assets will be realized in full or in part. When it is more likely than not that all or some portion of specific deferred tax assets such as net operating losses or foreign tax credit carryforwards will not be realized, a valuation allowance must be established for the amount of the deferred tax assets that cannot be realized. We consider all available positive and negative evidence on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis when assessing whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. We consider evidence such as our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. At October 31, 2008, we provided partial valuation allowances for our U.S. deferred tax assets and full or partial valuation allowances on certain foreign deferred tax assets. We intend to maintain partial or full valuation allowances until sufficient positive evidence exists to support reversal of a valuation allowance in a given taxing jurisdiction. We have not provided for all U.S. federal income and foreign withholding taxes on the undistributed earnings of some of our foreign subsidiaries because we intend to reinvest such earnings indefinitely. Should we decide to remit this income to the U.S. in a future period, our provision for income taxes may increase materially in that period. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax law and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. Although FASB Interpretation No. 48, which we adopted at the beginning of fiscal 2008, provides further clarification on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, the new threshold and measurement attributes prescribed by the pronouncement will continue to require significant judgment by management. If the ultimate resolution of tax uncertainties is different from what is currently estimated, a material impact on income tax expense could result. 40 Foreign Currency Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short term and anticipated basis. We do experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the consolidated statement of operations and balance sheet because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short term basis (rolling twelve month period). Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. Results from Continuing Operations Orders and Net Revenue Years Ended October 31, 2008 over 2007 % Change 2007 over 2006 % Change 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Orders $ 5,750 $ 5,441 $ 5,075 6 % 7 % Net revenue: Products $ 4,804 $ 4,505 $ 4,125 7 % 9 % Services and other $ 970 $ 915 $ 848 6 % 8 % Total net revenue $ 5,774 $ 5,420 $ 4,973 7 % 9 % Years Ended October 31, 2008 over 2007 Ppts Change 2007 over 2006 Ppts Change 2008 2007 2006 % of total net revenue: Products 83 % 83 % 83 % Services and other 17 % 17 % 17 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Net revenue in 2008 was $5,774 million, a 7 percent increase over the $5,420 million net revenue recorded in 2007. Foreign currency movements accounted for 3 percentage points of revenue growth compared to 2007. A further one percentage point of revenue growth in 2008 was attributable to bio analytical acquisitions. Net revenue in 2007 was $5,420 million, a 9 percent increase over the $4,973 million net revenue recorded in 2006. The bio analytical measurement segment achieved revenue growth for the year of 14 percent with increases in both life science and chemical analysis businesses. Foreign currency movements and acquisitions accounted for 5 and 2 percentage points, respectively, of bio analytical measurement revenue growth compared to 2007. In life science, revenue from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology markets increased but capital spending within those markets is under pressure leading to a slow down in demand. Revenue from academic and government markets increased and was assisted in large part by the contributions made by Stratagene and Velocity11. In chemical analysis we saw strong growth in petrochemical and food safety markets and more modest growth in environmental testing. The petrochemical market continued to grow with replacement demand and plant expansion. The food safety market continued to be strong as the food industry is under continued pressure to ensure safety. In 2007, our bio analytical business performed very well throughout the year and net revenue in 2007 41 increased by 20 percent in comparison to 2006. Demand for our products and services increased across every market in which our life sciences and chemical analysis businesses operated. Our electronic measurement business saw a 2 percent revenue growth overall with an increase in communications test market and a slight decline in the general purpose test market. Adjusted for foreign currency movements, electronic measurement revenue declined one percent in 2008 compared to 2007. The communications test business increased revenues in the broadband and wireless manufacturing test markets and wireless R&D. In the general purpose test business the aerospace/defense market increased in the first six months of 2008, but has been flat in the second six months of this year due to delays in spending and budgetary pressures. The computer and semiconductor markets decreased and remain under considerable pressure with consumer electronics spending down and manufacturers delaying capital investments. In 2007, our electronic measurement net revenue increased 3 percent in comparison to 2006. Growth for the electronic measurement segment was led by aerospace/defense and wireline/wireless research and development. There was a reduction in revenues in the wireless manufacturing market during the year as the industry experienced excess capacity in handset test. Services and other revenue include revenue generated from servicing our installed base of products, warranty extensions and consulting. Services and other revenue increased 6 percent as compared to 2007. Backlog On October 31, 2008, our unfilled orders for the electronic measurement business were approximately $660 million, as compared to approximately $750 million at October 31, 2007. On October 31, 2008, our unfilled orders for the bio analytical measurement business were approximately $370 million, as compared to approximately $290 million at October 31, 2007. We expect that a large majority of the unfilled orders for both businesses will be delivered to customers within nine months. On average, our unfilled orders represent approximately two months worth of revenues. In light of this experience, backlog on any particular date, while indicative of short term revenue performance, is not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long term revenue performance. Costs and Expenses Years Ended October 31, 2008 over 2007 Change 2007 over 2006 Change 2008 2007 2006 Gross margin on products 57.7 % 57.2 % 56.4 % 1 ppt 1 ppt Gross margin on services and other 43.5 % 42.8 % 39.2 % 1 ppt 4 ppts Total gross margin 55.4 % 54.8 % 53.4 % 1 ppt 1 ppt Operating margin 13.8 % 10.8 % 9.3 % 3 ppts 2 ppts (in millions) Research and development $ 704 $ 685 $ 655 3% 5% Selling, general and administrative $ 1,697 $ 1,700 $ 1,660 2% In 2008, total gross margin increased one percentage point in comparison to 2007. Operating margins in 2008 increased 3 percentage points as compared to 2007. Research and development expenditure has risen modestly by 3 percent and we have controlled selling, general and administrative expenses during the year and including both the effects of currency and acquisitions 42 they have remained flat compared to 2007. Operating margins in 2007 increased 2 percentage points as compared to 2006. In 2007, total gross margin increased 1 percentage point in comparison to 2006. Operating margins in 2007 increased 2 percentage points as compared to 2006. Research and development expenditure rose modestly and we had tightly controlled selling, general and administrative expenses during the year. We experienced an unfavorable impact in gross and operating margins due to the comparative weakness of the U.S. dollar and Japanese Yen denominated revenues against the Euro and Malaysian Ringgit costs only partially offset by hedging gains. Gross inventory charges were $24 million in 2008, $21 million in 2007 and $38 million in 2006. Sales of previously reserved inventory were $6 million in 2008, $5 million in 2007 and $14 million in 2006. Our research and development efforts focus on potential new products and product improvements covering a wide variety of technologies, none of which is individually significant to our operations. We conduct five types of research and development: basic research, which contributes to the fundamental understanding of areas critical to our future; foundation technologies, which enables fundamental advances across all businesses; communications, which creates technologies to enable pervasive access to information; life sciences, which enables next generation pharmaceuticals and improved patient outcomes; and measurement, which provides critical advances in test and measurement electronics and systems. Our research seeks to improve on various technical competencies in electronics such as compound semiconductor devices, digital imaging systems and microfabrication technologies; software, systems and solutions such as applied mathematics, knowledge management and measurement science; life sciences such as computational biology, molecular diagnostics and high throughput measurements; and photonics, such as precision automation technology, optical switching and high speed optical links. In each of these research fields, we conduct research that is focused on specific product development for release in the short term as well as other research that is intended to be the foundation for future products over a longer time horizon. Some of our product development research is designed to improve on the more than 20,000 products already in production, other research is on major new product releases, and yet other focused on developing new product segments for the future. Due to the breadth of research and development projects across all of our businesses, there are a number of drivers of this expense. Income from continuing operations in 2008 was $693 million. Income from continuing operations in 2007 was $638 million. Income from continuing operations in 2006 was $1,437 million, which includes a gain of $901 million for the sale of our investment in Lumileds, an equity investment. At October 31, 2008, our headcount, on a continuing operations basis, was approximately 19,600 compared to 19,400 in 2007 and 18,700 in 2006. Provision for Income Taxes from Continuing Operations Years Ended October 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Provision for income taxes $ 122 $ 32 $ 91 For 2008, the annual effective tax rate was 15.0 percent on continuing operations. The 15.0 percent continuing operations tax rate includes a beneficial release of a portion of the U.S. federal and state valuation allowances which results in U.S. tax expense of nearly zero. It also includes tax on 43 earnings in other jurisdictions that have low effective tax rates. Without considering interest and penalties, the provision for taxes was recorded for income generated in jurisdictions other than the Netherlands, Puerto Rico, Switzerland, the U.S., and the U.K. where we have recorded valuation allowances. We intend to maintain partial or full valuation allowances in these jurisdictions until sufficient positive evidence exists to support the reversal of the valuation allowances. For 2007, the annual effective tax rate was 4.8 percent on continuing operations. The 4.8 percent continuing operations tax rate reflects taxes at an effective tax rate of zero in the U.S. (due to a release of a significant portion of the valuation allowance) and at low effective tax rates in other jurisdictions. The low continuing operations tax rate includes a benefit of $31 million related to valuation allowance adjustments based on changes in other comprehensive income items, portions of which are attributable to increases in currency translation adjustments and to increases in the value of certain stock investments. In addition, the tax rate includes benefits totaling $73 million related to the resolution of primarily non U.S. tax issues associated with the 2000 spin off of Agilent from Hewlett Packard. For 2006, the annual effective tax rate was 6.0 percent on continuing operations. The 6.0 percent continuing operations tax rate reflects taxes on the sale of our Lumileds joint venture at an effective tax rate of zero in the U.S. (due to the operation of the valuation allowance) and at low effective tax rates in other jurisdictions. In addition, the low continuing operations tax rate is a result of the $29 million benefit related to the resolution of issues covered by a Tax Sharing Agreement between Agilent and Hewlett Packard. The tax rate for continuing operations does not include the impact of income from low tax jurisdictions generated by our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business which are now reported as discontinued operations. Agilent enjoys tax holidays in several different jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore, Malaysia and Switzerland. The tax holidays provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require various thresholds of investments and employment in those jurisdictions. As a result of the incentives, the impact of the tax holidays decreased income taxes by $112 million, $190 million and $76 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was approximately $0.30, $0.47 and $0.17 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. During 2003, we established valuation allowances for the deferred tax assets of the U.S. and certain entities in foreign jurisdictions. The valuation allowances were determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS No. 109") which require an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. During 2007, we concluded that it is more likely than not that a significant portion of our U.S. federal deferred tax assets would be realized and reversed a portion of the valuation allowance. During 2008, we maintained a partial U.S. federal valuation allowance and concluded that a significant portion of our U.S. state deferred tax assets would be realized and reversed a portion of the valuation allowance. The valuation allowance increased substantially as a result of changes to other comprehensive income related taxes for pensions, certain mark to market investments, currency translation adjustments and an increase in the amount of foreign tax credits. Cumulative losses incurred by certain entities in foreign jurisdictions in recent years represent sufficient negative evidence to require maintaining full valuation allowances. During 2008, we established a partial valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets of one foreign entity. We intend to maintain partial or full valuation allowances until sufficient positive evidence exists to support reversal of a valuation allowance in a given taxing jurisdiction. 44 Effective at the beginning of the first quarter of 2008, we adopted FIN No. 48 "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN No. 48"). FIN No. 48 contains a two step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109. The first step is to evaluate each uncertain tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. As a result of the implementation of FIN No. 48, we increased the liability for net unrecognized tax benefits by $74 million, and accounted for the increase as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle that resulted in a decrease to retained earnings of $74 million. The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits as of the date of adoption was $915 million. We historically classified unrecognized tax benefits in current taxes payable, or as reductions to tax receivables or net deferred tax assets when appropriate. As a result of adopting FIN No. 48, approximately $355 million of unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties were reclassified to long term income taxes payable from current taxes payable. Most of these gross unrecognized tax benefits would affect the effective tax rate, if realized. We continue to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes on the consolidated statements of operations. As of the date of adoption of FIN No. 48, we had accrued $35 million for the payment of interest and penalties relating to unrecognized tax benefits. Our U.S. federal income tax returns for 2000 through 2002 have been under audit by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). In August 2007, we received a Revenue Agents Report ("RAR"). In the RAR, the IRS proposes to assess a net tax deficiency, after applying available net operating losses from the years under audit and undisputed tax credits, for those years of approximately $405 million, plus penalties of approximately $160 million and interest. If the IRS were to fully prevail, our net operating loss and tax credits generated in recent years would be utilized earlier than they otherwise would have been, and our annual effective tax rate will have increased as a result. The RAR addresses several issues. One issue, however, relating to the use of Agilents brand name by our foreign affiliates, accounts for a majority of the claimed tax deficiency. We believe that the claimed IRS adjustment for this issue in particular is inconsistent with applicable tax laws and that we have meritorious defenses to this claim. Therefore, we have not included any tax for this item in our tax provision for 2007 or 2008. We have filed a formal protest and will address these matters with the Appeals Office of the IRS. In the protest, we vigorously opposed the claim associated with Agilents brand name, and most of the other claimed adjustments proposed in the RAR. In April of 2008, we received a rebuttal to our formal protest, and after reviewing the IRSs arguments, our assessment of the risks remains the same. The final resolution of the proposed adjustments is uncertain and may take several years. Based on current information, it is our opinion that the ultimate disposition of these matters is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. For all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. 45  Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliate and Gain on Sale Lumileds Agilent sold its interest in Lumileds on November 28, 2005. Lumileds was a global joint venture between Agilent and KoninklijkePhilips Electronics N.V. ("Philips"). Lumileds manufactures high power light emitting diodes and solid state lighting solutions. Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, upon closure of the sale transaction, the Joint Venture Agreement and the ancillary agreements were terminated. The purchase price paid by Philips under the Share Purchase Agreement was $949 million. In addition, Lumileds repaid the $51 million of outstanding principal debt and accrued interest under the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2001. Our equity in the net income of our unconsolidated affiliate including the 2006 gain on sale of our interest in Lumileds was $901 million in 2006. Global Infrastructure Organization Our infrastructure costs decreased by one percent in relative terms compared to 2007. The global infrastructure organization passes these costs on to our businesses according to usage of services provided. From a headcount perspective, over the years, we have reduced the number of employees in our workforce that provide support services such as finance, IT and workplace services and moved many of our global shared services operations sites to lower cost regions. The global infrastructure organization ended 2008 with approximately 2,495 employees, a decrease of 22 employees from one year ago and a decrease of 234 employees from two years ago. Over the past two years on a region basis, our headcount has dropped by 227 people in the Americas and Europe and by 7 in Asia. Segment Overview Agilent is a measurement company providing core bio analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. As of October 31, 2008, Agilent has two primary businesses focused on the electronic measurement market and the bio analytical measurement market. Electronic Measurement Our electronic measurement business provides standard and customized electronic measurement instruments and systems monitoring, management and optimization tools for communications networks and services, software design tools and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment and communications networks and services. Related services include start up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customers product lifecycle. Orders and Net Revenue Years Ended October 31, 2008 over 2007 Change 2007 over 2006 Change 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Orders $ 3,385 $ 3,415 $ 3,336 (1 )% 2 % Net revenue from products $ 2,962 $ 2,890 $ 2,797 2 % 3 % Net revenue from services and other 517 525 505 (2 )% 4 % Total net revenue $ 3,479 $ 3,415 $ 3,302 2 % 3 % 46 Electronic measurement orders declined 1 percent in 2008, down from 2 percent growth experienced in 2007 compared to 2006. On a geographic basis, orders grew 7 percent in Europe and declined 4 percent in the Americas and 2 percent in Asia and Japan, respectively. In 2007, orders grew 2 percent as growth in the Americas and Europe was offset by declines in Asia, most notably in Japan. Order growth in 2007 was driven by strength in aerospace/defense and general purpose markets, which was offset by declines in the wireless manufacturing and communications market. Electronic measurement revenue grew 2 percent in 2008 compared to a 3 percent increase in 2007 as strength in the communications test market was offset by a slight decline in general purpose test. Regionally, revenue from the Americas grew 1 percent, Europe grew 6 percent and Asia grew 1 percent from one year ago. Adjusted for foreign currency movements, electronic measurement revenue declined 1 percentage point in 2008 compared to 2007. In 2007, revenue grew 3 percent with growth in general purpose markets offset by declines in communications test and regional growth in the Americas and Europe offset by declines in Asia. Revenue growth in 2007 was driven by the ongoing global economic expansion and steady consumer electronics spending in the general purpose market. General purpose test revenue, representing approximately 58 percent of electronic measurement, declined 1 percent to $2,027 million in 2008 compared to 2007. Within general purpose test, growth in aerospace and defense and other general purpose test business was offset by a decline in the computer and semiconductor test market. Intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance markets were strong applications for radio frequency ("RF") content, as well as communications and networking. The computer and semiconductor measurement markets were down compared to last year due to a sharp decline in the parametric test market and weakness in semiconductor related capital equipment market, while our digital test business improved over last year. Overall general test markets have weakened in the second half of the year due to on going weakness in electronic manufacturing and semiconductor test markets and softening in aerospace/defense and general purpose markets. Communications test revenue, representing approximately 42 percent of electronic measurement, grew 7 percent to $1,452 million in 2008 compared to 2007. The year over year growth was driven by strength in broadband and wireless manufacturing test markets, as well as wireless R&D and electronic design automation ("EDA"). Weakness in the communications test market was isolated to the network monitoring and installation and maintenance markets. Strength in broadband R&D and manufacturing test continues to be driven by the convergence of an all internet protocol based network for service delivery including video, voice, data, and mobile services. Investment in wireless manufacturing was driven largely by the growth in "smart" phones, while wireless R&D test focused primarily on high speed applications, as well as pre conformance and interoperability test solutions. A pause in demand for WiMax test solutions in the second half of the year was offset by on going demand for next generation cellular technologies test applications. Looking forward, we expect continued weakness in our electronic measurement business. Given the current market uncertainty and volatility, these markets are expected to decline due to on going weakness in electronic manufacturing and semiconductor test markets and broader market weakness. Growth opportunities are expected to be limited to the expansion of wireless 3G coverage and services (high data rate, multi media services supported by multi functional handsets), emerging cellular technologies, and continued opportunities in broadband access, voice over internet protocol and fiber to the home, due to consumer demand for voice/data/video converged services. We believe the aerospace and defense markets trend of investment in areas of signal intelligence, communications, surveillance and information warfare bodes well for long term growth. These growth opportunities are expected to be tempered by slowdowns in capital spending, government budget delays or reductions, continued contraction in the semiconductor test market and the current global economic uncertainty. 47 Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the electronic measurement businesss margins, expenses and income from operations for 2008 versus 2007 and 2007 versus 2006. Years Ended October 31, 2008 over 2007 Change 2007 over 2006 Change 2008 2007 2006 Total gross margin 57.9 % 57.0 % 55.7 % 1 ppt 1 ppt Operating margin 14.0 % 11.4 % 11.8 % 3 ppts (in millions) Research and development $ 489 $ 503 $ 460 (3)% 9% Selling, general and administrative $ 1,038 $ 1,053 $ 989 (1)% 6% Income from operations $ 488 $ 390 $ 390 25% Gross margins for products and services improved by 1 percentage point year over year in 2008 as the favorable impact of foreign currency movement and lower overhead costs were partially offset by changes in product mix and pricing pressure. Gross margins for products and services increased 1 percentage point in 2007 compared to 2006 as margin improvements due to lower infrastructure costs, lower material costs and a functional change in global infrastructure cost allocation were partially offset by changes in product mix. Research and development expenses in 2008 decreased 3 percent compared to 2007. This decline was driven largely by operational spending reductions that more than offset the unfavorable year over year impact of currency movements. Research and development expenses in 2007 increased 9 percent compared to 2006 due to investment in new technologies, acquisitions, the impact of currency movements and a functional change in global infrastructure cost classification. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2008 decreased 1 percent compared to 2007. This decline was due to reductions in operational and discretionary spending that reflect the savings delivered through cost reduction programs and expense controls, which was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency movement. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 6 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 due to investment in support of growth initiatives, acquisitions, and the impact of currency movements. Operating margins increased by 3 percentage points in 2008 compared to 2007 due to gross margin improvement and structural expense reductions. Operating margins were essentially flat in 2007 compared to 2006 as gross margin improvements were offset by increased investment in research and development, as well as selling, general and administrative expenses. Income from Operations Income from operations increased by $98 million in 2008 compared to 2007 on a revenue increase of $64 million, a 153 percent year over year operating margin incremental due to structural expense reductions. Income from operations was relatively flat in 2007 compared to 2006 on a revenue increase of $113 million as higher volume was offset by increases in research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. Bio analytical Measurement Our bio analytical measurement business provides application focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and 48 analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our key product categories include: microarrays, microfluidics, gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, laser interferometry and microscopy, software and informatics, and related consumables, reagents and services. Orders and Net Revenue Years Ended October 31, 2008 over 2007 Change 2007 over 2006 Change 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Orders $ 2,365 $ 2,026 $ 1,739 17 % 17 % Net revenue from products $ 1,842 $ 1,615 $ 1,328 14 % 22 % Net revenue from services and other 453 390 343 16 % 14 % Total net revenue $ 2,295 $ 2,005 $ 1,671 14 % 20 % Our bio analytical measurement business continues sustained momentum with growth in orders and revenues on a year to year basis. Results were consistent with our normal seasonal patterns and reflected the strong demand across most of our markets. Bio analytical measurement orders in 2008 grew 17 percent when compared to 2007. The Stratagene and Velocity11 acquisitions contributed 2 percentage points of the order growth in 2008, when compared to 2007. We had growth across all geographies with Americas up 16 percent, Europe up 14 percent and Asia up 21 percent when compared to 2007. Foreign currency movements in 2008 accounted for 5 percentage points of the growth in orders when compared to 2007. In our chemical analysis business, we continue to see strength from petrochemical and food safety markets. In life sciences, we saw sustained demand from academic and government markets, offsetting a slowdown in pharmaceutical and biotechnology markets. In 2007, orders grew 17 percent; Stratagene contributed 2 percentage points of this growth, when compared to 2006. Bio analytical measurement revenues in 2008 grew 14 percent compared to 2007 with solid results seen across both life sciences and chemical analysis end markets. The Stratagene and Velocity11 acquisitions contributed 2 percentage points of the revenue growth in 2008, when compared to 2007. Foreign currency movements in 2008 accounted for 5 percentage points of the revenue growth when compared to 2007. Geographically, revenues were up 15 percent in the Americas, 9 percent in Europe, and 23 percent in Asia in 2008 compared to 2007. In 2007, revenues grew 20 percent compared to 2006 due to the impact of the Stratagene acquisition. The addition of Stratagene contributed to 2 percentage points of the 2007 growth. Chemical analysis revenue, representing approximately 55 percent of the bio analytical measurement segment, increased 9 percent to $1,272 million in 2008 compared to 2007. Chemical analysis continues to see strength from petrochemical and food safety market, and relatively modest growth in environmental testing solutions. High petrochemical profits continue to drive capital investments in both instrument replacements and upgrades. Food testing also posted strong revenue growth in 2008. Growth in this sector was driven by updated regulations in China, Malaysia and India following recent food safety issues in the U.S. and by the overall increases made to regulatory standards worldwide. Material Sciences is experiencing a decrease in sales into the semiconductor related capital equipment market. Life science revenue, representing approximately 45 percent of the bio analytical measurement segment, increased 23 percent to $1,023 million in 2008 compared to 2007. The Stratagene and 49 Velocity11 acquisitions accounted for 11 percentage points of the growth in 2008, when compared to 2007. In 2008, we saw a slowdown in the pharmaceutical and biotech markets, while our academic and government markets grew at strong rates. Our acquisition of Stratagene is bolstering our coverage in academic and government customer accounts. Academic research is moving toward the use of high end mass spectrometry instrumentation to answer complex biological questions and enhance research on proteins, peptides, and small molecules. The market continues to see more partnerships and collaborations between not for profit organizations and big pharma and biotech. In Asia Pacific, governments are investing in the modernization of their healthcare systems and in improving the quality of pharmaceuticals they produce. Looking forward, we expect modest growth in our major markets. Our chemical analysis market growth is expected to be driven by investments in food safety on a global basis and in environmental testing in China, India and selected Eastern European countries. Our liquid chromatography/mass spectroscopy ("LC/MS") and gas chromatography/mass spectroscopy ("GC/MS") systems are well positioned to address these market needs. In life sciences we are positioned with our recent acquisitions to expand the range of our technology offering along the life sciences workflow. Workflow solutions can span from sample delivery and preparation through sample measurement to data analysis and management. In addition, our ongoing expansion of the LC/MS portfolio, augmented with focused R&D programs will enable Agilent to address the proteomics and metabolomics market needs. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the bio analytical measurement businesss margins, expenses and income from operations for 2008 versus 2007, and 2007 versus 2006. Years Ended October 31, 2008 over 2007 Change 2007 over 2006 Change 2008 2007 2006 Total gross margin 53.5 % 53.5 % 52.1 % 1 ppt Operating margin 17.4 % 16.4 % 14.0 % 1 ppt 2 ppts (in millions) Research and development $ 208 $ 172 $ 164 21% 5% Selling, general and administrative $ 621 $ 572 $ 472 8% 21% Income from operations $ 400 $ 329 $ 235 22% 40% Gross margins were flat in 2008 compared to 2007, as improvements in product mix and overhead costs were offset by the impact of foreign currency movements and competitive pressures. Gross margins improved by 1 percentage point in 2007 compared to 2006 mainly driven by increased revenue, manufacturing overhead efficiencies, and a decrease in global infrastructure costs. Research and development expenses grew 21 percent in 2008, compared to 2007. The Stratagene and Velocity11 acquisitions accounted for 12 percentage points of this growth in 2008 compared to 2007. Excluding Stratagene and Velocity11, this growth was driven by our investments in research, development facilities in life sciences and the impact of foreign currency movement. Research and development expenses grew 5 percent in 2007 compared to 2006 due to continued investment in life sciences, increase in headcount from acquisitions, program spending to support our new product releases and higher global infrastructure costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 8 percent in 2008 compared to 2007. The Stratagene and Velocity11 acquisitions accounted for 8 percentage points of this growth in 2008 compared to 2007. In 2007, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 21 percent 50 compared to 2006 due to incremental headcount from acquisitions and higher global infrastructure costs. Operating margins increased by 1 percentage point in 2008 compared to 2007. This was due to higher revenues and operational efficiencies offsetting the higher investments made in research and development and selling, general, and administrative to accommodate growth. In 2007, operating margins increased 2 percentage points compared to 2006, due to higher revenues and operational efficiencies offsetting the higher investments we made in research and development and selling, general, and administrative to accommodate growth. Income from Operations Income from operations in 2008 increased by $71 million or 22 percentage points, while our operating margins in 2008 improved 1 percentage point. Income from operations in 2007 increased by $94 million or 40 percent compared to 2006. Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Products Business On December 1, 2005, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business to Avago Technologies Ltd. ("Avago"). Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement ("APA"), Agilent received approximately $2.6 billion in cash proceeds. The historical results of Avago have been reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. See Note 4 "Discontinued Operations of our Semiconductor Products Business" to our consolidated financial statements for further information. Results from our discontinued operations of our semiconductor products business, including the gain from sale for the year ended October 31, 2006, are summarized in the table below. Year Ended October 31, 2006 (in millions) Net revenue $ 141 Costs, expenses and other income (expense), net 133 Income from discontinued operations 8 Gain on sale of discontinued operations 1,816 Income from and gain on sale of discontinued operations before taxes 1,824 Provision for income taxes 8 Income from and gain on sale of discontinued operations, net $ 1,816 Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business On August 15, 2005, Agilent announced its intention to separate its semiconductor test solutions business, Verigy, into a stand alone publicly traded company. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, Verigy completed the initial public offering ("IPO") of 8.7 million of its ordinary shares at a price of $15 per share for total net proceeds of $121 million. As part of the offering, Agilent made a payment to Verigy of $19 million, the amount by which the net IPO proceeds were insufficient to complete the agreed upon Verigy initial capitalization of $140 million. As a result of the IPO, Agilent recorded additional paid in capital of $74 million related to the excess of the IPO price over the book value of the 51 shares sold. Following the offering, Agilent owned 50 million shares or approximately 85 percent of Verigys ordinary shares. On October 31, 2006, Agilent completed the spin off of Verigy by distributing its remaining 85 percent equity interest in Verigy to Agilent stockholders. The spin off was effected by way of a pro rata non cash dividend to Agilent stockholders, which reduced retained earnings by $310 million. In the distribution, Agilent distributed to its stockholders .122435 of an ordinary share of Verigy for each outstanding share of Agilent common stock owned as of close of market on October 16, 2006. In aggregate, Agilent distributed 50 million Verigy ordinary shares to Agilent stockholders. Based on the closing price for Verigy ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on October 31, 2006 of $16.80 per share, the aggregate market value of the shares distributed in the distribution was $840 million. The historical results of Verigy have been reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. See Note 5 "Discontinued Operations of our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business" to our consolidated financial statements for further information. Results from our discontinued operations of our semiconductor test solutions business for the year ended October 31, 2006, are summarized in the table below. Year Ended October 31, 2006 (in millions) Net revenue $ 777 Costs and expenses 703 Income from discontinued operations 74 Other income (expense), net Income from discontinued operations before taxes 74 Provision for income taxes 20 Net income from discontinued operations $ 54 Indemnifications In connection with the divestitures of our semiconductor products and semiconductor test businesses in 2006, we have provided indemnities to Verigy and Avago against certain damages which they might incur related to the businesses of Agilent not transferred to them and other defined categories of liability. These indemnity obligations are in addition to preexisting indemnities to Hewlett Packard in connection with our activities prior to our spin off from HP; indemnities to our officers and directors for certain liabilities which they might incur as a result of their service to Agilent; and other indemnifications which are customary in our industry or provided for in local law in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in connection with our commercial operations. These indemnities are described in greater detail in Note 15, "Guarantees", to our consolidated financial statements. 2009 Segment Reporting Change In the first quarter of 2009, we will form a new operating segment from our existing businesses; the semiconductor and board test segment. The new segment will cover semiconductor equipment and services sold to semiconductor manufacturing and printed circuit board assembly customers. The semiconductor and board test segment will combine laser interferometer, parametric test and printed circuit board manufacturing test equipment. Laser interferometer was formerly part of the bio analytical measurement segment and both the parametric test and printed circuit test were 52 formerly part of the electronic measurement segment. The semiconductor board test segment will be determined based primarily on how the chief operating decision maker views and evaluates our operations. Operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance. Other factors, including technology and delivery channels, consumer specific solutions, highly cyclical market and specialized manufacturing, will be considered in determining the formation of this new operating segment. In the first quarter of 2009, we will also move microscopy measurement from the bio analytical measurement segment to the electronic measurement segment. Microscopy measurement will combine with existing units in the electronic measurement segment for increased synergy with product lines and operational resources. All historical segment numbers will be recast to conform to this new reporting structure in our financial statements, beginning with our Form 10 Q filing for the first quarter of 2009. The following table reflects the restatement of selected financial information of our operating segments for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 on the new basis: Bio analytical Measurement Electronic Measurement Semiconductor and Board Test Total Segments (in millions) Year ended October 31, 2008: Orders $ 2,275 $ 3,157 $ 318 $ 5,750 Total net revenue $ 2,195 $ 3,239 $ 340 $ 5,774 Income from operations $ 410 $ 460 $ 18 $ 888 Year ended October 31, 2007: Orders $ 1,894 $ 3,114 $ 433 $ 5,441 Total net revenue $ 1,876 $ 3,104 $ 440 $ 5,420 Income from operations $ 307 $ 343 $ 69 $ 719 Year ended October 31, 2006: Orders $ 1,628 $ 2,962 $ 485 $ 5,075 Total net revenue $ 1,555 $ 2,960 $ 458 $ 4,973 Income from operations $ 211 $ 329 $ 85 $ 625 Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside of the U.S. Most of the amounts held outside of the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. but, under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. Agilent has accrued U.S. federal taxes on the earnings of its foreign subsidiaries except when the earnings are considered indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S. Repatriation could result in additional U.S. federal income tax payments in future years. Where local restrictions prevent an efficient intercompany transfer of funds, our intent is that cash balances would remain outside of the U.S. and we would meet U.S. liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. We utilize a variety of financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Our financial position as of October 31, 2008 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $1,405 million as compared to $1,826 million as of October 31, 2007. 53  Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities of Continuing Operations Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $756 million in 2008 compared to $969 million provided in 2007. We paid approximately $210 million in taxes in 2008 as compared to $86 million in the same period in 2007. Higher tax payments in 2008 were primarily due to one time taxes related to transfers of intellectual property between affiliated entities. In 2006, we generated $431 million in net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations. In 2008, accounts receivable used cash of $44 million as compared to cash generation of $22 million in 2007. Days sales outstanding were 47 days in 2008 as compared to 46 days in 2007. Accounts payable used cash of $21 million in 2008 and used cash of $13 million in 2007. Cash used for inventory was $14 million in 2008 compared to cash used of $21 million in 2007. Inventory days on hand increased to 89 days in 2008 compared to 88 days in 2007. We contributed $1 million and $8 million to our U.S. defined benefit plans in 2008 and 2007, respectively. We contributed $43 million and $37 million to our non U.S. defined benefit plans in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our non U.S. defined benefit plans are generally funded ratably throughout the year. Total contributions in 2008 were $44 million or 2 percent less than 2007. Our annual contributions are highly dependent on the relative performance of our assets versus our projected liabilities, among other factors. We expect to contribute approximately $84 million to our U.S. and non U.S. defined benefit plans during 2009. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities of Continuing Operations Net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations in 2008 was $399 million compared to $456 million used in 2007. In 2006, we generated $1,838 million in net cash provided by investing activities of continuing operations. Cash generation in 2006 was high due to the divestiture of our semiconductor products business for $2.5 billion, net of transaction costs and taxes. We also completed the sale of our ownership in Lumileds to Philips for $949 million. Investments in property, plant and equipment of $154 million annually was the same for 2008 and 2007. Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment were $14 million in 2008 as compared to $12 million in 2007. In 2008, we invested $172 million in acquisitions and intangible assets primarily related to our acquisition of Velocity11 compared to $344 million in 2007 which was primarily related to our acquisition of Stratagene. Agilent purchased the remaining minority interest in a joint venture for $14 million in 2008. In 2006, we invested $50 million in acquisitions and purchase of intangible assets. In December 2007, the company reclassified a $255 million investment from cash equivalents to a short term investments. In February 2008, Agilent traded this externally managed short term investment fund for the underlying securities of the investment and now manages those investments internally. In 2008, Agilent liquidated $147 million relating to these investments and realized net losses of $4 million and impairments of $3 million. We also recognized an additional $5 million unrealized mark to market loss in stock holders equity. As of October 31, 2008, Agilent held approximately $96 million of these investments. Of this amount $24 million was classified as short term investments and $72 million was classified as long term investments. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities of Continuing Operations Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations in 2008 was $774 million compared to $980 million used in 2007. In 2006, we used $2,548 million in financing activities of continuing operations. 54 On November 14, 2007 the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program of up to $2 billion of Agilents common stock over the next two years. We repurchased approximately 30 million shares for $1,001 million in 2008, based on settlement date, as compared to approximately 54 million shares for approximately $1.94 billion during the same period in 2007 under a different program. We may borrow funds or enter into other financing transactions in order to complete the remainder of our share repurchases in the next fiscal year. Proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans were $211 million in 2008 compared to $375 million during the same period in 2007. We currently hold $1.5 billion of long term debt which was recently refinanced and the repayment date was extended to January 27, 2011. This debt is in the form of an obligation of Agilent Technologies World Trade, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent ("World Trade) to repurchase 15,000 Class A preferred shares of Agilent Technologies (Cayco) Limited ("Cayco") from Lloyds TSB Bank plc ("Lloyds TSB") for $1.5 billion. Under the agreement with Lloyds TSB, no party will have the right to accelerate the due date or cause a redemption of the preferred shares, unless there is a specific event of default. World Trade will be obligated to make aggregate quarterly payments to Lloyds TSB at a rate per annum, reset quarterly, with reference to LIBOR plus 175 basis points beginning on November 17, 2008. World Trade owns all of the outstanding common shares of Cayco, which is an entity distinct from Agilent and its other subsidiaries, with separate assets and liabilities. On August 11, 2008 a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent, borrowed Indian Rupees equivalent to $14 million from Citibank N.A. at 12.75 percent per annum interest rate for 5 years, maturing on August 9, 2013 to finance a capital project in India. The loan is classified as long term debt in our consolidated balance sheet. As of October 31, 2008, we had approximately $1.4 billion of unrestricted cash and $1.6 billion of restricted cash that could be used to repurchase or redeem the debt mentioned above. However, most of this cash is overseas and would need to be repatriated to the U.S. in order to be used to satisfy the repurchase obligation. Repatriation could result in additional U.S. federal income tax payments in future years. On May 11, 2007, we entered into a five year credit agreement, which provides for a $300 million unsecured credit facility that will expire on May 11, 2012. As of October 31, 2008, we had no outstanding balance on the credit facility. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Other We have contractual commitments for non cancelable operating leases. See Note 16 "Commitments and Contingencies", to our consolidated financial statements for further information on our non cancelable operating leases. Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of our business and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economics and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Local government regulations may restrict our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs under certain circumstances. We do not currently expect such regulations and restrictions to impact our ability to pay vendors and conduct operations throughout our global organization. On May 19, 2008, Standard & Poors Rating Services ("S&P") changed their outlook on Agilents BBB corporate credit rating from "stable" to "positive". On July 14, 2008 Moodys Investors Service ("Moodys") changed their outlook on Agilents Ba1 corporate family rating from "stable" to 55 "positive". On August 22, 2008 Fitch Ratings ("Fitch") upgraded Agilents issuer default rating from "BBB " to "BBB" with "stable" outlook. Contractual Commitments Our cash flows from operations are dependent on a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections, inventory management, and the timing of tax and other payments. As a result, the impact of contractual obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with such factors. The following table summarizes our total contractual obligations at October 31, 2008 for continuing operations and excludes amounts recorded in our consolidated balance sheet (in millions): Less than one year One to three years Three to five years More than five years Operating leases $ 77 $ 111 $ 55 $ 44 Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers 481 Other purchase commitments 26 25 15 6 Retirement plans 84 Total $ 668 $ 136 $ 70 $ 50 Operating leases. Commitments under operating leases relate primarily to leasehold property. Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, we issue purchase orders with estimates of our requirements several months ahead of the delivery dates. However, our agreements with these suppliers usually provide us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Typically purchase orders outstanding with delivery dates within 30 days are non cancelable. Therefore, only approximately 44 percent of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, non cancelable, and unconditional commitments. We expect to fulfill all purchase commitments for inventory within one year. In addition to the above mentioned commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers, we record a liability for firm, non cancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with our policy relating to excess inventory. As of October 31, 2008, the liability for our firm, non cancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments was $4 million, compared with $6 million as of October 31, 2007. These amounts are included in other accrued liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. Other purchase commitments. These relate primarily to contracts with professional services suppliers. Purchase commitments are typically cancelable within a 90 day period without significant penalties. We had no material off balance sheet arrangements as of October 31, 2008 or October 31, 2007. 56  On Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table summarizes our total contractual obligations recorded in our consolidated balance sheet pertaining to long term debt (in millions): Less than one year One to three years Three to five years More than five years World Trade debt $ $ 1,500 $ $ Senior notes 611 Other debt 14 Total $ $ 1,500 $ 14 $ 611 We have contractual obligations for interest payments on the above debts. World Trade is obligated to make interest payments, reset quarterly, at LIBOR plus 175 basis points. For senior notes and the Indian Rupee loan the interest rates are 6.5 percent and 12.75 percent, respectively. As a result of adopting FIN No. 48, $488 million of taxes payable are now included in other long term liabilities as of October 31, 2008. We are unable to accurately predict when these amounts will be realized or released.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. We hedge future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the functional currency using sales forecasts up to twelve months in advance. Our exposure to exchange rate risks is managed on an enterprise wide basis. This strategy utilizes derivative financial instruments, including option and forward contracts, to hedge certain foreign currency exposures with the intent of offsetting gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures with gains and losses on the derivative contracts hedging them. We do not currently and do not intend to utilize derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Our operations generate non functional currency cash flows such as revenues, third party vendor payments and inter company payments. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of volatility of the currency market, we enter into such foreign exchange contracts as are described above to manage our currency risk. Approximately 65 percent of our revenues in 2008, 64 percent of our revenues in 2007 and 63 percent of our revenues in 2006 were generated in U.S. dollars. We performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign exchange rates to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. As of October 31, 2008 and October 31, 2007, the analysis indicated that these hypothetical market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 57   
