FILE:LUK/LUK-8K-20031118134557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
================================================================================ SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 -------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 -------- Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): November 6, 2003 ---------------- Leucadia National Corporation --------------------------------------------- (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) New York -------------------------------------- (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
1-5721 13-2615557 -------------------- -------------------------------- (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 315 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
(212) 460-1900 ---------------------------------------------- (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) --------------------------------------------------------------- (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report) ================================================================================
Item 2. Acquisition of Assets. On November 6, 2003, Leucadia National Corporation ("Leucadia") consummated the acquisition of WilTel Communications Group, Inc. ("WilTel"). The acquisition was accomplished through an exchange offer followed by a merger of a wholly-owned subsidiary of Leucadia with and into WilTel, resulting in WilTel becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of Leucadia. The consideration Leucadia offered in the exchange offer and merger was 0.4242 of a Leucadia common share and one Contingent Sale Right ("CSR") for each share of WilTel common stock (approximately 11,156,460 Leucadia common shares in the aggregate, assuming no WilTel stockholders exercise appraisal rights and no Leucadia common shares become issuable pursuant to the CSRs). Additional information concerning the transactions was included in Leucadia's Registration Statement on Form S-4, as amended (File No. 333-108519), that was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the exchange offer and merger (the "Registration Statement"). Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits. (a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired. Unaudited consolidated financial statements for WilTel as of, and for the nine-month period ended, September 30, 2003, are included herein as Exhibit 99.1. WilTel's consolidated financial statements for its three most recently completed fiscal years have been previously reported in the Registration Statement and are incorporated herein by this reference to WilTel's Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002. (b) Pro Forma Financial Information. Unaudited pro forma financial information with respect to Leucadia's acquisition of WilTel is included herein as Exhibit 99.2. (c) Exhibits. 23.1 Consent of independent auditors from Ernst & Young LLP, independent accountants of WilTel. 99.1 Unaudited consolidated financial statements for WilTel as of, and for the nine-month period ended, September 30, 2003. 99.2 Unaudited pro forma financial information. 2
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. LEUCADIA NATIONAL CORPORATION By: /s/ Joseph A. Orlando ---------------------------------------------- Name: Joseph A. Orlando Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Date: November 18, 2003 3
EXHIBIT INDEX 23.1 Consent of independent auditors from Ernst & Young LLP, independent accountants of WilTel. 99.1 Unaudited consolidated financial statements for WilTel as of, and for the nine-month period ended, September 30, 2003. 99.2 Unaudited pro forma financial information.

Consent of Independent Auditors We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 2-84303), Form S-8 and S-3 (No. 33-6054), Form S-8 and S-3 (No. 33-26434), Form S-8 and S-3 (No. 33-30277), Form S-8 (No. 33-61682), Form S-8 (No. 33-61718), Form S-8 (No. 333-51494) and Form S-4 (No. 333-86018) of Leucadia National Corporation of our report dated March 14, 2003, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedules of WilTel Communications Group, Inc. included in its Annual Report (Form 10-K/A) for the year ended December 31, 2002, incorporated by reference in the Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 18, 2003 of Leucadia National Corporation, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. /s/ Ernst & Young LLP Tulsa, Oklahoma November 14, 2003

INDEX
WilTel Communications Group, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) See accompanying notes. 2
WilTel Communications Group, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) See accompanying notes. 3
WilTel Communications Group, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) See accompanying notes. 4
WilTel Communications Group, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Basis of Presentation On April 22, 2002, Williams Communications Group, Inc. ("WCG") and CG Austria, Inc. (collectively, the "Debtors") commenced proceedings under chapter 11 of title 11 of the United States Code (the "Bankruptcy Code"). Pursuant to the terms of a plan of reorganization (the "Plan"), WilTel Communications Group, Inc. ("WilTel" and, together with its direct and indirect subsidiaries, the "Company") emerged on October 15, 2002 as the successor to WCG. The Company implemented fresh start accounting under the provisions of Statement of Position ("SOP") 90-7, "Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code," effective October 31, 2002 to coincide with its normal monthly financial closing cycle. The financial results in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and condensed consolidated cash flows have been separately presented under the label "Successor Company" for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2003 and "Predecessor Company" for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2002 as required by SOP 90-7. All periods in the condensed consolidated balance sheets have been presented under the label "Successor Company" as required by SOP 90-7. The Successor Company is also referred to as "WilTel" and the Predecessor Company is also referred to as "WCG". As a result of implementing fresh start accounting, the Successor Company financial statements are not comparable to the Predecessor Company financial statements. The Successor Company and Predecessor Company interim financial statements presented herein are based on the results of operations and financial position of WilTel and its direct and indirect subsidiaries and WCG and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, respectively. The interim condensed consolidated financial statements do not include all notes in annual financial statements and therefore should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in WilTel's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2002. The financial statements have not been audited by independent auditors but include all normal recurring adjustments and others, which, in the opinion of the Company's management, are necessary to present fairly the Company's financial position as of September 30, 2003 and its results of operations and cash flows for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002. 2. Segment Revenues and Profit (Loss) The Company evaluates performance based upon segment profit (loss) from operations, which represents earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization and other unusual, non-recurring or non-cash items, such as asset impairments and restructuring charges, equity earnings or losses and minority interest. A reconciliation of segment profit (loss) from operations to loss from operations is provided below. Intercompany sales are generally accounted for as if the sales were to unaffiliated third parties. The following tables present certain financial information concerning the Company's reportable segments. 5
WilTel Communications Group, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) Successor Company: Predecessor Company: 6
WilTel Communications Group, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) Successor Company: Predecessor Company: 7
WilTel Communications Group, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 3. Depreciation and Amortization In conjunction with fresh start accounting, the Company reassessed and changed its useful lives for its property, plant and equipment from a weighted average life of 21 years to 15 years. The impact of this change on the Company's depreciation and amortization expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2003 was an increase of approximately $18 million and $55 million, respectively. 4. Severance Charges Severance charges of $12.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2002 were recorded in restructuring charges on the income statement as the charges were related to the Company's reorganization. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had an accrued liability of approximately $12 million for severance related expenses, essentially all of which the Company has paid as of September 30, 2003. During 2003, the Company recorded $4.7 million of additional severance charges to general and administrative expense, essentially all of which has been paid. 5. Other Operating Income, Net - Predecessor Company Transactions included in segment profit (loss) The Company recorded other operating expense, net of $0.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2002 and other operating income, net of $18.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2002, which included cash settlement gains of $17.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2002 related to the termination of various agreements. Transactions excluded from segment profit (loss) Other operating income, net of $3.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2002 represents a credit resulting from the determination that remaining liabilities accrued for exit costs established in previous years related to various business sales and abandonments were no longer required. Other operating expense, net of $25.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2002 included a $35.0 million accrual for contingent liabilities partially offset by a $3.6 million credit discussed above, a non-cash settlement gain of $3.5 million and income of $2.9 million related to revisions of estimated costs associated with the fourth quarter 2001 sale of lit fiber to WorldCom, Inc. 6. Gain on Sale of Consolidated Subsidiary - Successor Company At the time the Company implemented fresh start accounting, the net assets of PowerTel Limited ("PowerTel"), a consolidated subsidiary, were assumed to have minimal value based on assessments by management and its financial advisor assisting with the potential sale of the Company's ownership interest in PowerTel. Important elements of that assessment included PowerTel's struggles to maintain compliance with its bank covenants, and the assessment that improvements in market conditions or improved operations during the periods following fresh start, neither of which could be predicted with certainty, would be required in order to ascribe a higher value. During the first six months of 2003, the Company was unsuccessful in its attempts to sell its ownership interest in PowerTel. However, in August 2003, market conditions improved such that WilTel successfully entered into agreements to sell its ownership interest in PowerTel. WilTel sold its common and preferred stock interest to TVG Consolidation Holdings SPRL for 20 million Australian dollars (or $13.1 million). In addition, WilTel also 8
WilTel Communications Group, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) settled its intercompany receivable from PowerTel for 10 million Australian dollars (or $6.5 million). The proceeds from the sale of the PowerTel stock were placed in a restricted bank account pursuant to the terms of agreements related to the Company's One Technology Center Notes outstanding. Accordingly, the Company has classified the restricted bank account in other noncurrent assets. The sale resulted in a non-recurring gain of $21.1 million. Net loss attributable to PowerTel was $.6 million and $1.6 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2003, respectively. 7. Other Income, Net - Successor Company Other income, net of $33.4 million and $33.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2003, respectively, includes non-recurring, non-operating settlement gains of $20.0 million related to the termination of various agreements. As a result of the termination of the agreements, the Company will no longer be required to perform the contractual obligations that were the basis for the recording of the deferred revenue performance obligations. In addition, other income, net includes $13.4 million of non-recurring, non-operating gains primarily related to the termination of arrangements previously accrued as unfavorable commitments in fresh start accounting and recoveries of various receivables previously written off. 8. Reorganization Items, Net In March 2002, certain provisions of the indenture related to the Trust Notes, which were senior secured notes issued by a WCG subsidiary in March 2001, were amended. The amendment, among other things, provided that The Williams Companies, Inc. ("TWC"), the former parent of WCG and guarantor of the Trust Notes, would make the required March and September 2002 interest payments totaling approximately $115 million on behalf of WCG to WCG Note Trust, and WCG would not be required to reimburse TWC for these interest payments. Since the interest accrued on these notes was not a claim in the chapter 11 proceedings, WCG recognized a gain of $4.1 million and $73.9 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2002, respectively, in accordance with SOP 90-7. The Company wrote off deferred financing costs and debt discounts associated with liabilities subject to compromise and a portion of the deferred financing costs associated with the Company's credit facility to reorganization items in accordance with SOP 90-7 since the deferred financing costs and debt discount did not have a remaining useful life as a result of the chapter 11 proceedings. The Company recorded charges of $21.2 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2002 primarily related to taxes on the Company's retention bonus agreements. In addition, the Company recorded 9
WilTel Communications Group, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) charges of $12.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2002 pursuant to an employee incentive program that was adopted to retain employees during the Company's restructuring process. Professional fees and other primarily consists of professional fees for legal and financial advisory services in connection with the reorganization. The Company recognized interest income of $1.3 million and $2.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2002, respectively, on accumulated cash that the Company did not disburse as a result of the chapter 11 proceedings. 9. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes includes: The tax provision for the three months ended September 30, 2003 is significantly different than the provision expected from applying the federal statutory rate to pre-tax income primarily due to the Company's net operating loss carryforward position. The tax provision for the nine months ended September 30, 2003 and the three and nine months ended September 30, 2002 is significantly different than the benefit expected from applying the federal statutory rate to pre-tax losses primarily due to a valuation allowance established for the Company's net deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance fully reserves the Company's net deferred tax assets, primarily resulting from net operating loss carryforwards, as the Company believes it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax asset will not be realized. 10. Net Income (Loss) Per Share For WilTel, the basic and diluted income (loss) per share is the same as it does not have any dilutive securities outstanding. For WCG, diluted loss per common share was the same as the basic calculation as the inclusion of any stock options and convertible preferred stock would be antidilutive since WCG reported a net loss for the periods presented. Stock options and convertible preferred stock of 5.9 million shares and 7.8 million shares for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2002 were excluded from the computation of diluted loss per common share. 10
WilTel Communications Group, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 11. Prepaid Assets and Other As of September 30, 2003, prepaid assets and other includes a deposit of approximately $38 million related to the posting of a $44.1 million appeal bond in first quarter 2003 for the Thoroughbred Technology and Telecommunications, Inc. (TTTI) litigation (see Note 14). The deposit is reflected as a use of cash in the operating activities section in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. As discussed further in Note 14, subsequent to September 30, 2003, the Company reached a verbal settlement of its disputes with TTTI, which is expected to result in a payment to TTTI in an amount that approximates the amount of the deposit during the fourth quarter of 2003. Accordingly, for liquidity purposes, the settlement is not expected to have any further impact on cash flows. 12. Debt Debt consists of the following: - -------------- * As of September 30, 2003 Aircraft Capital Lease In May 2003, the Company entered into a sale-leaseback transaction on its two airplanes and recorded a capital lease obligation representing the present value of the future minimum lease payments during the lease term. The airplanes were sold for approximately $21 million in cash and leased back for a period of 10 years. Per the terms of the transaction, approximately $5 million from the cash proceeds was held as cash collateral for the lease. OTC Notes The OTC Notes were reduced in third quarter 2003 by the net cash proceeds of $15.1 million from the Aircraft Capital Lease transaction per the terms of the OTC Notes agreement and by $6.5 million related to the final settlement and payment terms pursuant to an agreement for the purchase of the One Technology Center building. The net cash proceeds of $15.1 million had been initially placed in escrow subject to resolution of the final settlement. 11
WilTel Communications Group, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 13. Comprehensive Income (Loss) Comprehensive loss is as follows: 14. Contingencies Litigation Department of Labor Investigation In April 2003, the Company received written notice from the United States Department of Labor that it is exercising its authority under Section 504 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA") to conduct periodic investigations of employee benefit plans to determine whether such plans conform with the provisions of ERISA and other applicable regulations. The stated scope of the review covers the Williams Communications Investment Plan (a defined contribution plan) for a time period extending from 1998 through the present date. The Company is cooperating fully with the Department of Labor. At this time, neither the length of the review nor likely outcome of the investigation can be determined. The Company believes that all of its actions with respect to employee benefit plans have been in full compliance with ERISA and other applicable regulations. Right of Way Class Action Litigation A number of suits attempting to achieve class action status seek damages and other relief from the Company based on allegations that the Company installed portions of its fiber-optic cable without all necessary landowner consents. These allegations relate to the use of rights of way licensed by railroads, state departments of transportation and others controlling pre-existing right-of-way corridors. The putative members of the class in each suit are those owning the land underlying or adjoining the right-of-way corridors. Similar actions have been filed against all major carriers with fiber-optic networks. It is likely that additional actions will be filed. The Company believes it obtained sufficient rights to install its cable. It also believes that the class action suits are subject to challenge on procedural grounds. The Company and other major carriers are seeking to settle the class action claims referenced above relating to the railroad rights of way through an agreed class action. These companies initially sought approval of a settlement in a case titled Zografos et al. vs. Qwest Communications Corp., et al., filed in the U.S. District Court 12
WilTel Communications Group, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for the District of Oregon on January 31, 2002. On July 12, 2002, the Oregon Court dismissed the action. Thereafter, on September 4, 2002, an existing case titled Smith, et al., vs. Sprint, et al., pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, was amended to join the Company and two other telecommunications companies as defendants. On July 25, 2003, the judge in this case issued an order preliminarily approving a proposed settlement agreement and issued an injunction, which stayed other putative class action railroad rights of way cases against the Company. Two of the intervening plaintiffs filed appeals, which were consolidated. If this settlement withstands potential challenges by plaintiffs' counsel, it will settle the majority of the putative nationwide and statewide class actions related to the railroad right-of-way claims. Based on the Company's estimate of a likely settlement range, the Company has accrued $16.7 million as of September 30, 2003. Platinum Equity Dispute In March 2001, the Company sold its Solutions segment to Platinum Equity LLC ("Platinum Equity") for a sales price that was subject to adjustment based upon a computation of the net working capital of the business as of March 31, 2001. A dispute arose between the companies with respect to the net working capital amount as defined in the agreement. Pursuant to the provisions of the sale agreement, the parties submitted the dispute to binding arbitration before an independent public accounting firm. In September 2002, Platinum Equity filed suit in the District Court of Oklahoma County, State of Oklahoma, against the Company alleging various breaches of representations and warranties related to the sale of the Solutions segment and requested a ruling that no payment was due under a promissory note issued by Platinum Equity at the time of purchase until all disputes were resolved. Many of the claims alleged by Platinum Equity in this suit are the same claims asserted by Platinum Equity in the net working capital dispute. Discovery in this suit is ongoing, with the trial expected to begin sometime in Spring 2004. In May 2003, the arbitrator rendered a determination of the adjustment amount under the net working capital dispute, and an order entry of judgment was entered against Platinum Equity in the amount of approximately $38 million, which represented the amount that Platinum Equity owed under the promissory note, offset by the net working capital adjustment determined by the arbitrator. The Company adjusted the carrying amount of the note receivable to $38 million by offsetting amounts previously accrued for the net working capital dispute. In July 2003, the Company collected approximately $39 million, including interest, from Platinum Equity related to the judgment. The receipt of the $39 million does not resolve all of the issues between Platinum Equity and the Company as neither company has waived any of the claims currently pending in the litigation discussed above. The Company continues to believe that it is adequately reserved or accrued with respect to its receivable and payable positions with Platinum Equity. Thoroughbred Technology and Telecommunications, Inc. vs. Williams Communications, LLC Thoroughbred Technology and Telecommunications, Inc. ("TTTI") filed suit on July 24, 2001, against Williams Communications, LLC ("WCL"), which changed its name to WilTel Communications, LLC in January 2003, in a case titled Thoroughbred Technology and Telecommunications, Inc. vs. Williams Communications, LLC f/k/a Williams Communications, Inc., Civil Action No. 1:01-CV-1949-RLV, pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, Atlanta Division. TTTI alleged claims that included breach of contract with respect to a fiber-optic installation project that TTTI was constructing for itself and other parties, including WCL, with respect to certain conduit segments including a three-conduit segment between Cleveland, Ohio and Boyce, Virginia. TTTI sought specific performance to require that WCL take title to the Cleveland-Boyce segment and pay TTTI in excess of $36 million plus pre-judgment interest for such purchase. WCL alleged various defenses, including significant warranty and breach of contract claims against TTTI. 13
WilTel Communications Group, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) On May 9, 2002, the trial court determined that WCL did not have the right to terminate the contract with respect to the Cleveland-Boyce segment, but deferred ruling on TTTI's remedy until a later time. In a series of rulings on January 27, 2003, the court ordered, among other things, (1) that WCL's claims against TTTI for breach of contract and construction deficiencies for certain of the telecommunications routes constructed by TTTI be heard by an arbitration panel; and (2) that WCL close the purchase of the Cleveland-Boyce segment and pay TTTI the sum of $36.3 million plus pre-judgment interest for such purchase. The court denied WCL's motion for a stay of the proceedings while the construction claims against TTTI are adjudicated through arbitration and further denied the Company's request to stay closing on the Cleveland-Boyce segment pending an appeal of the trial court's decision. WCL sought and obtained a stay of the trial court's order compelling a closing of the Cleveland-Boyce segment from the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit thereby staying WCL's obligation to close the transaction until the appeal is decided. The stay granted by the Court of Appeals was conditioned on the posting of an appropriate supersedeas bond by the Company, which was posted by the Company in March 2003 in the approximate amount of $44.1 million. The Company posted the bond, which was docketed by the trial court on March 13, 2003. WCL is proceeding with its appeal of the trial court's decision while pursuing its arbitration claims of construction defects against TTTI. Oral arguments in the appeal are scheduled for November 2003. On March 21, 2003, WCL filed its demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association. Subsequently, TTTI filed its response and alleged unquantified additional counterclaims against WCL for breach of contract. The parties confirmed dates for the arbitration in December 2003 following a decision by the arbitration panel denying TTTI's request to stay the proceeding until after the appeal is concluded. WCL's arbitrable claims against TTTI aggregate approximately $70 million. TTTI's counterclaims against WCL aggregate approximately $24 million. Subsequent to September 30, 2003, the parties reached a verbal settlement of their disputes, which is expected to result in a payment to TTTI in the amount of $37.5 million. The Company anticipates that definitive agreements will be executed by November 19, 2003 pursuant to which all lawsuits will be dismissed and WilTel will take title to the constructed segments that were the subject of the dispute. StarGuide On October 12, 2001, StarGuide Digital Networks ("StarGuide") sued WCG in the United States District Court for Nevada for infringement of three patents relating to streaming transmission of audio and video content. Subsequently, StarGuide added WCL as a party to the action. StarGuide seeks compensation for past infringement, an injunction against infringing use, and treble damages due to willful infringement. On July 1, 2002, StarGuide initiated a second patent suit against WCL with respect to a patent that is a continuation of the patents at issue in the prior litigation. The two actions have been consolidated. In July 2003, the parties reached a settlement, and this case was dismissed by joint agreement. The settlement did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations, financial position or cash flows. WilTel Shareholder Lawsuits On May 15, 2003, the first of several shareholder class actions was filed against WilTel, the nine members of WilTel's Board of Directors and Leucadia National Corporation ("Leucadia"). Currently, the Company has been served with notice of eight (8) shareholder derivative class actions: four (4) in Clark County, Nevada, one (1) in Washoe County, Nevada, two (2) in New York County, New York and one (1) in Tulsa County, Oklahoma. Each of the lawsuits sets forth substantially the same allegations of breach of fiduciary duty in connection with Leucadia's proposed exchange offer announced on May 15, 2003. Amended complaints were filed in each of the lawsuits based upon Leucadia's withdrawal of its initial offer and Leucadia's subsequent offers. The parties in 14
WilTel Communications Group, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) these litigations have reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation. The proposed settlement is subject to numerous conditions, including the drafting and execution of a formal settlement agreement and final approval of the settlement by the New York courts. Plaintiffs' counsel intend to apply to the New York courts for an award of attorneys' fees and reimbursement of expenses in the amount of $300,000. (For additional information on Leucadia's exchange offer see Note 15.) Summary The Company is a party to various other claims, legal actions, and complaints arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, upon the advice of legal counsel, the ultimate resolution of all claims, legal actions, and complaints, after consideration of amounts accrued of approximately $83 million as of September 30, 2003, the verbal settlement and posting of the appeal bond related to TTTI discussed above, insurance coverage, or other indemnification arrangements, is not expected to have a materially adverse effect upon the Company's future financial position or results of operations, although unfavorable outcomes in the items discussed above could significantly impact the Company's liquidity. 15. Leucadia Exchange Offer In August 2003, WilTel and Leucadia announced a merger agreement that provided for an exchange offer pursuant to which tendering WilTel stockholders will receive .4242 of a Leucadia common share for each share of WilTel common stock to be followed by a back-end merger for the same consideration as offered in the exchange offer. The merger agreement also provides that WilTel stockholders receive contingent sale rights which entitle WilTel stockholders to additional Leucadia common shares if Leucadia sells substantially all of WilTel's assets or outstanding shares of capital stock prior to October 15, 2004, or consummates such a sale at a later date if the sale agreement was entered into prior to August 21, 2004, and in either case the net proceeds exceed the valuation ascribed to WilTel's equity in this transaction. As of November 5, 2003, the WilTel stockholders had tendered 23,547,423 shares of WilTel common stock, representing approximately 89.5% of the WilTel shares not owned by Leucadia, which when added to the WilTel common stock already owned by Leucadia represent approximately 94.5% of the total outstanding WilTel common stock. Leucadia accepted all of the WilTel common stock tendered in exchange for Leucadia common shares, and has acquired the balance of the WilTel stock not tendered in a back-end merger. Holders of common stock acquired pursuant to the back-end merger have appraisal rights under Nevada law, which could result in those stockholders receiving cash consideration from WilTel rather than Leucadia common shares. Leucadia issued 9,988,817 of its common shares for the WilTel common stock tendered in the exchange offer, and if no appraisal rights are appropriately exercised, will issue an aggregate of 11,156,460 Leucadia common shares (including the shares issued pursuant to the offer) for all of the WilTel common stock not previously owned by Leucadia. Leucadia will not know the number of shares of common stock, if any, as to which appraisal rights will be exercised until December 2003. Upon completion of the back-end merger, WilTel ceased to be a public company, and as such will no longer file reports with the SEC. 15

UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements reflect the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of WilTel common stock not owned by Leucadia pursuant to the offer and merger. The execution of the Merger Agreement on August 21, 2003 created a measurement date for accounting purposes enabling Leucadia to determine the value of the Leucadia common shares to be issued. Leucadia averaged the closing prices of its common shares for the five-business day period commencing two days before and ending two days after the Merger Agreement was executed. That average, $37.90 per share, was used to calculate the aggregate value of the shares issued for purposes of the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements that follow, and will also be used to determine the actual cost of the acquisition. 1
Leucadia National Corporation and Subsidiaries Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet September 30, 2003 (In thousands) Percentage of WilTel Acquired 100% 2
Leucadia National Corporation and Subsidiaries Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Operations For the nine months ended September 30, 2003 (In thousands, except per share amounts) 3
Leucadia National Corporation and Subsidiaries Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Operations For the year ended December 31, 2002 (In thousands, except per share amounts) 4
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2003 assumes that all of the shares of WilTel common stock not owned by Leucadia are acquired and reflects the adjustments necessary to record the acquisition as though it had occurred on September 30, 2003. The aggregate purchase price of $424,800,000 for the shares of WilTel common stock not already owned by Leucadia consists of $422,800,000 of Leucadia common shares and estimated cash expenses of $2,000,000, as described in the notes below. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2002 and the unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2003 have been prepared assuming the acquisition of WilTel common stock occurred on January 1, 2002 and reflect the effects of certain adjustments to the historical consolidated financial statements that result from the acquisition of WilTel common stock. WilTel emerged from bankruptcy in October 2002 and adopted the provisions of fresh start accounting on October 31, 2002. WilTel's emergence from bankruptcy resulted in a new reporting entity for accounting purposes and, as such, its financial results for periods before and after its emergence are presented separately. At acquisition, under generally accepted accounting principles, Leucadia is required to allocate the purchase price to specific tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based upon their relative fair values. Leucadia will employ independent appraisals and other techniques to determine these fair values. For purposes of the pro forma balance sheet, Leucadia principally utilized the independent appraisals, market quotes, discounted cash flow techniques and comparable sales information utilized by WilTel to prepare their fresh start balance sheet upon emergence from bankruptcy as of October 31, 2002. Leucadia reviewed this information in light of the passage of time since its preparation and the changes in the telecommunications industry to determine whether the information was still in a range of reasonable estimates of fair values for use in the pro forma balance sheet, and concluded that it was. At acquisition, the determination of the actual relative fair values may result in a different allocation than was assumed for the pro forma financial statements. Any such differences are expected to result in an increase or decrease to property, plant and equipment and deferred income, could also result in a different weighted average life used for depreciation and amortization purposes and, as a result, could either increase or decrease the annual amount of actual depreciation and amortization recorded. Accordingly, except for the effects of the pro forma adjustments to property, plant and equipment, the September 30, 2003 historical WilTel balances were assumed to be reasonable estimates of fair values for purposes of the allocation of the purchase price in the pro forma balance sheet. The 'Pro Forma Adjustments' column combines the accounting effects of Leucadia's actual purchases in 2002 with the pro forma accounting effect of the offer to purchase the remaining shares. The principal accounting differences between the actual 2002 purchases and the pro forma 2003 purchase are the amount of excess purchase price over WilTel's historical book value of assets acquired for each transaction, and the related depreciation and amortization expenses reflected, on a pro forma basis, for each transaction. As of September 30, 2003, the amount of the excess was $13,508,000 for the 2002 purchases and $74,891,000, on a pro forma basis, for the 2003 offer to acquire the remaining shares. Each of these amounts is assumed to be amortized as depreciation and amortization expense over an average life of 15 years. In addition, the 2003 offer to purchase the remaining shares will allow Leucadia to recognize WilTel's deferred tax assets in an amount equal to Leucadia's deferred tax liability. The following notes pertain to the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements: (a) Represents estimated expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition of WilTel common stock in the offer. (b) Represents the preliminary adjustment to fair value of the assets acquired. The excess of the amount paid to acquire WilTel common stock in the offer over the historical carrying amounts of net assets acquired is assumed allocated to property, plant and equipment. 5
(c) Represents the elimination of the carrying amount of Leucadia's 47.4% interest in WilTel prior to the acquisition. (d) Represents the recognition of net deferred tax assets of WilTel in an amount equal to Leucadia's deferred tax liabilities. Additional deferred tax assets have not been recognized as they are not deemed more likely than not to be realizable. (e) Represents the elimination of the historical stockholders' equity of WilTel. (f) Reflects the issuance of 11,156,460 Leucadia common shares, based on a valuation of $37.90 per share, the average of the closing share prices for the five business day period commencing two days before and ending two days after the Merger Agreement was executed. (g) Represents an adjustment to the historical amortization of WilTel's deferred revenue as a result of the adjustment to the carrying amount of deferred revenue to reflect its fair value as of the date of acquisition. (h) The adjustment to reduce telecommunications cost of sales by $6,614,000 results from the recognition of a liability for the fair value of unfavorable contracts as of the date of the acquisition assumed in the pro forma financial statements. Cost of sales has been reduced for actual amounts expensed for these contracts during the ten month period ended October 31, 2002; no other amounts were expensed for these contracts for any other period presented. The adjustment to reduce asset impairments and restructuring charges by $8,572,000 substantially reflects the reversal of severance expense recorded by WilTel, which was recognized by Leucadia as a liability in its allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the acquired liabilities. (i) For both periods presented, represents an increase to depreciation expense ($4,420,000 for 2003 and $6,000,000 for 2002) related to the adjustment to fair value of property, plant and equipment at June 30, 2003, which fair value adjustment is assumed amortized over an average life of 15 years. Property, plant and equipment primarily consists of network equipment (fiber, optronics and capacity IRUs) with depreciable lives of 3-20 years, rights-of-way with depreciable lives of 20 years, buildings and leasehold improvements with depreciable lives of 10-30 years, computer equipment and software with depreciable lives of 2-3 years, general office furniture and fixtures of 5-8 years, and construction in progress. Depreciation expense is computed using the straight-line method. The 2002 period also includes a reduction of $231,853,000 to WilTel's historical depreciation expense, as the historical carrying amount of WilTel's property, plant and equipment as of January 1, 2002 is nearly $3 billion more than the preliminary amount allocated to property, plant and equipment assumed in the pro forma financial statements. Accordingly, depreciation expense was substantially reduced on a pro forma basis since the actual depreciation expense recorded on a much larger asset would not have been recorded on a pro forma basis. (j) Represents the reversal of the gain recognized upon the discharge of WilTel's indebtedness in bankruptcy ($4.3 billion) and the reversal of the net charge recognized upon WilTel's application of fresh start accounting adjustments to the historical carrying amounts of its asset and liabilities ($2.1 billion). (k) Represents the reversal of historical interest expense related to all debt that was converted to equity under WilTel's bankruptcy plan. (l) Represents the reversal of Leucadia's historical federal income tax provision as losses generated by WilTel exceed Leucadia's historical income. Leucadia did not record in its historical financial statements a deferred tax benefit for its share of WilTel's losses, as its ability to utilize these unrealized capital losses to reduce taxes due on capital gains in the future was uncertain. Therefore, no amount of adjustment (l) relates to Leucadia's share of WilTel's losses. The 'Pro Forma As Adjusted' amounts for the line item 'income tax (benefit) provision' for all periods includes amounts for state income and franchise taxes 6
and, for the 2002 period, a reversal of Leucadia tax reserves as a result of the resolution of certain federal income tax contingencies unrelated to the WilTel acquisition. (m) Represents the reversal of Leucadia's recognition of its share of WilTel's losses under the equity method of accounting as a result of the pro forma consolidation. (n) For basic and diluted earnings (loss) per common share, represents the number of shares issued in connection with the acquisition of WilTel common stock pursuant to the offer. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2002, the pro forma adjustment for diluted earnings (loss) per common share includes a reduction of approximately 349,000 shares issuable pursuant to outstanding Leucadia options, that are included in the historical calculation but not in the pro forma calculation as the result is antidilutive. (o) For the nine months ended September 30, 2003, WilTel's other income includes non-operating and non-recurring gains of $54,400,000. Such gains are attributable to a gain on the sale of a subsidiary ($21,100,000) and gains resulting from the termination of various agreements that released WilTel from previously accrued obligations. 7


