FILE:LUK/LUK-8K-20050503171207.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): May 2, 2005 LEUCADIA NATIONAL CORPORATION (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) NEW YORK (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) 1-5721 13-2615557 (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 315 PARK AVENUE SOUTH NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10010 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) 212-460-1900 (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: |X| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |X| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) NY2:\1530920\07\wt9k07!.DOC\76830.0273
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement. On May 3, 2005, Leucadia National Corporation (the "Company") and its 72.1% owned subsidiary, MK Resources Company ("MK Resources"), announced that they had entered into a Share Purchase Agreement, dated May 2, 2005 (the "Share Purchase Agreement"), with Inmet Mining Corporation ("Inmet") to sell to Inmet 70% of MK Resources' Las Cruces copper mining project in southern Spain (the "Las Cruces Project"). Under the Share Purchase Agreement, Inmet will issue 5,600,000 Inmet common shares to MK Resources in exchange for the 70% interest in the Las Cruces Project (the "Inmet Transaction"), and enter into a registration rights agreement with respect to such Inmet common shares (the "Registration Rights Agreement"). Under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company and MK Resources will agree not to transfer the Inmet common shares issued in the Inmet Transaction (other than to their affiliates) until the earlier of the fourth anniversary of the consummation of the Inmet Transaction and such time as the completion tests to be specified under the project financing described below have been achieved. After the consummation of the Merger described below and the Inmet Transaction, the Company will retain a 30% indirect interest in the Las Cruces Project. Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, the Company and Inmet have committed to provide financing to the Las Cruces Project currently estimated to be approximately $159,000,000, of which the Company's share will be approximately $50,000,000 ($32,300,000 of which has already been loaned). The Company has also agreed to provide certain guarantees for 30% of the third party project financing to be obtained for the Las Cruces Project until such time as the completion tests to be specified under the project financing have been achieved. To facilitate the Inmet Transaction, the Company, Marigold Acquisition Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and MK Resources have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 2, 2005 (the "Merger Agreement"), pursuant to which the Company will acquire the remaining 27.9% of the outstanding shares of MK Resources common stock that the Company does not already own (the "Merger"). Under the terms of the Merger, MK Resources stockholders will receive 0.0317 of a Company common share for each share of MK Resources common stock they own. In the transaction, the Company would issue to MK Resources stockholders an aggregate of approximately 333,500 Company common shares. The Merger and the Inmet Transaction were approved by the independent directors of MK Resources, who were advised by Raymond James Ltd. Upon the recommendation of the independent directors, the Merger and the Inmet Transaction were unanimously approved by the Board of Directors of MK Resources. Consummation of the Inmet Transaction is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including the completion of the Merger, receipt of required consents, if any, and receipt of a third party project financing commitment of not less than $255 million and a 66 million Euro bridge facility. 2
Consummation of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including approval of the transaction by MK Resources' stockholders, effectiveness of a registration statement with respect to the Company common shares to be issued in the Merger, and satisfaction of the closing conditions to the Share Purchase Agreement. The Company has agreed with Inmet to vote all of the MK Resources shares it owns in favor of the Merger pursuant to a Voting Agreement, dated as of May 2, 2005 (the "Voting Agreement"). The Company's vote will be sufficient to approve the Merger. The Voting Agreement will terminate in the event the Share Purchase Agreement is terminated. The Share Purchase Agreement includes a commitment by the Company and MK Resources not to solicit an alternative transaction to the Inmet Transaction. Should MK Resources receive an unsolicited alternative transaction proposal, its Board of Directors may consider that alternative transaction and, if such alternative transaction proposal is determined to be superior to the Merger, MK Resources may terminate the Inmet Transaction. If the Inmet Transaction is not completed in these circumstances, then Inmet shall receive a compensation fee equal to the greater of $3 million or 75% of the excess value that the Company will receive on closing of the alternative transaction proposal, provided that such closing occurs within 12 months of the termination of the Inmet Transaction. The Share Purchase Agreement, Merger Agreement and Voting Agreement will be filed as exhibits to an amended Schedule 13D to be filed by the Company. Item 9.01(c). Exhibits. Exhibit No. Description 99.1 Press Release of Leucadia National Corporation and MK Resources Company, dated May 3, 2005. 3
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Date: May 3, 2005 LEUCADIA NATIONAL CORPORATION /s/ Joseph A. Orlando ------------------------------------ Name: Joseph A. Orlando Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 4

EXHIBIT 99.1 Filed by Leucadia National Corporation Pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act of 1933 and Deemed Filed Pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Subject Company: MK Resources Company Commission File No. 0-23042 May 3, 2005 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Laura Ulbrandt (212) 460-1900 LEUCADIA NATIONAL CORPORATION AND MK RESOURCES COMPANY ANNOUNCE INMET MINING CORPORATION TO ACQUIRE 70% INTEREST IN LAS CRUCES PROJECT; LEUCADIA AND MK RESOURCES ALSO ANNOUNCE MERGER AGREEMENT Leucadia National Corporation (LUK - NYSE and PCX) and its 72.1% owned subsidiary, MK Resources Company (MKRR - OTCBB) announced today that they have agreed to sell to Inmet Mining Corporation (IMN - TSX) 70% of MK Resources' Las Cruces copper mining project in southern Spain. MK Resources will receive 5,600,000 newly issued Inmet common shares, representing approximately 11.8% of the Inmet common shares then to be outstanding, in exchange for the sale of the 70% interest in the Las Cruces project. In connection with this transaction, Leucadia and Inmet have also agreed to make additional substantial investments in the Las Cruces project and to provide certain guarantees of project financing that will be sought for the project, in each case in proportion to their interests in the Las Cruces project. Leucadia and MK Resources also have announced that, to facilitate the Inmet transaction, they have entered into a merger agreement which will result in MK Resources becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Leucadia. In the merger, which will occur immediately prior to the Inmet transaction, MK Resources stockholders will receive 0.0317 of a Leucadia common share for each share of MK Resources common stock. This exchange ratio represents a 19.2% premium to the original merger consideration offered by Leucadia on April 26, 2005. The Inmet transaction and the merger were approved by the independent directors of MK Resources, who were advised by Raymond James Ltd. Upon the recommendation of the independent directors, the Inmet transaction and the merger were unanimously approved by the Board of Directors of MK Resources. NY2:\1530658\04\WT2@04!.DOC\76830.0273
Consummation of the Inmet transaction is subject to a project financing condition with respect to Las Cruces, completion of the merger, receipt of required consents, if any, as well as other customary conditions. Consummation of the merger transaction is subject to satisfaction (or waiver) of all conditions to the Inmet purchase, certain regulatory requirements, including shareholder approval and effectiveness of a registration statement for the Leucadia common shares to be issued in the merger, as well as other customary conditions. * * * * * This press release may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined by federal law. Although Leucadia and MK Resources believe any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. Any such statements are made in reliance on the "safe harbor" protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Leucadia and MK Resources assume no obligation to update those statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions and other factors. The forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Additional information that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") made by Leucadia and MK Resources. Leucadia National Corporation is a holding company engaged in a variety of businesses, including telecommunications, healthcare services, manufacturing (through its Plastics Division), banking and lending, real estate activities, winery operations, development of a copper mine (through its 72.1% interest in MK Resources) and property and casualty reinsurance. MK Resources Company is a company that explores for, develops and mines mineral properties. Its principal asset is the Las Cruces project, a high-grade copper deposit that is currently undergoing the final stages of pre-production permitting, surface land acquisition, financing and initial project development located in the Pyrite belt of southern Spain. Inmet Mining Corporation is a Canadian-based mining company that produces copper, zinc and gold, with four operations worldwide: Cayeli (Turkey), Pyhasalmy (Finland), Troilus (Quebec, Canada) and Ok Tedi (Papua New Guinea). Leucadia will file promptly after the date of this press release an amended Schedule 13D with the SEC, which stockholders can obtain free of charge from the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Any offer will only be made through a prospectus, which is part of a registration statement to be filed with the SEC. MK Resources stockholders are urged to carefully read the registration statement, the proxy statement/prospectus included therein and other documents relating to the merger, when they become available, because 2
these documents will contain important information relating to the offer. You may obtain a free copy of these documents after they have been filed with the SEC, and other documents filed by Leucadia with the SEC, at the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. Once a registration statement and proxy statement/prospectus included therein, as well as any documents incorporated by reference therein have been filed with the SEC, you will also be able to inspect and copy these documents at the public reference room maintained by the SEC at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY READ THE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE BEFORE MAKING A DECISION CONCERNING THE MERGER. Leucadia, MK Resources and their respective directors and executive officers and other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from stockholders of MK Resources in respect of the proposed merger. Information regarding Leucadia's directors and executive officers is available in Leucadia's proxy statement for its 2005 annual meeting of stockholders, dated April 22, 2005, and information regarding MK Resources' directors and executive officers is available in MK Resources' Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, dated April 28, 2005. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants will be included in the registration and proxy statement/prospectus and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC when they become available. 3


