FILE:LUK/LUK-8K-20080409141319.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
As more fully described in the Form 8-K (the "Form 8-K") of Leucadia National Corporation (the "Company"), dated February 13, 2008, as amended, the Company has acquired a number of common shares of AmeriCredit Corp. ("ACF"), that enables the Company to apply the equity method of accounting. ACF, a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange (Symbol: ACF), is an independent auto finance company in the business of purchasing and servicing automobile sales finance contracts, predominantly to consumers who are typically unable to obtain financing from other sources. As of April 8, 2008, the Company owned an aggregate of 29,336,440 shares of ACF common stock (representing approximately 25.6% of the ACF common stock currently outstanding), for a total cash investment of $373,914,000. This Form 8-K/A amends the Form 8-K by including the financial statements and exhibits set forth under Item 9.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unaudited pro forma financial information with respect to the Company's acquisition of ACF is included herein as Exhibit 99.3.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 9, 2008
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-51494, and 333-143770 on Form S-8, and 333-145668 on Form S-3 of our reports dated August 28, 2007, relating to the consolidated financial statements of AmeriCredit Corp. and subsidiaries, and management's report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A of Leucadia National Corporation.
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Dallas, Texas
April 8, 2008

Exhibit 23.2
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 333-51494), Form S-8 (No. 333-143770) and Form S-3 (No. 333-145668) of Leucadia National Corporation of our report dated September 8, 2006 relating to the financial statements of AmeriCredit Corp., which appears in the Current Report on Form 8-K of Leucadia National Corporation dated April 9, 2008.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Dallas, Texas
April 8, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
ITEM 8.    
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
History and Operations
We were formed on August 1, 1986, and, since September 1992, have been in the business of purchasing and servicing automobile sales finance contracts. During fiscal 2007, we began originating operating leases on automobiles.
Basis of Presentation
The consolidated financial statements include our accounts and the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, including certain special purpose financing trusts utilized in securitization transactions ("Trusts") which are considered variable interest entities. All intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain prior years amounts, including deferred and current income tax provisions, have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions which affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the amount of revenue and costs and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates and those differences may be material. These estimates include, among other things, the determination of the allowance for loan losses on finance receivables, stock based compensation and income taxes.
Cash Equivalents
Investments in highly liquid securities with original maturities of 90 days or less are included in cash and cash equivalents.
Finance Receivables
Finance receivables are carried at amortized cost.
Allowance for Loan Losses
Provisions for loan losses are charged to operations in amounts sufficient to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level considered adequate to cover probable credit losses inherent in our finance receivables.
The allowance for loan losses is established systematically based on the determination of the amount of probable credit losses inherent in the finance receivables as of the reporting date. We review charge-off experience factors, delinquency reports, historical collection rates, estimates of the value of the underlying collateral, economic trends, such as unemployment rates, and other information in order to make the necessary judgments as to probable credit losses. We also use historical charge-off experience to determine a loss confirmation period, which is defined as the time between when an event, such as delinquency status, giving rise to a probable credit loss occurs with respect to a specific account and when such account is charged off. This loss confirmation period is applied to the forecasted probable credit losses to determine the amount of losses inherent in finance receivables at the reporting date. Assumptions regarding probable credit losses and loss confirmation periods are reviewed periodically and may be impacted by actual performance of finance receivables and changes in any of the factors discussed above.
 
Charge-off Policy
Our policy is to charge off an account in the month in which the account becomes 120 days contractually delinquent if we have not repossessed the related vehicle. We charge off accounts in repossession when the automobile is repossessed and legally available for disposition. A charge-off generally represents the difference between the estimated net sales proceeds and the amount of the delinquent contract, including accrued interest. Accounts in repossession that have been charged off have been removed from finance receivables and the related repossessed automobiles, aggregating $39.4 million and $27.4 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets pending sale.
Credit Enhancement Assets
We periodically transfer receivables to Trusts, and the Trusts, in turn, issue asset-backed securities to investors in securitization transactions.
Prior to October 1, 2002, we structured our securitization transactions to meet the accounting criteria for sales of finance receivables. We retained an interest in the receivables in the form of a residual or interest-only receivables from Trusts and also retained other subordinated interests in the receivables transferred to the Trusts. The interests retained are classified as either interest-only receivables from Trusts, investments in Trust receivables or restricted cashgain on sale Trusts depending upon the form of interest retained. These interests are collectively referred to as credit enhancement assets.
Since finance receivables held by the Trusts can be contractually prepaid or otherwise settled in such a way that we would not recover all of our recorded investment in the retained interests, credit enhancement assets are classified as available for sale and are measured at fair value. At each reporting date, the fair value of credit enhancement assets is estimated by calculating the present value of the expected cash distributions to us using discount rates commensurate with the risks involved. Interest-only receivables from Trusts represent the present value of estimated future excess cash flows resulting from the difference between the finance charge income received from the obligors on the receivables and the interest paid to the investors in the asset-backed securities, net of credit losses, servicing fees and other expenses. Investments in Trust receivables represent the present value of the excess of finance receivables held in the Trusts over outstanding debt balance of the Trusts. Restricted cashgain on sale Trusts represents the present value of cash held in restricted accounts used to provide credit enhancement for specific Trusts.
Unrealized gains or unrealized losses are reported net of income tax effects as accumulated other comprehensive income that is a separate component of shareholders' equity until realized. If a decline in fair value is deemed other-than-temporary, the assets are written down through an impairment charge to operations. The discount used to estimate the present value of the credit enhancement assets is accreted into income using the interest method over the expected life of the securitization and is recorded as part of servicing income.
Subsequent to September 30, 2002, we structured our securitization transactions to no longer meet the accounting criteria for sales of finance receivables and, accordingly, such securitization transactions have been accounted for as secured financings. Therefore, following a securitization, the finance receivables and the related securitization notes payable remain on the consolidated balance sheets. We recognize finance charge and fee income on the receivables and interest expense on the securities issued in the securitization transaction, and record a provision for loan losses to recognize probable loan losses inherent in the finance receivables. Credit enhancements for securitizations accounted for as secured financings are not characterized as interest-only receivables from Trusts, investments in Trust receivables and restricted cashgain on sale Trusts on our consolidated balance sheets. Cash pledged to support the securitization transaction is deposited to a restricted account and recorded on our consolidated balance sheets as restricted cashsecuritization notes payable. Additionally, investments in Trust receivables, or overcollateralization, is calculated as the difference between finance receivables securitized and securitization notes payable. Under the secured financing securitization
 
structure, interest-only receivables from Trusts are not reflected as an asset upon transfer of finance receivables but instead will be recognized in the income statement when earned in future periods.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is generally provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which ranges from three to 25 years. The cost of assets sold or retired and the related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts at the time of disposition and any resulting gain or loss is included in operations. Maintenance, repairs and minor replacements are charged to operations as incurred; major replacements and betterments are capitalized.
Leased Vehicles
Leased vehicles consist of automobiles leased to consumers. These assets are reported at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation expense is recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Leased vehicles are depreciated to the estimated residual value at the end of the lease term. Depreciation expense is included in operating expenses on our consolidated statements of income. Residual values of operating leases are evaluated individually for impairment under Statement No. 144, ("SFAS 144"). Under SFAS 144, when aggregate future cash flows from the operating lease, including the expected realizable fair value of the leased asset at the end of the lease, are less than the book value of the lease, an immediate impairment write-down is recognized if the difference is deemed not recoverable. Otherwise, reductions in the expected residual value result in additional depreciation of the leased asset over the remaining term of the lease. Upon disposition, a gain or loss is recorded for any difference between the net book value of the lease and the proceeds from the disposition of the asset, including any insurance proceeds.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Under the purchase method of accounting, the net assets of entities acquired by us are recorded at their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The excess cost of the acquisition over the fair value of net assets is recorded as goodwill. Other identifiable intangible assets are amortized either on an accelerated or straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Goodwill and other intangible assets are evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Derivative Financial Instruments
We recognize all of our derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of each derivative financial instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as an accounting hedge, as well as the type of hedging relationship identified.
Interest Rate Swap Agreements
We utilize interest rate swap agreements to convert floating rate exposures on securities issued by securitization Trusts accounted for as secured financings and our medium term note facility to fixed rates, thereby hedging the variability in interest expense paid. Portions of these interest rate swap agreements are designated as cash flow hedges and are highly effective in hedging our exposure to interest rate risk from both an accounting and economic perspective.
For interest rate swap agreements designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the interest rate swap agreement and the underlying asset, liability or cash flows being hedged, as well as our risk
 
management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge transactions. At hedge inception and at least quarterly, we also formally assess whether the interest rate swap agreements that are used in hedging transactions have been highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows or fair value of the hedged items and whether those interest rate swap agreements may be expected to remain highly effective in future periods. In addition, we also assess the continued probability that the hedged cash flows will be realized.
We use regression analysis to assess hedge effectiveness of our cash flow hedges on a prospective and retrospective basis. A derivative financial instrument is deemed to be effective if the X-coefficient from the regression analysis is between a range of 0.80 and 1.25. At June 30, 2007, all of our interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges fall within this range and are deemed to be effective hedges for accounting purposes. We use the hypothetical derivative method to measure the amount of ineffectiveness of our cash flow hedges to be recorded in earnings.
The effective portion of the changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps qualifying as cash flow hedges are deferred and included in shareholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income as an unrealized gain or loss on cash flow hedges. These unrealized gains or losses are recognized as adjustments to income over the same period in which cash flows from the related hedged item affect earnings. However, if we expect the continued reporting of a loss in accumulated other comprehensive income would lead to recognizing a net loss on the combination of the interest rate swap agreements and the hedged item, the loss is reclassified to earnings for the amount that is not expected to be recovered. Additionally, to the extent that any of these contracts are not considered to be perfectly effective in offsetting the change in the value of the cash flows being hedged, any changes in fair value relating to the ineffective portion of these contracts are recognized in interest expense on our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. We discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when it is determined that an interest rate swap agreement has ceased to be effective as an accounting hedge or if the underlying hedged cash flow is no longer probable of occurring.
Interest Rate Cap Agreements
Our special purpose finance subsidiaries are contractually required to purchase interest rate cap agreements as credit enhancement in connection with securitization transactions and credit facilities. As part of our interest rate risk management strategy and when economically feasible, we may simultaneously sell a corresponding interest rate cap agreement in order to offset the premium paid to purchase the interest rate cap agreement and thus retain the interest rate risk. The fair value of our interest rate cap agreements purchased by our special purpose finance subsidiaries are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. The fair value of our interest rate cap agreements sold by us is included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. Because the interest rate cap agreements entered into by us or our special purpose finance subsidiaries do not qualify for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value of interest rate cap agreements purchased by the special purpose finance subsidiaries and interest rate cap agreements sold by us are recorded in interest expense on our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.
We do not hold any interest rate cap or swap agreements for trading purposes.
Interest rate risk management contracts are generally expressed in notional principal or contract amounts that are much larger than the amounts potentially at risk for nonpayment by counterparties. Therefore, in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties, our credit exposure is limited to the uncollected interest and the market value related to the contracts that have become favorable to us. We manage the credit risk of such contracts by using highly rated counterparties, establishing risk limits and monitoring the credit ratings of the counterparties.
We maintain a policy of requiring that all derivative contracts be governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives Association Master Agreement. When we are engaged in more than one outstanding derivative transaction with the same counterparty and also have a legally enforceable master netting agreement with that
 
counterparty, the net mark-to-market exposure represents the netting of the positive and negative exposures with that counterparty. When there is a net negative exposure, we regard our credit exposure to the counterparty as being zero. The net mark-to-market position with a particular counterparty represents a reasonable measure of credit risk when there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement (i.e. a legal right of a setoff of receivable and payable derivative contracts) between us and the counterparty.
Income Taxes
Deferred income taxes are provided in accordance with the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes to recognize the tax effects of tax credits and temporary differences between financial statement and income tax accounting. A valuation allowance is recognized if it is more likely than not that some portion or the entire deferred tax asset will not be realized.
Revenue Recognition
Finance Charge Income
Finance charge income related to finance receivables is recognized using the interest method. Accrual of finance charge income is suspended on accounts that are more than 60 days delinquent. Fees and commissions received and direct costs of originating loans are deferred and amortized over the term of the related finance receivables using the interest method and are removed from the consolidated balance sheets when the related finance receivables are sold, charged off or paid in full.
Servicing Income
Servicing income consists of servicing fees earned from servicing domestic finance receivables sold to gain on sale Trusts, other-than-temporary impairment on our credit enhancement assets and accretion of present value discounts and unrealized gains related to credit enhancement assets. Servicing fees are recognized when earned. Other-than-temporary impairment is recognized when the fair value of the credit enhancement assets is less than the reference amount. The present value discounts, representing the risk-adjusted time value of money of estimated cash flows expected to be received from the credit enhancement assets, are accreted into earnings using the interest method over the expected life of the securitization. Additionally, the unrealized gains on credit enhancement assets reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income are also accreted into earnings over the life of the credit enhancement assets using the effective interest method. We reduce accretion of the present value discount in a period when such accretion would cause an other-than-temporary impairment in a securitization Trust. Accretion is reduced on the securitization Trust and an other-than-temporary impairment is recorded in an amount equal to the amount by which the reference amount exceeds the revised value of the related credit enhancement assets. Future period accretion is subsequently recognized based upon the revised value and recorded over the remaining expected life of the securitization Trust.
Operating Leasesdeferred origination fees or costs
Deferred revenue is amortized on a straight-line basis over the lease term and is included in other income on our consolidated statements of income. Net deferred origination fees or costs are amortized over the life of the lease to other income.
Stock Based Compensation
Effective July 1, 2005, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment, revised 2004" ("SFAS 123R"), prospectively for all awards granted, modified or settled after June 30, 2005. We adopted the standard by using the modified prospective method that is one of the adoption methods provided for under SFAS 123R. SFAS 123R, which revised FASB Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-
 
Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"), requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment transactions be measured at fair value and recognized in the financial statements. Additionally, on July 1, 2005, we adopted Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ("SAB 107"), which the Securities and Exchange Commission issued in March 2005 to provide its view on the valuation of share-based payment arrangements for public companies. For the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006, and 2005, we have recorded total stock based compensation expense of $20.2 million ($13.7 million net of tax), $16.6 million ($10.5 million net of tax) and $11.5 million ($7.2 million net of tax), respectively. Included in total stock based compensation expense for the years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, is an additional $0.1 million and $4.5 million, respectively, as a result of adoption of SFAS 123R and SAB 107 for amortization of outstanding options that vest subsequent to June 30, 2005, and were granted prior to our implementation of SFAS 123 on July 1, 2003. There is no remaining amortization on these outstanding options at June 30, 2007. The consolidated statement of income and comprehensive income for the year ended June 30, 2005, has not been restated to reflect the amortization of these options.
The tax benefit of the stock option expense of $19.8 million and $13.5 million for the years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, which was calculated using the short-cut method, has been included in other net changes as a cash inflow from financing activities on the consolidated statements of cash flows.
The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share had compensation expense for all options granted under our plans been determined using the fair value-based method and amortized over the expected life of the options (in thousands, except per share data):
 
The fair value of each option granted or modified was estimated using an option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:
 
We have not paid out dividends historically, thus the dividend yields are estimated at zero percent.
Expected volatility reflects an average of the implied and historical volatility rates. Management believes that a combination of market-based measures is currently the best available indicator of expected volatility.
 
The risk-free interest rate is the implied yield available for zero-coupon U.S. government issues with a remaining term equal to the expected life of the options.
The expected lives of options are determined based on our historical option exercise experience and the term of the option.
Assumptions are reviewed each time there is a new grant or modification of a previous grant and may be impacted by actual fluctuation in our stock price, movements in market interest rates and option terms. The use of different assumptions produces a different fair value for the options granted or modified and impacts the amount of compensation expense recognized on the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.
Current Accounting Pronouncements
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 155
In February 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 155, "Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments" ("SFAS 155"). SFAS 155 amends SFAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", and SFAS 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities". SFAS 155 (i) permits the fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation, (ii) clarifies which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirement of SFAS 133, (iii) establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation, (iv) clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives and (v) amends SFAS 140 to eliminate the prohibition on a qualifying special purpose entity from holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a beneficial interest other than another derivative financial instrument. SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2008. Management has evaluated the impact of the adoption of this statement and it is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 156
In March 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 156, "Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assetsan amendment of FASB Statement No. 140" ("SFAS 156"). SFAS 156 requires an entity to recognize a servicing asset or servicing liability each time it undertakes an obligation to service a financial asset by entering into a servicing contract in specific situations. Additionally, the servicing asset or servicing liability shall be initially measured at fair value, if practicable. SFAS 156 permits an entity to choose either the amortization method or fair value measurement method for subsequent measurement of the servicing asset or servicing liability. SFAS 156 is effective for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2008. Management has evaluated the impact of the adoption of this statement and it is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
FASB Interpretation No. 48
In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxesan interpretation of FASB Statement 109." FIN 48 prescribes a comprehensive model for recognizing, measuring, presenting and disclosing in the financial statements tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return, including a decision whether to file or not to file in a particular jurisdiction. FIN 48 is effective for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2008. We are currently evaluating the potential impact FIN 48 will have on our financial position and results of operations.
 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS 157"), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value under GAAP and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 requires companies to disclose the fair value of its financial instruments according to a fair value hierarchy. Additionally, companies are required to provide certain disclosures regarding instruments within the hierarchy, including a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for each major category of assets and liabilities. SFAS 157 applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2009. Management is evaluating the impact of the statement but it is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities" ("SFAS 159"), which provides the option to report certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value, with the intent to mitigate volatility in financial reporting that can occur when related assets and liabilities are recorded on different bases. SFAS 159 also amends SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," by providing the option to record unrealized gains and losses on securities currently classified as held-for-sale and held-to-maturity. SFAS 159 is effective for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2009. Management is evaluating the impact of the statement but it is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
2.    Acquisitions
On January 1, 2007, we acquired the stock of Long Beach Acceptance Corporation ("LBAC") to expand our market niche. The total consideration in the all-cash transaction, including transaction costs, was approximately $287.7 million. The fair value of the net assets acquired was approximately $90.9 million, which resulted in goodwill of approximately $196.8 million, all of which is deductible for federal income tax purposes. LBAC serves auto dealers in 34 states offering auto finance products primarily to consumers with near-prime credit bureau scores.
The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition:
 
Subsequent to the acquisition, we adjusted our preliminary allocation of the LBAC purchase price by $3.5 million. We expect to continue to refine and finalize our purchase accounting estimates and assumptions during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008. As a result of this, our preliminary purchase price allocation is subject to change.
The results of operations of LBAC subsequent to the acquisition are included in our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. The following unaudited proforma financial information presents a
 
summary of consolidated results of operations of our company as if the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the periods presented (dollars in thousands except for per share data):
 
These unaudited proforma results have been prepared for comparative purposes only. These results may not be indicative of the results of operations that actually would have resulted had this acquisition occurred at the beginning of the periods presented.
On May 1, 2006, we acquired the stock of Bay View Acceptance Corporation ("BVAC"). The total consideration in the all-cash transaction was approximately $64.6 million. The fair value of the net assets acquired was $50.2 million which resulted in goodwill of $14.4 million, which is not deductible for federal income tax purposes. BVAC serves auto dealers in 32 states offering specialized auto finance products, including extended term financing and higher loan-to-value advances to consumers with prime credit bureau scores. Subsequent to the acquisition, we adjusted our preliminary allocation of the BVAC purchase price by $6.3 million.
3.    Finance Receivables
Finance receivables consist of the following (in thousands):
 
Finance receivables securitized represent receivables transferred to our special purpose finance subsidiaries in securitization transactions accounted for as secured financings. Finance receivables unsecuritized include $2,797.4 million and $2,227.3 million pledged under our credit facilities as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Finance receivables are collateralized by vehicle titles and we have the right to repossess the vehicle in the event the consumer defaults on the payment terms of the contract.
The accrual of finance charge income has been suspended on $632.9 million and $574.8 million of delinquent finance receivables as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Finance contracts are generally purchased by us from auto dealers without recourse, and accordingly, the dealer usually has no liability to us if the consumer defaults on the contract. Depending upon the contract structure and consumer credit attributes, we may pay dealers a participation fee or we may charge dealers a non-refundable acquisition fee when purchasing individual finance contracts. We record the amortization of participation fees to finance charge income using the effective interest rate method. We record the accretion of acquisition fees on loans purchased subsequent to June 30, 2004, to finance charge income using the effective interest method. We recorded acquisition fees on loans purchased prior to July 1, 2004, as nonaccretable fees available to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio. Additionally, we record a discount on finance receivables
 
repurchased upon the exercise of a clean-up call option from our gain on sale securitization transactions and account for such discounts as nonaccretable discounts.
A summary of nonaccretable acquisition fees is as follows (in thousands):
 
A summary of the allowance for loan losses is as follows (in thousands):
 
4.    Securitizations
A summary of our securitization activity and cash flows from special purpose entities used for securitizations is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
We retain servicing responsibilities for receivables transferred to the Trusts. We earn a monthly base servicing fee on the outstanding principal balance of our domestic securitized receivables and supplemental fees (such as late charges) for servicing the receivables. We believe that servicing fees received on our domestic securitization pools represent adequate compensation based on the amount currently demanded by the marketplace. Additionally, these fees are the same as would fairly compensate a substitute servicer should one be required and, thus, we record neither a servicing asset nor a servicing liability.
As of June 30, 2007 and 2006, we were servicing $12,899.7 million and $9,795.1 million, respectively, of finance receivables that have been sold or transferred to securitization Trusts.
5.    Credit Enhancement Assets
Credit enhancement assets represent the present value of our retained interests in securitizations accounted for as sales. Our interest in credit enhancement assets are subordinate to the interests of the investors in and
 
insurers of the Trusts, and the value of such assets is subject to the credit risks related to the receivables transferred to the Trusts. Credit enhancement assets would be utilized to cover monthly principal and interest payments to the investors and administrative fees in the event that cash generated from the securitization Trusts was not sufficient to cover these payments.
Credit enhancement assets consist of the following (in thousands):
 
 
A summary of activity in the credit enhancement assets is as follows (in thousands):
 
At the time of securitization of finance receivables, we are required to pledge assets equal to a specified percentage of the securitization pool to support the securitization transaction. Typically, the assets pledged consist of cash deposited to a restricted account and additional receivables delivered to the Trust, which create overcollateralization. The securitization transactions require the percentage of assets pledged to support the transaction to increase until a specified level is attained. Excess cash flows generated by the Trusts are added to the restricted cash account or used to pay down outstanding debt in the Trusts, creating overcollateralization until the targeted percentage level of assets has been reached. Once the targeted percentage level of assets is reached and maintained, excess cash flows generated by the Trusts are released to us as distributions from Trusts. Additionally, as the balance of the securitization pool declines, the amount of pledged assets needed to maintain the required percentage level is reduced. Assets in excess of the required percentage are also released to us as distributions from Trusts.
With respect to our securitization transactions covered by a financial guaranty insurance policy, agreements with the insurers provide that if portfolio performance ratios (delinquency, cumulative default or cumulative net loss triggers) in a Trust's pool of receivables exceed certain targets, the specified credit enhancement levels would be increased.
Agreements with our financial guaranty insurance providers contain additional specified targeted portfolio performance ratios that are higher than the limits referred to in the preceding paragraphs. If, at any measurement date, the targeted portfolio performance ratios with respect to any insured Trust were to exceed these additional levels, provisions of the agreements permit our financial guaranty insurance providers to terminate our servicing rights to the receivables sold to that Trust.
 
Significant assumptions used in measuring the estimated fair value of credit enhancement assets related to the gain on sale Trusts at the balance sheet dates are as follows:
 
 
We have not presented the expected weighted average life and prepayment assumptions used in measuring the fair value of credit enhancement assets due to the stability of these two attributes over time. The majority of our prepayment experience relates to defaults that are considered in the cumulative credit loss assumption. Our voluntary prepayment experience on our gain on sale receivables portfolio typically has not fluctuated significantly with changes in market interest rates or other economic or market factors. The weighted average life of the pools of loans are driven more by the default assumption than the voluntary prepayment rate assumption and therefore the weighted average life is not meaningful.
Expected cumulative static pool credit losses on receivables that have been sold to the Trusts are shown below:
 
 
6.    Equity Investment
We held an equity investment in DealerTrack Holdings, Inc. ("DealerTrack"), a leading provider of on-demand software and data solutions that utilizes the Internet to link automotive dealers with banks, finance companies, credit unions and other financing sources. On December 16, 2005, DealerTrack completed an initial public offering ("IPO") of its common stock. At the time of the IPO we owned 3,402,768 shares of DealerTrack with an average cost of $4.15 per share. As part of the IPO, we sold 758,526 shares for net proceeds of $15.81 per share resulting in an $8.8 million gain. We owned 2,644,242 shares of DealerTrack with a market value of $22.11 per share at June 30, 2006. This equity investment was classified as available for sale, and changes in its market value were reflected in other comprehensive income. At June 30, 2006, the investment was included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets and was valued at $58.5 million. Included in accumulated other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheets was $47.5 million in unrealized gains related to our investment in DealerTrack at June 30, 2006. During the year ended June 30, 2007, we sold our remaining investment in DealerTrack for net proceeds of $23.81 per share, resulting in a $52.0 million gain.
 
7.    Credit Facilities
Amounts outstanding under our credit facilities are as follows (in thousands):
 
Further detail regarding terms and availability of the credit facilities as of June 30, 2007, follows (in thousands):
 
 
Generally, our credit facilities are administered by agents on behalf of institutionally managed commercial paper or medium term note conduits. Under these funding agreements, we transfer finance receivables to our special purpose finance subsidiaries. These subsidiaries, in turn, issue notes to the agents, collateralized by such finance receivables and cash. The agents provide funding under the notes to the subsidiaries pursuant to an advance formula, and the subsidiaries forward the funds to us in consideration for the transfer of finance
 
receivables. While these subsidiaries are included in our consolidated financial statements, these subsidiaries are separate legal entities and the finance receivables and other assets held by these subsidiaries are legally owned by these subsidiaries and are not available to our creditors or our other subsidiaries. Advances under the funding agreements bear interest at commercial paper, LIBOR or prime rates plus specified fees depending upon the source of funds provided by the agents.
The Long Beach credit facility is a revolving agreement with a bank under which we may borrow up to $600.0 million subject to a defined borrowing base.
We are required to hold certain funds in restricted cash accounts to provide additional collateral for borrowings under certain of the facilities. Additionally, certain funding agreements contain various covenants requiring minimum financial ratios, asset quality and portfolio performance ratios (portfolio net loss and delinquency ratios, and pool level cumulative net loss ratios) as well as limits on deferment levels. Failure to meet any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. If an event of default occurs under these agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under these agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under these agreements or restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings under these agreements. As of June 30, 2007, we were in compliance with all covenants in our credit facilities.
Debt issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the expected term of the credit facilities. Unamortized costs of $6.5 million and $5.8 million as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
8.    Securitization Notes Payable
Securitization notes payable represents debt issued by us in securitization transactions accounted for as secured financings. Debt issuance costs are being amortized over the expected term of the securitizations on an effective yield basis. Unamortized costs of $23.6 million and $21.4 million as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
 
Securitization notes payable consists of the following (dollars in thousands):
 
 
At the time of securitization of finance receivables, we are required to pledge assets equal to a specified percentage of the securitization pool to support the securitization transaction. Typically, the assets pledged consist of cash deposited to a restricted account and additional receivables delivered to the Trust, which create overcollateralization. The securitization transactions require the percentage of assets pledged to support the
 
transaction to increase until a specified level is attained. Excess cash flows generated by the Trusts are added to the restricted cash account or used to pay down outstanding debt in the Trusts, creating overcollateralization until the targeted percentage level of assets has been reached. Once the targeted percentage level of assets is reached and maintained, excess cash flows generated by the Trusts are released to us as distributions from Trusts. Additionally, as the balance of the securitization pool declines, the amount of pledged assets needed to maintain the required percentage level is reduced. Assets in excess of the required percentage are also released to us as distributions from Trusts.
With respect to our securitization transactions covered by a financial guaranty insurance policy, agreements with the insurers provide that if portfolio performance ratios (delinquency, cumulative default or cumulative net loss) in a Trust's pool of receivables exceed certain targets, the specified credit enhancement levels would be increased.
Agreements with our financial guaranty insurance providers contain additional specified targeted portfolio performance ratios that are higher than those described in the preceding paragraph. If, at any measurement date, the targeted portfolio performance ratios with respect to any insured Trust were to exceed these higher levels, provisions of the agreements permit our financial guaranty insurance providers to terminate our servicing rights to the receivables sold to that Trust.
9.    Senior Notes
In June 2007, we issued $200.0 million of senior notes, in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, that are due in June 2015. Interest on the senior notes is payable semiannually at a rate of 8.5%. The notes will be redeemable, at our option, in whole or in part, at any time on or after July 1, 2011, at specific redemption prices. In connection with the issuance of the notes, we entered into a registration rights agreement that requires us to file a shelf registration statement relating to the resale of the notes and the subsidiary guarantees. If the registration statement has not become effective within 180 days from the original issuance of the notes or ceases to remain effective, we will be required to pay the noteholders during the time that the registration statement is not effective a maximum amount of $0.50 per week per $1,000 principal amount of the notes.
Debt issuance costs related to the senior notes are being amortized to interest expense over the expected term of the notes; unamortized costs of $3.5 million are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2007.
On May 10, 2006, we redeemed all of our outstanding 9.25% senior notes due May 2009 for a redemption price of 104.625% plus accrued interest through the redemption date. The principal amount of the outstanding notes was $154.6 million. Upon the payment of the redemption price plus accrued interest, we recognized a $9.2 million extinguishment loss, which is included in other income on the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the year ended June 30, 2006.
10.    Convertible Senior Notes
In September 2006, we issued $550.0 million of convertible senior notes at par in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, of which $275.0 million are due in 2011 bearing interest at a rate of 0.75% per annum and $275.0 million are due in 2013 bearing interest at a rate of 2.125% per annum. Interest on the notes is payable semiannually. Subject to certain conditions, the notes, which are uncollateralized, may be converted prior to maturity into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $28.07 per share and $30.51 per share for the notes due in 2011 and 2013, respectively. Upon conversion, the conversion value will be paid in: 1) cash equal to the principal amount of the notes and 2) to the extent the conversion value exceeds the principal amount of the notes, shares of our common stock. The notes are
 
convertible only in the following circumstances: 1) if the closing sale price of our common stock exceeds 130% of the conversion price during specified periods set forth in the indentures under which the notes were issued, 2) if the average trading price per $1,000 principal amount of the notes is less than or equal to 98% of the average conversion value of the notes during specified periods set forth in the indentures under which the notes were issued or 3) upon the occurrence of specific corporate transactions set forth in the indentures under which the notes were issued. In connection with the issuance of the notes, we filed a shelf registration statement relating to the resale of the notes, the subsidiary guarantees and the shares of common stock into which the notes are convertible. If the registration statement ceases to remain effective, we will be required to pay additional interest to the noteholders during the time that the registration statement is not effective at a rate of 0.5% per annum through September 2008.
In connection with the issuance of these convertible senior notes, we used net proceeds of $246.8 million to purchase 10,109,500 shares of our common stock.
In conjunction with the issuance of the convertible senior notes, we purchased call options that entitle us to purchase shares of our common stock in an amount equal to the number of shares issued upon conversion of the notes at $28.07 per share and $30.51 per share for the notes due in 2011 and 2013, respectively. These call options are expected to allow us to offset the dilution of our shares if the conversion feature of the convertible senior notes is exercised.
We also sold warrants to purchase 9,796,408 shares of our common stock at $35 per share and 9,012,713 shares of our common stock at $40 per share for the notes due in 2011 and 2013, respectively. In no event are we required to deliver a number of shares in connection with the exercise of these warrants in excess of twice the aggregate number of shares initially issuable upon the exercise of the warrants.
We have analyzed the conversion feature, call option and warrant transactions under Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 00-19, "Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to and Potentially Settled In a Company's Own Stock," and determined they meet the criteria for classification as equity transactions. As a result, both the cost of the call options and the proceeds of the warrants are reflected in additional paid-in capital on our consolidated balance sheets, and we will not recognize subsequent changes in their fair value.
In November 2003, we issued $200.0 million of contingently convertible senior notes that are due in November 2023. Interest on the notes is payable semiannually at a rate of 1.75% per annum. The notes, which are uncollateralized, are convertible prior to maturity into shares of our common stock at $18.68 per share. Additionally, we may exercise our option to repurchase the notes, or holders of the convertible senior notes may require us to repurchase the notes, on November 15, 2008, at a price equal to 100.25% of the principal amount of the notes redeemed, or after November 15, 2008 at par.
In conjunction with the issuance of the convertible senior notes, we purchased a call option that entitles us to purchase shares of our common stock in an amount equal to the number of shares convertible at $18.68 per share. This call option allows us to offset the dilution of our shares if the conversion feature of the convertible senior notes is exercised. We also issued warrants to purchase 10,705,205 shares of our common stock. Each warrant entitles the holder, at our option, and subject to certain provisions within the warrant agreement, to purchase shares of common stock from us at $28.20 per share, at any time prior to its expiration on October 15, 2008. The warrants may be settled in net shares or net cash, at our discretion if certain criteria are met. Both the cost of the call option and the proceeds of the warrants are reflected in additional paid in capital on our consolidated balance sheets.
Debt issuance costs relating to convertible senior notes are being amortized to interest expense over the expected term of five to seven years of the notes; unamortized costs of $12.9 million and $2.5 million are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
11.    Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities
As of June 30, 2007 and 2006, we had interest rate swap agreements associated with our securitization Trusts, our medium term note facility and a portion of our BVAC portfolio with underlying notional amounts of $2,355.1 million and $1,293.8 million, respectively. The fair value of our interest rate swap agreements of $14.9 million and $18.7 million as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, is included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Interest rate swap agreements designated as hedges had unrealized gains included in accumulated other comprehensive income of approximately $14.2 million and $15.2 million as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The ineffectiveness related to the interest rate swap agreements designated as hedges was not material for the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. We estimate approximately $8.5 million of unrealized gains included in other comprehensive income related to interest rate swap agreements will be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months.
As of June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2006, we had interest rate cap agreements with underlying notional amounts of $4,323.7 million and $3,733.3 million, respectively. The fair value of the interest rate cap agreements purchased by our special purpose finance subsidiaries of $13.4 million and $15.4 million as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. The fair value of the interest rate cap agreements sold by us of $13.4 million and $14.8 million as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.
Under the terms of our derivative financial instruments, we are required to pledge certain funds to be held in restricted cash accounts as collateral for the outstanding derivative transactions. As of June 30, 2007 and 2006, these restricted cash accounts totaled $10.2 million and $13.2 million, respectively, and are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
12.    Commitments and Contingencies
Leases
Our branch offices are generally leased for terms of up to five years with certain rights to extend for additional periods. We also lease space for our administrative offices and loan servicing activities under leases with terms up to twelve years with renewal options. Certain leases contain lease escalation clauses for real estate taxes and other operating expenses and renewal option clauses calling for increased rents. Lease expense was $16.6 million, $17.5 million and $14.9 million for the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Operating lease commitments for years ending June 30 are as follows (in thousands):
 
During the year ended June 30, 2006, we sold and leased back a building we owned and utilized for servicing activities. The operating lease has a twelve-year term expiring in 2017 with renewal options. The lessor is an unrelated third party. The gain on the sale is being amortized into income in proportion to the related gross rental charged to expense over the lease term.
Concentrations of Credit Risk
Financial instruments which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk are primarily cash equivalents, restricted cash, derivative financial instruments and managed finance receivables, which include
 
finance receivables held on our consolidated balance sheets and gain on sale receivables serviced by us on behalf of the Trusts. Our cash equivalents and restricted cash represent investments in highly rated securities placed through various major financial institutions. The counterparties to our derivative financial instruments are various major financial institutions. Managed finance receivables represent contracts with consumers residing throughout the United States and, to a limited extent, in Canada, with borrowers located in California, Texas and Florida each accounting for 14%, 12% and 10%, respectively, of the managed finance receivables portfolio as of June 30, 2007. No other state accounted for more than 10% of managed finance receivables.
Guarantees of Indebtedness
The payments of principal and interest on our senior notes and convertible senior notes are guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries. As of June 30, 2007 and 2006, the carrying value of the senior notes and convertible senior notes were $950.0 million and $200.0 million, respectively. See guarantor consolidating financial statements in Note 23.
Legal Proceedings
As a consumer finance company, we are subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties, based upon, among other things, usury, disclosure inaccuracies, wrongful repossession, violations of bankruptcy stay provisions, certificate of title disputes, fraud, breach of contract and discriminatory treatment of credit applicants. Some litigation against us could take the form of class action complaints by consumers and/or shareholders. As the assignee of finance contracts originated by dealers, we may also be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against dealers. The damages and penalties claimed by consumers in these types of matters can be substantial. The relief requested by the plaintiffs varies but can include requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. We believe that we have taken prudent steps to address and mitigate the litigation risks associated with our business activities.
13.    Common Stock and Warrants
The following summarizes share repurchase activity:
 
Subsequent to June 30, 2007, we repurchased an additional 4,232,050 shares of our common stock at an average cost of $23.61 per share. As of August 15, 2007, we had repurchased $1,346.8 million of our common stock since April 2004 and we had remaining authorization to repurchase $200 million of our common stock. A covenant in our senior note indenture entered into in June 2007 limits our ability to repurchase stock. As of August 15, 2007, we have approximately $30 million available for share repurchases under the indenture limits.
In January 2007, 53.6 million treasury shares were cancelled and were restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares. Our outstanding common stock was not impacted by this action.
In September 2002, we issued five-year warrants to purchase 1,287,691 shares of our common stock at $9.00 per share. In April 2005, 36,695 warrants were exercised, which resulted in a net settlement of 24,431 shares of our common stock. In July 2006, we repurchased 17,687 shares of these warrants for approximately $334,000.
 
14.    Stock Based Compensation
General
We have certain stock based compensation plans for employees, non-employee directors and key executive officers.
A total of 28,200,000 shares have been authorized for grants of options and other stock based awards under the employee plans, of which 2,000,000 shares are available for grants to non-employee directors as well as employees. As of June 30, 2007, 3,185,095 shares remain available for future grants. The exercise price of each equity grant must equal the market price of our stock on the date of grant, and the maximum term of each equity grant is ten years. The vesting period is typically three to four years, although grants with other vesting periods or grants that vest upon the achievement of specified performance criteria may be authorized under certain employee plans. A committee of our Board of Directors establishes policies and procedures for equity grants, vesting periods and the term of each grant.
A total of 1,500,000 shares have been authorized for equity grants under the non-employee director plans. These plans have now expired and no shares remain available for future grants. A total of 6,300,000 shares have been authorized for equity grants under the key executive officer plans, all of which have been previously awarded and vested and have been exercised.
Total unamortized stock based compensation was $60.5 million at June 30, 2007, and will be recognized over a period of 1.7 years.
Stock Options
Compensation expense recognized for stock options was $0.9 million, $6.7 million and $6.2 million for the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of June 30, 2007 and 2006, unamortized compensation expense related to stock options was $1.6 million and $2.2 million, respectively.
Employee Plans
A summary of stock option activity under our employee plans is as follows (shares in thousands):
 
Cash received from exercise of options for the years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, was $26.2 million and $23.0 million, respectively. Options exercised are issued as new shares and there are no expected forfeitures of options granted. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, was $30.0 million and $28.8 million, respectively.
 
A summary of options outstanding under our employee plans as of June 30, 2007, is as follows (shares in thousands):
 
Non-Employee Director Plans
A summary of stock option activity under our non-employee director plans is as follows (shares in thousands):
 
Cash received from exercise of options for the years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, was $375,000 and $65,000, respectively. Options exercised are issued as new shares and there are no expected forfeitures of options granted. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, was $665,000 and $157,000, respectively.
A summary of options outstanding under our non-employee director plans as of June 30, 2007, is as follows (shares in thousands):
 
 
Key Executive Officer Plans
A summary of stock option activity under our key executive officer plans is as follows (shares in thousands):
 
Cash received from exercise of options for the year ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, was $26.1 million and $4.4 million, respectively. Options exercised are issued as new shares and there are no expected forfeitures of options granted. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, was $27.8 million and $9.8 million, respectively.
Modifications to extend the option term by two years for 2,840,000 stock options, of which 2,272,000 received shareholder approval, were made during the year ended June 30, 2005. Compensation expense was recognized over the service period on a straight-line basis and totaled $5.4 million for the year ended June 30, 2005.
Restricted Stock Based Grants
Restricted stock grants totaling 2,977,900 shares with an approximate aggregate market value of $78.0 million at the time of grant have been issued under the employee plans. The market value of these restricted shares at the date of grant is being amortized into expense over a period that approximates the service period of three years.
A total of 1,753,400 shares of restricted stock granted to employees vest in annual increments through March 2010.
A total of 1,191,000 shares of restricted stock granted to key executive officers may vest depending on achievement of specific financial results on the date when the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors certifies these results for years ending through June 30, 2010.
A total of 33,500 shares of restricted stock granted to non-employee directors vested 50% at the date of grant and 50% after a six-month service period.
Compensation expense recognized for restricted stock grants was $14.0 million, $4.5 million and $1.7 million for the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of June 30, 2007 and 2006, unamortized compensation expense related to the restricted stock awards was $55.1 million and $34.2 million, respectively. A summary of the status of non-vested restricted stock for the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, is presented below:
 
 
Stock Appreciation Rights
Stock appreciation rights with respect to 680,600 shares with an approximate aggregate market value of $9.7 million at the time of grant have been issued under the employee plans. The market value of these rights at the date of grant is being amortized into expense over a period that approximates the service period of three years. Stock appreciation rights with respect to 640,000 shares are subject to vesting schedules of 25% that vested in June 2005, 25% that vested in March 2007 and 50% that will vest in March 2008. The remaining stock appreciation rights are subject to vesting schedules of 25% that vested in March 2006, 25% that vested in March 2007 and 50% that will vest in March 2008. Compensation expense recognized for stock appreciation rights was $3.4 million, $3.3 million and $1.0 million for the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of June 30, 2007 and 2006, unamortized compensation expense related to the rights was $2.5 million and $5.5 million, respectively. A summary of the status of non-vested stock appreciation rights for the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, is presented below:
 
15.    Employee Benefit Plans
We have a defined contribution retirement plan covering substantially all employees. Our contributions in stock to the plan were $6.3 million, $4.1 million and $3.3 million for the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
We also have an employee stock purchase plan that allows participating employees to purchase, through payroll deductions, shares of our common stock at 85% of the market value at specified dates. A total of 5,000,000 shares have been reserved for issuance under the plan. As of June 30, 2007, 917,455 shares remain available for issuance under the plan. Shares issued under the plan were 287,191, 283, 240, and 549,046 for the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We recognized $1.9 million, $2.1 million and $2.6 million in compensation expense for the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to this plan. As of June 30, 2007 and 2006, unamortized compensation expense related to the employee stock purchase plan was $1.3 million and $0.9 million, respectively.
16.    Income Taxes
The income tax provision consists of the following (in thousands):
 
 
Our effective income tax rate on income before income taxes differs from the U.S. statutory tax rate as follows:
 
As a result of the favorable resolution of prior contingent liabilities, we recorded a net reduction to the tax contingency balance of $23.3 million during the year ended June 30, 2007.
The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to deferred tax liabilities and assets are as follows (in thousands):
 
As of June 30, 2007, we have a net operating loss carryforward of approximately Cdn $26.5 million for Canadian income tax reporting purposes that expires between June 30, 2008 and June 30, 2017, and a net operating loss carryforward of approximately $18.1 million for state income tax reporting purposes which expires in 2009. We expect to generate sufficient income to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards; accordingly, no tax valuation allowance has been recorded on the related deferred tax asset.
No provision for deferred taxes has been made on the approximately $12.5 million of unremitted earnings that are considered to be indefinitely invested in our Canadian subsidiaries. Deferred taxes for these unremitted earnings are not practicable to estimate.
17.    Restructuring Charges
As of June 30, 2007, total costs incurred to date related to our restructuring activities include $22.3 million in personnel-related costs and $69.7 million of contract termination and other associated costs.
 
A summary of the liabilities, which are included in accrued taxes and expenses on the consolidated balance sheets, for restructuring charges for the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, is as follows (in thousands):
 
The adjustments for the year ended June 30, 2007, include a favorable settlement of a lease obligation regarding prior year restructuring activities.
18.    Earnings Per Share
A reconciliation of weighted average shares used to compute basic and diluted earnings per share is as follows (dollars in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
Basic earnings per share have been computed by dividing net income by weighted average shares outstanding.
Diluted earnings per share have been computed by dividing net income, adjusted for interest expense (net of related tax effects) related to our convertible senior notes issued in November 2003, by the diluted weighted average shares. The treasury stock method was used to compute the assumed incremental shares related to our outstanding stock-based compensation and warrants and will be used to compute the shares related to our convertible senior notes issued in September 2006 upon our stock price increasing above the relevant initial conversion price. The average common stock market prices for the periods were used to determine the number of incremental shares. Options to purchase approximately 0.6 million, 0.7 million and 1.0 million shares of common stock at June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the option exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common shares. Warrants to purchase approximately 30.0 million, 10.9 million and 11.2 million shares of common stock for the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common shares.
The if-converted method was used to calculate the impact of our convertible senior notes issued in November 2003 on assumed incremental shares.
19.    Supplemental Cash Flow Information
Cash payments for interest costs and income taxes consist of the following (in thousands):
 
Non-cash investing and financing activities during the year ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, included $3.0 million, $2.2 million and $5.1 million, respectively, of common stock issued for employee benefit plans.
During the year ended June 30, 2006, we entered into capital lease agreements for property and equipment of $1.7 million. We did not enter into any significant capital lease agreements for property and equipment during the years ended June 30, 2007 and 2005.
 
20.    Supplemental Disclosure for Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
A summary of changes in accumulated other comprehensive income is as follows (in thousands):
 
21.    Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107, "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments" ("SFAS 107"), requires disclosure of fair value information about financial instruments, whether recognized or not in our consolidated balance sheets. Fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques in cases where quoted market prices are not available. Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and the estimated timing and amount of future cash flows. Therefore, the estimates of fair value may differ substantially from amounts that ultimately may be realized or paid at settlement or maturity of the financial instruments and those differences may be material. SFAS 107 excludes certain financial instruments and all non-financial instruments from our disclosure requirements. Accordingly, the aggregate fair value amounts presented do not represent the underlying value of our Company.
 
Estimated fair values, carrying values and various methods and assumptions used in valuing our financial instruments are set forth below (in thousands):
 
 
 
22.    Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
The following is a summary of quarterly financial results (dollars in thousands, except per share data):
 
23.    Guarantor Consolidating Financial Statements
The payment of principal and interest on our senior notes and convertible senior notes are guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries (the "Subsidiary Guarantors"). The separate financial statements of the Subsidiary Guarantors are not included herein because the Subsidiary Guarantors are our wholly-owned consolidated subsidiaries and are jointly, severally, fully and unconditionally liable for the obligations represented by the convertible senior notes. We believe that the consolidating financial information for AmeriCredit Corp., the combined Subsidiary Guarantors and the combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries provide information that is more meaningful in understanding the financial position of the Subsidiary Guarantors than separate financial statements of the Subsidiary Guarantors.
The consolidating financial statements present consolidating financial data for (i) AmeriCredit Corp. (on a parent only basis), (ii) the combined Subsidiary Guarantors, (iii) the combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries, (iv) an elimination column for adjustments to arrive at the information for the parent company and our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and (v) the parent company and our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as of June 30, 2007 and 2006 and for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2007.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for by the parent company using the equity method for purposes of this presentation. Results of operations of subsidiaries are therefore reflected in the parent company's investment accounts and earnings. The principal elimination entries set forth below eliminate investments in subsidiaries and intercompany balances and transactions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
AmeriCredit Corp.:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of AmeriCredit Corp. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of AmeriCredit Corp. and subsidiaries at June 30, 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2007, based on the criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 28, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Internal ControlIntegrated Framework
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Dallas, Texas
August 28, 2007
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
AmeriCredit Corp.:
In our opinion, the consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2006 and the related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, of shareholders' equity and of cash flows for each of two years in the period ended June 30, 2006 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of AmeriCredit Corp. and its subsidiaries at June 30, 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended June 30, 2006, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Dallas, Texas
September 8, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.2
Part I. FINANCIA L INFORMATION
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
NOTE 1  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Presentation
The consolidated financial statements include our accounts and the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, including certain special purpose financing trusts utilized in securitization transactions ("Trusts") which are considered variable interest entities. All significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2007, and for the three and six months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, are unaudited, and in management's opinion include all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the results for such interim periods. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year.
The interim period consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, are condensed and do not include all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. These interim period financial statements should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements that are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2007.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Under the purchase method of accounting, the net assets of entities acquired by us are recorded at their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The excess cost of the acquisition over the fair value is recorded as goodwill. Other identifiable intangible assets are amortized either on an accelerated or straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Goodwill and other intangible assets are evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances occur. Due to the changes in the economic environment and the decline in our market value, we tested goodwill for impairment during the three months ended December 31, 2007. We determined that goodwill was not impaired at December 31, 2007.
Income Taxes
In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 ("FIN 48"), "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxesan interpretation of FASB Statement 109." FIN 48 prescribes a comprehensive model for recognizing, measuring, presenting and disclosing in the financial statements tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return, including a decision whether to file or not to file in a particular
 
jurisdiction. The transition adjustment recognized on the date of adoption is recorded as an adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the adoption period. We adopted FIN 48 on July 1, 2007. See Note 9  "Income Taxes" for a discussion of the impact of implementing FIN 48.
Recent Market Developments
We anticipate that a number of factors will adversely impact our liquidity in calendar 2008: higher credit enhancement levels in our securitization transactions driven by bond insurance requirements, and to a lesser extent, the credit deterioration we are experiencing in our portfolio; disruptions in the capital markets and weakened demand for securities guaranteed by insurance policies, making the execution of securitization transactions more challenging and expensive; decreased cash distributions from our securitization Trusts due to weaker credit performance; and the breach of portfolio performance ratios in certain of our securitization Trusts supported by auto receivables originated through our Long Beach Acceptance Corporation ("LBAC") platform resulting in higher credit enhancement requirements for those Trusts and a delay in cash distributions to us while those higher credit enhancement levels are built.
As a result of these developments, we implemented a revised operating plan in January 2008 in an effort to preserve and strengthen our capital and liquidity position, and to maintain sufficient capacity on our warehouse lines to fund new loan originations until capital market conditions improve for securitization transactions. The plan includes a decrease in targeted origination volume to $5.0 billion to $6.0 billion for calendar 2008. Under this plan, we have increased the minimum credit score requirements for new loan originations, decreased our originations infrastructure by reducing sales and underwriting headcounts as well as branch underwriting locations by approximately one third and selectively decreased the number of dealers from whom we purchase loans. We anticipate that we will incur restructuring charges of approximately $10 million over the remainder of fiscal 2008 in connection with this plan.
We believe that we have sufficient liquidity and warehouse capacity to operate under our new plan through calendar 2008. However, if the asset-backed securities market or the credit markets, in general, continue to deteriorate, or if economic factors deteriorate resulting in weaker credit performance, we will have to further reduce our targeted origination volume below the range of $5.0 billion to $6.0 billion to sustain adequate liquidity.
The asset-backed securities market, along with credit markets in general, has been experiencing unprecedented disruptions. Market conditions began deteriorating in mid-2007 and remain impaired in early 2008. While some securitizations backed by prime quality automobile finance receivables were executed by other issuers in January 2008, no securitizations backed by sub-prime quality receivables have been completed in calendar 2008. Further, the prime quality automobile securitizations that were executed in January 2008 utilized senior-subordinated structures, selling only the highest rated securities. Several of the financial guaranty insurers used by us in the past are facing financial stress and rating agency downgrades. As a result, demand for asset-backed securities backed by a financial guarantee insurance policy has weakened and there has been no public issuance of insured automobile asset-backed securities since November 2007. We have not accessed the securitization market with a transaction since October 2007.
 
Current conditions in the asset-backed securities market include reduced liquidity, increased risk premiums for issuers, reduced investor demand for asset-backed securities, particularly those securities backed by sub-prime collateral, financial stress and rating agency downgrades impacting the financial guaranty insurance providers, and a general tightening of availability of credit. These conditions, which may increase our cost of funding and reduce our access to the asset-backed securities market or other types of receivable financings, may continue or worsen in the future. We will continue to require execution of securitization transactions or other types of receivable financing during fiscal 2008. There can be no assurance that funding will be available to us through the execution of these types of transactions or, if available, that the funding will be on acceptable terms. If we are unable to execute these transactions on a regular basis, and are otherwise unable to issue any other debt or equity, we would not have sufficient funds to finance new loan originations and, in such event, we would be required to revise the scale of our business, including possible discontinuation of loan origination activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives. For a more complete description of the financing risks that we face, please review the Risks Factors Part I, Item I in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2007.
Current Accounting Pronouncements
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141R
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141R, "Business Combinations" ("SFAS 141R"), which replaces Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, "Business Combinations." SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for determining how an enterprise recognizes and measures the fair value of certain assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, including noncontrolling interests, contingent consideration and certain acquired contingencies. SFAS 141R also requires acquisition-related transaction expenses and restructuring costs be expensed as incurred rather than capitalized as a component of the business combination. SFAS 141R will be applicable prospectively to business combinations beginning in our 2010 fiscal year.
 
NOTE 2  FINANCE RECEIVABLES
Finance receivables consist of the following (in thousands):
 
Finance receivables securitized represent receivables transferred to our special purpose finance subsidiaries in securitization transactions accounted for as secured financings. Finance receivables unsecuritized include $2,793.1 million and $2,797.4 million pledged under our credit facilities as of December 31 and June 30, 2007, respectively.
Finance receivables are collateralized by vehicle titles and we have the right to repossess the vehicle in the event the consumer defaults on the payment terms of the contract.
The accrual of finance charge income has been suspended on $781.7 million and $632.9 million of delinquent finance receivables as of December 31 and June 30, 2007, respectively.
Finance contracts are generally purchased by us from auto dealers without recourse, and accordingly, the dealer usually has no liability to us if the consumer defaults on the contract. Depending upon the contract structure and consumer credit attributes, we may pay dealers a participation fee or we may charge dealers a non-refundable acquisition fee when purchasing individual finance contracts. We record the amortization of participation fees and the accretion of acquisition fees on loans purchased subsequent to June 30, 2004, to finance charge income using the effective interest method. We recorded acquisition fees on loans purchased prior to July 1, 2004, as nonaccretable fees available to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio. Additionally, we record a discount on finance receivables repurchased upon the exercise of a clean-up call option from our gain on sale securitization transactions and account for such discounts as nonaccretable discounts.
 
A summary of the nonaccretable acquisition fees is as follows (in thousands):
 
A summary of the allowance for loan losses is as follows (in thousands):
 
NOTE 3  SECURITIZATIONS
A summary of our securitization activity and cash flows from special purpose entities used for securitizations is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
As of December 31 and June 30, 2007, we were servicing $13,300.9 million and $12,899.7 million, respectively, of finance receivables that have been transferred or sold to securitization Trusts.
 
NOTE 4  CREDIT FACILITIES
Amounts outstanding under our credit facilities are as follows (in thousands):
 
Further detail regarding terms and availability of the credit facilities as of December 31, 2007, follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
Generally, our credit facilities are administered by agents on behalf of institutionally managed commercial paper or medium term note conduits. Under these funding agreements, we transfer finance receivables to our special purpose finance subsidiaries. These subsidiaries, in turn, issue notes to the agents, collateralized by such finance receivables and cash. The agents provide funding under the notes to the subsidiaries pursuant to an advance formula, and the subsidiaries forward the funds to us in consideration for the transfer of finance receivables. While these subsidiaries are included in our consolidated financial statements, these subsidiaries are separate legal entities and the finance receivables and other assets held by these subsidiaries are legally owned by these subsidiaries and are not available to
 
our creditors or our other subsidiaries. Advances under the funding agreements bear interest at commercial paper, LIBOR or prime rates plus specified fees depending upon the source of funds provided by the agents.
We are required to hold certain funds in restricted cash accounts to provide additional collateral for borrowings under the facilities. Additionally, certain funding agreements contain various covenants requiring minimum financial ratios, asset quality and portfolio performance ratios (portfolio net loss and delinquency ratios, and pool level cumulative net loss ratios) as well as limits on deferment levels. Failure to meet any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. If an event of default occurs under these agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under these agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under these agreements or restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings under these agreements. As of December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with all covenants in our credit facilities.
Debt issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the expected term of the credit facilities. Unamortized costs of $5.8 million and $6.5 million as of December 31 and June 30, 2007, respectively, are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
NOTE 5  SECURITIZATION NOTES PAYABLE
Securitization notes payable represents debt issued by us in securitization transactions accounted for as secured financings. Debt issuance costs are being amortized over the expected term of the securitizations; accordingly, unamortized costs of $24.8 million and $23.6 million as of December 31 and June 30, 2007, respectively, are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
 
Securitization notes payable as of December 31, 2007, consists of the following (dollars in thousands):
 
 
At the time of securitization of finance receivables, we are required to pledge assets equal to a specified percentage of the securitization pool to support the securitization transaction. Typically, the assets pledged consist of cash deposited to a restricted account and additional receivables delivered to the Trust, which create overcollateralization. The securitization transactions require the percentage of assets pledged to support the transaction to increase until a specified level is attained. Excess cash flows generated by the Trusts are added to the restricted cash account or used to pay down outstanding debt in the Trusts, creating overcollateralization until the targeted percentage level of assets has been reached. Once the targeted percentage level of assets is reached and maintained, excess cash flows generated by the Trusts are released to us as distributions from Trusts. Additionally, as the balance of the securitization pool declines, the amount of pledged assets needed to maintain the required percentage level is reduced. Assets in excess of the required percentage are also released to us as distributions from Trusts.
 
Several of the financial guaranty insurers used by us in the past are facing financial stress and rating agency downgrades due to risk exposures on insurance policies that guarantee mortgage debt and related structured products. As a result, demand for securities guaranteed by insurance, particularly securities backed by sub-prime collateral, has generally weakened. One of the insurers we have used, Financial Security Assurance, Inc. ("FSA"), has been able to maintain its capital position and "AAA" rating. We have an offer of capacity from FSA for $4,500.0 million for our sub-prime securitizations throughout calendar year 2008. Under this arrangement, which is not a commitment, prior to issuing an insurance policy, FSA will evaluate each securitization we propose to execute on a transaction by transaction basis as to timing, collateral composition, size, market conditions and other factors. While we believe that FSA will issue insurance policies to guarantee the securities issued in these securitizations to investors and that such policies will be accepted by investors and enhance the execution of our securitization transactions, we can provide no assurance on any of these matters.
Credit enhancement requirements in our sub-prime securitization structures will increase in calendar 2008 driven by bond insurers' requirements, and to a lesser extent, the credit deterioration we are experiencing in our portfolio. Historically, the level of credit enhancement required by the bond insurers in our securitization transactions would support a "shadow rating" to the bond insurer, or attachment point, of "BBB." The insurance policy provided by the bond insurer then allows for the actual rating on the securitization notes to be "AAA." The attachment point also determines the amount of capital the bond insurer is charged. As part of the offer of capacity from FSA, FSA will require us to increase the amount of credit enhancement we provide in a transaction to increase the attachment point to a rating of "A-." With these changes, we expect enhancement levels on our securitization transactions to increase to an initial credit enhancement level in the mid-teens percentage with a target enhancement level in the low 20% range. This increase in enhancement levels will adversely impact our liquidity position.
With respect to our securitization transactions covered by a financial guaranty insurance policy, including transactions covered by FSA policies, agreements with the bond insurers provide that if portfolio performance ratios (delinquency, cumulative default or cumulative net loss) in a Trust's pool of receivables exceed certain targets, the specified credit enhancement levels would be increased.
 
As of December 31, 2007, three LBAC securitizations (LB 2006-A, LB 2006-B and LB 2007-A) insured by FSA had delinquency ratios in excess of the targeted levels. As part of the arrangement with FSA described above, the excess cash flows from our other FSA-insured securitizations are being used to fund higher credit enhancement requirements in the LBAC Trusts which exceeded the portfolio performance ratios. We anticipate that it will take four to six months to build the credit enhancement up to the new requirement and will likely delay $40 to $50 million of cash distributions we had expected to receive during that time frame.
Agreements with all of our financial guaranty insurance providers contain additional specified target portfolio performance ratios that are higher than the levels previously described. If, at any measurement date, the targeted portfolio performance ratios with respect to any insured Trust were to exceed these higher levels, provisions of the agreements permit our financial guaranty insurance providers to terminate our servicing rights to the receivables sold to that Trust.
NOTE 6  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
As of December 31 and June 30, 2007, we had interest rate swap agreements with underlying notional amounts of $3,594.3 million and $2,355.1 million, respectively. The fair value of our interest rate swap agreements of $68.4 million as of December 31, 2007, is included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. The fair value of our interest rate swap agreements of $14.9 million as of June 30, 2007, is included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Interest rate swap agreements designated as hedges had unrealized losses of $67.9 million and unrealized gains of $14.2 million included in accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31 and June 30, 2007, respectively. The ineffectiveness related to the interest rate swap agreements designated as hedges was not material for the three and six month periods ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. We estimate approximately $64.8 million of unrealized losses included in other comprehensive income will be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months.
As of December 31 and June 30, 2007, we had interest rate cap agreements with underlying notional amounts of $4,963.7 million and $4,323.7 million, respectively. The fair value of our interest rate cap agreements purchased by our special purpose finance subsidiaries of $10.4 million and $13.4 million as of December 31 and June 30, 2007, respectively, are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. The fair value of our interest rate cap agreements sold by us of $10.4 million and $13.4 million as of December 31 and June 30, 2007, respectively, are included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.
Under the terms of our derivative financial instruments, we are required to pledge certain funds to be held in restricted cash accounts as collateral for the outstanding derivative transactions. As of December 31 and June 30, 2007, these restricted cash accounts totaled $19.2 million and $10.2 million, respectively, and are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
 
NOTE 7  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Guarantees of Indebtedness
The payments of principal and interest on our senior notes and convertible senior notes are guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries. The carrying value of the senior notes and convertible senior notes was $950.0 million as of December 31 and June 30, 2007. See guarantor consolidating financial statements in Note 13.
Legal Proceedings
As a consumer finance company, we are subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties, based upon, among other things, usury, disclosure inaccuracies, wrongful repossession, violations of bankruptcy stay provisions, certificate of title disputes, fraud, breach of contract and discriminatory treatment of credit applicants. Some litigation against us could take the form of class action complaints by consumers and/or shareholders. As the assignee of finance contracts originated by dealers, we may also be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against dealers. The damages and penalties claimed by consumers in these types of matters can be substantial. The relief requested by the plaintiffs varies but can include requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. We believe that we have taken prudent steps to address and mitigate the litigation risks associated with our business activities. In the opinion of management, the ultimate aggregate liability, if any, arising out of any such pending or threatened litigation will not be material to our consolidated financial position or our results of operations.
NOTE 8  COMMON STOCK AND WARRANTS
The following summarizes share repurchase activity:
 
As of January 31, 2008, we had repurchased $1,374.8 million of our common stock since April 2004 and we had remaining authorization to repurchase $172.0 million of our common stock. A covenant in our senior note indenture entered into in June 2007 limits our ability to repurchase stock. As of January 31, 2008, we have approximately $36 million available for share repurchases under the covenant limits although we have no current plans to continue repurchase activity.
In October 2007, 5.0 million treasury shares were cancelled and were restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares. Our outstanding common stock was not impacted by this action.
 
In September 2002, we issued five-year warrants to purchase 1,287,691 shares of our common stock at $9.00 per share. In April 2005, 39,695 warrants were exercised, which resulted in a net settlement of 24,431 shares of our common stock. In July 2006, we repurchased 17,687 shares of these warrants for approximately $334,000. In September 2007, 1,185,225 warrants were exercised, which resulted in a net settlement of 1,065,047 shares of our common stock for approximately $8.6 million. The remaining outstanding warrants expired unexercised.
NOTE 9  INCOME TAXES
We adopted the provisions of FIN 48 on July 1, 2007. The adoption of FIN 48 resulted in a decrease to retained earnings of $0.5 million, an increase in deferred income taxes of $53.1 million and an increase to accrued taxes and expenses of $53.6 million.
Upon implementation of FIN 48 on July 1, 2007, unrecognized tax benefits were $42.3 million. The amount, if recognized, that would affect the effective tax rate was $17.7 million and includes the federal benefit of state taxes. As of December 31, 2007, the amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits and the amount that would affect the effective income tax rate in future periods is $53.7 million and $20.6 million, respectively. It is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change during the next twelve months. However, we do not expect any changes to have a material impact on our results of operations or our financial position.
We recognize accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the income tax provision. As of July 1, 2007, accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions were $5.6 million and $6.9 million, respectively. For the six months ended December 31, 2007, we had a reduction of $0.1 million in accrued interest associated with uncertain tax positions. For the six months ended December 31, 2007, we had an increase of $0.4 million in accrued penalties associated with uncertain tax positions.
We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. Our U.S. federal income tax returns subsequent to fiscal year 2005 remain subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). The IRS completed its examination of our fiscal years 2004 and 2005 consolidated federal income tax returns in the second quarter of fiscal year 2007. The returns for those years will be subject to an appeals proceeding, which we anticipate will be concluded by the end of calendar year 2008. We expect the outcome of the appeals proceeding will not result in a material change to our financial position or results of operations. Foreign and U.S. state jurisdictions have statutes of limitations that generally range from 3 to 5 years. Our tax returns are currently under examination in various U.S. state and foreign jurisdictions.
 
Our effective income tax rate was 34.3% and 36.7% for the three months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our effective income tax rate was 25.4% and 36.8% for the six months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decrease in the rate for the six months ended December 31, 2007, is primarily a result of revised estimates of our deferred tax assets and liabilities relating to state income tax rates and the exercise of warrants issued in September 2002.
NOTE 10  RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
As of December 31, 2007, total costs incurred to date related to our restructuring activities in prior years include $22.3 million in personnel-related costs and $69.4 million of contract termination and other associated costs.
A summary of the liabilities, which are included in accrued taxes and expenses on the consolidated balance sheets, for restructuring charges for the six months ended December 31, 2007, is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
NOTE 11  EARNINGS PER SHARE
A reconciliation of weighted average shares used to compute basic and diluted earnings per share is as follows (dollars in thousands, except per share data):
 
Basic (loss) earnings per share have been computed by dividing net income (loss) by weighted average shares outstanding.
Diluted loss per share has been computed by dividing net loss by the weighted average shares assuming no incremental shares. Diluted earnings per share have been computed by dividing net income, adjusted for interest expense (net of related tax effects) related to our convertible senior notes issued in November 2003, by the weighted average shares and assumed incremental shares. The treasury stock method was used to compute the assumed incremental shares related to our outstanding stock-based compensation and warrants and will be used to compute the assumed incremental shares related to our convertible senior notes issued in September 2006 once the average market price of the common shares exceeds the conversion price. The average common stock market prices for the periods were used to determine the number of incremental shares. Options to purchase approximately 1.8 million shares of common stock for the six months ended December 31, 2007, and 0.7 million shares of common stock for the three and six months ended December 31, 2006, were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the option exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common shares. Warrants to purchase approximately 30.0 million shares of common stock for the six months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common shares.
 
The if-converted method was used to calculate the impact of our convertible senior notes issued in November 2003 on assumed incremental shares.
NOTE 12  SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION
Cash payments for interest costs and income taxes consist of the following (in thousands):
 
NOTE 13  GUARANTOR CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The payment of principal and interest on our senior notes and convertible senior notes are guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries (the "Subsidiary Guarantors"). The separate financial statements of the Subsidiary Guarantors are not included herein because the Subsidiary Guarantors are our wholly-owned consolidated subsidiaries and are jointly, severally, fully and unconditionally liable for the obligations represented by the convertible senior notes. We believe that the consolidating financial information for AmeriCredit Corp., the combined Subsidiary Guarantors and the combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries provide information that is more meaningful in understanding the financial position of the Subsidiary Guarantors than separate financial statements of the Subsidiary Guarantors.
The consolidating financial statements present consolidating financial data for (i) AmeriCredit Corp. (on a parent only basis), (ii) the combined Subsidiary Guarantors, (iii) the combined Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries, (iv) an elimination column for adjustments to arrive at the information for the parent company and our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and (v) the parent company and our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for by the parent company using the equity method for purposes of this presentation. Results of operations of subsidiaries are therefore reflected in the parent company's investment accounts and earnings. The principal elimination entries set forth below eliminate investments in subsidiaries and intercompany balances and transactions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
Article 11 of Regulation S-X requires the filing of pro forma financial information upon the occurrence of a business combination that is accounted for as a "purchase," and the term "purchase" includes an interest accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The acquisition by Leucadia National Corporation (the "Company") of AmeriCredit Corp. ("ACF") common stock is deemed to be significant because the Company's percentage share (based on its approximate 25.6% equity ownership) of ACF's historical income from continuing operations before income taxes for ACF's most recent fiscal year end is greater than 20% of the Company's historical pre-tax income from continuing operations for the Company's most recent fiscal year end. However, as described below, the Company will not apply the equity method of accounting for its investment in ACF.
In February 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" ("SFAS 159"), which permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are to be reported in the Company's consolidated statement of operations. SFAS 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 (the Company was required to adopt SFAS 159 on January 1, 2008), with earlier adoption permitted subject to certain conditions. The Company did not elect to adopt the provisions of SFAS 159 prior to January 1, 2008.
The Company's investment in ACF is one of the eligible items which can be measured at fair value under SFAS 159. As permitted under SFAS 159, the Company elected to account for its investment in ACF at fair value commencing with the date the Company acquired the right to vote 20% of the ACF common stock, rather than under the equity method of accounting. The pro forma financial information discussed below reflects the Company's election to prospectively measure its investment in ACF at fair value. The Company will not restate its statements of operations for the pro forma period; the pro forma financial information merely shows what the Company's income from continuing operations would have been if it had acquired the ACF common shares on January 1, 2007 at the market price on that date, rather than at the market prices on the actual acquisition dates.
The pro forma adjustment is based on the change in the market price of ACF common stock from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007. As of January 1, 2007, the most recent closing price for ACF common stock was $25.17 per share (at December 29, 2006), and as of December 31, 2007 the closing price was $12.79 per share, representing a historical decline in fair value of $12.38 per share. Assuming the Company acquired the shares of ACF common stock on January 1, 2007 at a price of $25.17 per share (versus the Company's actual average acquisition cost per share of $12.75 per share), and multiplying the decline in historical fair value during 2007 by the number of ACF shares acquired results in a pro forma pre-tax loss adjustment of $363,185,000 ($231,048,000
 
after tax). The pro forma loss would have been reported in the caption "Equity in income (losses) of associated companies, net of taxes." Pro forma income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2007, assuming the ACF shares were acquired on January 1, 2007, would be:
 
The only pro forma adjustments to the Company's December 31, 2007 consolidated balance sheet would be a reduction in non-current available for sale investments of $71,536,000 (representing the fair value of ACF common shares owned at December 31, 2007), a reduction in cash equivalents of $303,819,000 (representing the cost of the ACF shares acquired during 2008) and an increase in investments in associated companies of $375,213,000 (representing the fair value of all the acquired ACF common stock based on the December 31, 2007 market price). The Company would also disclose parenthetically next to the caption "Investment in Associated Companies" the aggregate dollar amount measured using the fair value option.
The Company does not believe that the pro forma adjustment to income from continuing operations realistically reflects what results of operations would have been because it assumes that the Company's acquisition cost for the ACF common shares was nearly twice its actual cost. If the Company had to record the pro forma loss adjustment, the cost of its investment in the ACF common shares would have been written down to $10,729,000 as of December 31, 2007, even though the ACF shares would have had a fair value of $375,213,000 based on the market price on that date.
The unaudited pro forma financial information discussed above should be read in conjunction with the Company's historical consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, and the historical consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of ACF, which are referenced in Item 9.01 hereof and are included in this Report. The unaudited pro forma financial information is presented for informational purposes only and is not indicative of actual results had the acquisition occurred as of January 1, 2007, nor do they purport to represent results of future operations.
 


