FILE:LUK/LUK-8K-20111205175251.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
|_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
|_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
|_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
|_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 5, 2011, Leucadia National Corporation (the ) entered into an agreement to acquire a controlling interest in National Beef Packing Company, LLC () for a net aggregate purchase price of approximately $867.9 million to be paid out of the Companys available cash and investments.  The acquisition will be implemented pursuant to a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement dated as of December 5, 2011, (the ), by and among the Company, National Beef, U.S. Premium Beef, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (), NBPCo Holdings, LLC, a South Dakota limited liability company (), TKK Investments, LLC, a Missouri limited liability company (), TMKCo, LLC, a Missouri limited liability company (, and together with USPB, NBPCo and TKK, the ), and TMK Holdings, LLC, a Missouri limited liability company () (the ). Upon consummation of the Transaction, the Company will own a 78.95% interest in National Beef, and the current owners of National Beef, USPB, NBPCo  and Timothy Klein, the Chief Executive Officer of National Beef, will continue to hold a minority interest in National Beef.
Company
National Beef
Agreement
USPB
NBPCo
TKK
TMK
Sellers
TMK Holdings
Transaction
National Beef is one of the largest beef processing companies in the Unites States.  National Beef processes, packages and delivers fresh and frozen beef and beef by-products for sale to customers in the U.S. and international markets. National Beefs products include boxed beef, ground beef, hides, tallow and other beef and beef by-products.  In addition, National Beef sells value-added beef products including branded boxed beef, case-ready beef, portion control beef and further processed hides.  National Beef markets its products to retailers, food service providers, distributors, further processors and the U.S. military.  For additional information concerning National Beef, see its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which may be found at .
www/sec/gov
The completion of the Transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of closing conditions, including, among other things: (i) expiration or termination of any waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended and (ii) approval of the Agreement by the members of USPB.  The board of directors of USPB has approved the Agreement and has agreed to recommend that USPBs members adopt the Agreement.  It is anticipated that the Transaction will close during the fourth quarter of 2011.
The Agreement contains customary representations and warranties made by National Beef, the Sellers, TMK Holdings and the Company. National Beef, the Sellers, TMK Holdings and the Company also agreed to various covenants in the Agreement, including, among other things, covenants relating to (i) the conduct of the business of NBP, (ii) certain actions that may be taken prior to the closing of the Transactions and (iii) certain termination rights, the exercise of which could occasion the payment of a $35 million termination fee by National Beef or the Company.
 
 
 
2
 
On December 5, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the execution of the Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 (d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
December 5, 2011
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:  
Laura Ulbrandt  (212) 460-1900
New York, New York- December 5, 2011- Leucadia National Corporation (NYSE: LUK) announced today that it has entered into a membership interest purchase agreement with National Beef Packing Company, LLC (National Beef) and its members, pursuant to which Leucadia will acquire 78.95% of National Beef for a net aggregate cash purchase price of $867.9 million to be paid from Leucadias available cash and investments.  National Beef is one of the largest beef processing companies in the Unites States.  National Beef processes, packages and delivers fresh and frozen beef and beef by-products for sale to customers in the U.S. and international markets. National Beefs products include boxed beef, ground beef, hides, tallow and other beef and beef by-products.  In addition, National Beef sells value-added beef products including branded boxed beef, case-ready beef, portion control beef and further processed hides.  National Beef markets its products to retailers, food service providers, distributors, further processors and the U.S. military.
The current owners of National Beef, U.S. Premium Beef, LLC, NBPCo Holdings, LLC and Timothy Klein, National Beefs Chief Executive Officer, will continue as minority owners of National Beef after consummation of the transaction. For additional information concerning National Beef, see its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which may be found at .
www/sec/gov
Completion of the transactions contemplated by the purchase agreement is subject to certain customary closing conditions, including, among other things, expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and approval by the members of USPB.  The board of directors of USPB has approved the purchase agreement and has agreed to recommend that USPBs members approve the transaction.
Leucadia expects to complete the transactions by the end of 2011 and anticipates that following consummation of the transaction, National Beef will continue to operate in the same manner and with the same management as is currently in place.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Leucadia also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend equal to $0.25 per Leucadias common share payable on December 30, 2011 to record holders of Leucadia common shares on December 16, 2011.
 
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Leucadia believes any such statement is based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of factors that may cause results to differ, see Leucadias reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 and its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended December 31, 2010. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Leucadia disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
 
Leucadia National Corporation, with its principal business address at 315 Park Avenue South, New York, New York 10010, is a holding company engaged in a variety of businesses.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2


