FILE:LUK/LUK-8K-20121130162815.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
|_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
|_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
|_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
|_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.              Other Events.
In connection with Leucadia National Corporations previously announced plan to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Registration Statement on Form S-4, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 are the financial statements set forth below under Item 9.01.
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
1
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
3
 
 
 
(1)  Interim Financial Statements
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The accompanying unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, for interim financial information; therefore, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included using managements best estimates and judgments where appropriate.  These estimates and judgments affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements.  The estimates and judgments will also affect the reported amounts for certain revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ materially from these estimates and judgments.  For further information, refer to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in NBPs Annual Report on Form 10-K on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC for the fiscal year ended August 27, 2011.  The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results for a full fiscal year.
 
(2)  New Accounting Pronouncements
 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, or ASU 2011-04.  ASU 2011-04 amends ASC 820, (ASC 820), providing a consistent definition and measurement of fair value, as well as similar disclosure requirements between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU 2011-04 changes certain fair value measurement principles, clarifies the application of existing fair value measurement and expands the ASC 820 disclosure requirements, particularly for Level 3 fair value measurements.  ASU 2011-04 will be effective for the Company's third quarter of fiscal 2012.  The amendments in ASU 2011-04 are to be applied prospectively.  The adoption of ASU 2011-04 is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements, but may require certain additional disclosures.
Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS under
Fair Value Measurements
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued under ASU 2011-05 or ASU 2011-05.  ASU 2011-05 requires the presentation of comprehensive income in either (1) a continuous statement of comprehensive income or (2) two separate but consecutive statements.  ASU 2011-05 will be effective for the Company's first quarter of fiscal 2013.  The adoption of ASU 2011-05 is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements, but may require a change in the presentation of the Company's comprehensive income from the statement of members' (deficit)/capital, to the presentation of comprehensive income in either (1) a continuous statement of comprehensive income or (2) two separate but consecutive statements. The amendments in ASU 2011-05 are to be applied retrospectively.   The adoption of ASU 2011-05 is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Presentation of Comprehensive Income
 
In September 2011, the FASB issued under ASU2011-08, which is intended to reduce the cost and complexity of the annual goodwill impairment test by providing entities with the option of performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether impairment testing is necessary.  The revised standard will be effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, with early adoption permitted under certain circumstances.  The Company is currently evaluating options related to early adoption.
Testing Goodwill for Impairment
 
(3)  Inventories
 
Inventories at November 26, 2011 and August 27, 2011 consisted of the following (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
(4)  Comprehensive Income
 
Comprehensive income, which consists of net income and foreign currency translation adjustments, was as follows for the periods indicated (in thousands):
 
(5)  Contingencies
 
The Company is a party to a number of lawsuits and claims arising out of the operation of its business.  Management believes the ultimate resolution of such matters should not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
 
(6)  Capital Subject to Redemption
 
At any time after certain dates, the earliest being July 31, 2010 in the case of NBPCo Holdings, the latest being July 31, 2011 in the case of certain affiliates of our Chief Executive Officer, Timothy M. Klein, or the Klein Affiliates, NBPCo Holdings and the Klein Affiliates have the right to request that the Company repurchase their interests, the value of which is to be determined by a mutually agreed appraisal process or a specified formula.  If the Company is unable to effect the repurchase within a specified time, the requesting member(s) have the right to cause a sale process to commence.
 
Generally accepted accounting principles require the Company to determine the fair value of the capital subject to redemption at the end of each reporting period.  The carrying value of capital subject to redemption reflects fair value.  In determining the fair value of the capital subject to redemption held by NBPCo Holdings as of November 26, 2011, management has considered the negotiated equity value for the transaction with Leucadia National Corporation; in determining the fair value as of August 27, 2011, management considered previous redemption prices, valuations of peer companies, and other factors. The capital subject to redemption held by the Klein Affiliates as of November 26, 2011 and August 27, 2011, was valued based upon a contractually stipulated valuation formula.
 
At November 26, 2011, the value of the capital subject to redemptionwas determined to be $314.3 million, which was equal to its carrying value.  The total value of the capital subject to redemption at November 26, 2011, decreased by approximately $36.7 million compared to the value at August 27, 2011.  The carrying value of the capital subject to redemption increased through valuation adjustments during the thirteen week period ending November 26, 2011 by approximately $38.2 million resulting in the $314.3 million carrying value, as reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of November 26, 2011.  Offsetting the change in value of capital subject to redemption is a corresponding change in members capital.
 
 
(7)  Fair Value Measurements
 
The Company determines fair value utilizing a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value.  The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted market prices (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3).  The three levels of inputs used to measure fair value are as follows:
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
The following table details the assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of November 26, 2011 and August 27, 2011 and also the level within the fair value hierarchy used to measure each category of assets (in thousands).
 
 
 
Management has used certain contractual redemption prices in measuring the fair value of the Klein Affiliates capital subject to redemption, which is included in level 2 as of November 26, 2011.  NBPCo Holdings Capital subject to redemption was previously based on unobservable inputs and included in level 3 as of August 27, 2011.  However, as of November 26, 2011, NBPCo Holdings capital subject to redemption was based on recent acquisition offer prices, thus included in level 2.
The following table presents a reconciliation of capital subject to redemption measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during the thirteen weeks ended November 26, 2011 (in thousands).
 
(8)  Disclosure about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
 
As part of the Companys ongoing operations, the Company is exposed to market risks such as changes in commodity prices.  To manage these risks, the Company may enter into the following derivative instruments pursuant to our established policies:
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
While management believes each of these instruments help mitigate various market risks, they are not designated and accounted for as hedges as a result of the extensive recordkeeping requirements associated with hedge accounting.  Accordingly, the gains and losses associated with the change in fair value of the instruments are recorded to net sales and cost of goods sold in the period of change.  Certain firm commitments for live cattle purchases and all firm commitments for boxed beef sales are treated as normal purchases and sales and not recorded at fair value.
 
The Company enters into certain commodity derivatives, primarily with a diversified group of highly rated counterparties.  The maximum amount of loss due to the credit risk of the counterparties, should the counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of the contracts, is deemed to be immaterial as of November 26, 2011.  The exchange-traded contracts have been entered into under a master netting agreement.  None of the derivatives entered into have credit-related contingent features.  The Company has $12.3 million and $14.5 million in cash collateral posted on its derivative liabilities included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet as of November 26, 2011 and August 27, 2011, respectively.
 
The following table presents the fair values as discussed in Note 7 and other information regarding derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments as of November 26, 2011 and August 27, 2011 (in thousands):
 
 
 
The following table presents the impact of derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the  thirteen week periods ended November 26, 2011 and November 27, 2010, respectively (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
(9)  Segments
 
The Companys operating segments are based on segment profit and evaluated by the Chief Executive Officer, who also serves as the Chief Operating Decision Maker, or CODM.  Segment profit is measured as operating income for NBPs two reporting segments, Core Beef and Other, based on the definitions provided in ASC 280, .
Segment Reporting
the majority of NBPs revenues are generated from the sale of fresh meat, which include chuck cuts, rib cuts, loin cuts, round cuts, thin meats, ground beef, and other products. In addition, we also sell beef by-products including hides to the variety meat, feed processing, fertilizer and pet food industries. Aggregation criteria were applied to determine the constituents of the Core Beef segment.
Core Beef
 
the Other segment of NBP consists of the operations of National Carriers, Inc., a refrigerated and livestock contract carrier company, National Elite Transportation, LLC, a provider of transportation logistics services,  and Kansas City Steak Company, LLC, a portion control steak cutting operation.
Other
 
this line item includes eliminations of inter-segment and intra-segment activity resulting from the consolidation process.
Eliminations
 
The following table represents segment results for the periods indicated (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
(10)  Subsequent Events
 
 
 
 
On December 5, 2011, U.S. Premium Beef, LLC and National Beef Packing Company, LLC announced that the
owners of National Beef Packing Company, LLC entered into a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement with Leucadia
National Corporation, or Leucadia, under which Leucadia would acquire approximately 79% of the outstanding ownership
interests in National Beef Packing Company, LLC for approximately $875.4 million (the "Leucadia Transaction"). The transaction became effective on December 30, 2011.
On December 2, 2011, the Company and its subsidiaries National Beef California, LP and National Carriers, Inc.
entered into the Third Amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and Limited Consent with CoBank, ACB
and various other lenders (the Third Amendment). The Third Amendment amends the Amended and Restated Credit
Agreement dated as of June 4, 2010 (the Credit Facility). The Third Amendment became effective contemporaneously
with the closing of the Leucadia Transaction. The primary purpose of the Third Amendment was to amend the Credit Facility
to (i) consent to the Leucadia Transaction, (ii) take into account the formation of National Beef Pennsylvania, LLC (National
Beef PA) and the corresponding contribution by the Company of certain assets to National Beef PA, (iii) provide for the
addition of National Beef PA as a borrower under the Credit Facility, and (iv) permit the Companys fiscal year to change to a fifty-two or fifty-three week period ending on the last Saturday in December, effective upon consummation of the Leucadia
Transaction. The principal provisions of the Credit Facility are unchanged by the Third Amendment.
 
 
 
 
 
9


