FILE:LUK/LUK-8K-20121113170133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Merger Agreement
On November 11, 2012, Leucadia National Corporation (the "") and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Limestone Merger Sub, LLC, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Jefferies Group, Inc. ("") and its subsidiaries, JSP Holdings, Inc., and Jasper Merger Sub, Inc. (the "") pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, Jefferies will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Leucadia (the "").
Company
Jefferies
Merger Agreement
Merger
At the effective time of the Merger, each former Jefferies share of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (excluding Jefferies shares held by the Company), will be converted into the right to receive 0.81 of a Company common share (the ""). The Exchange Ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted for changes in the market value of the Company common shares or Jefferies common stock.
Exchange Ratio
The Company will not assume or guarantee any of Jefferies' outstanding debt securities, but Jefferies' 3.875% Convertible Senior Debentures due 2029 will become convertible into common shares of the Company following the Merger, giving effect to the Exchange Ratio. Additionally, if not redeemed by Jefferies prior to the effective time of the Merger, Jefferies' 3.25% Series A Convertible Cumulative Preferred Stock will be exchanged for a comparable series of convertible preferred shares of the Company.
In connection with the Merger, each outstanding stock option to purchase shares of Jefferies common stock, each restricted share of Jefferies common stock and each performance based restricted stock unit of Jefferies Common Stock will at the effective time of the Merger, be converted at the Exchange Ratio into an award of options, restricted shares or restricted stock units of the Company, with all such awards subject to the same terms and conditions, including, without limitation, vesting and, in the case of performance-based restricted stock units, performance being measured at current targets.
The respective boards of directors of the Company and Jefferies have approved the Merger Agreement and have agreed to recommend that their shareholders take favorable action in connection with the Merger. The Company and Jefferies each have agreed, subject to certain exceptions with respect to unsolicited proposals, not to directly or indirectly solicit competing acquisition proposals or to enter into discussions concerning, or provide confidential information in connection with, any unsolicited alternative business combinations. However, the board of directors of the Company and Jefferies may, subject to certain conditions, change its favorable recommendation to shareholders if, in connection with receipt of an alternative proposal that the board determines constitutes a "superior proposal" as defined in the Merger Agreement, such board determines in good faith that a failure to effect such a change in recommendation would be inconsistent with its fiduciary duties or if, in connection with an event occurring after the date of the Merger Agreement that was not reasonably foreseeable at the time of the Merger Agreement, it determines in good faith that a failure to effect such a change in recommendation would be inconsistent with its fiduciary duties. However, neither the Company nor Jefferies may terminate the Merger Agreement or fail to hold its stockholders meeting in the event of a change in recommendation.
The completion of the Merger is subject to satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including: approval by the Company's shareholders (by the vote of a majority of the shares cast, assuming a majority of shares outstanding are voted) and by the Jefferies' stockholders (by the vote of a majority of the outstanding shares) and the receipt of opinions that the Merger will qualify for federal income tax purposes as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The completion of the Merger is not conditioned on receipt of financing by the Company.
 
The Merger Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties of the parties and certain covenants and agreements, including the spin-off, prior to consummation of the Merger, of the Company's winery subsidiary, Crimson Wine Group, Ltd., in a distribution that is intended to be tax-free to shareholders of the Company. The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both the Company and Jefferies and provides that, upon termination of the Merger Agreement, under certain circumstances, each party may be required to pay the other party a termination fee equal to $90 million and/or, in certain other circumstances where the Merger Agreement is terminated, a party may be required to reimburse the other party for its expenses up to $3 million.
The Merger Agreement provides that if a stockholder of Jefferies (or group of such stockholders) would become entitled to receive in the Merger a number of the Company's common shares in exchange for such stockholder's Jefferies common stock that, together with any Company common shares such stockholder (or group) already owns, would equal or exceed 5% of the Company's outstanding common shares or total equity, a number of the Company common shares otherwise deliverable to such Jefferies' stockholder (or group) will be sold for cash (and not so delivered) so that the total number of the Company common shares held by such former stockholder (or group) would be less than 5% of the Company's outstanding common shares or total equity after giving effect to the Merger. The amount of the sale proceeds that would be paid to any such stockholder is described in the Merger Agreement which is an exhibit hereto. In addition, the board of directors of the Company has approved and has recommended that its shareholders approve an amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation adopting changes to the existing transfer restrictions that would apply to an acquisition transaction such as the Merger (including the Merger itself) unless the restriction is specifically waived by the Company's board of directors. Consummation of the Merger is not conditioned upon approval of this amendment.
The Merger Agreement is filed as Exhibit 2.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing summary has been included to provide investors and security holders with information regarding its terms and is qualified in its entirety by the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement. It is not intended to provide any other factual information about the Company, Jefferies or their respective subsidiaries and affiliates. The Merger Agreement contains representations and warranties by each of the parties to the Merger Agreement, which were made only for purposes of that agreement and as of specified dates. The representations, warranties and covenants in the Merger Agreement were made solely for the benefit of the parties to the Merger Agreement; may be subject to limitations agreed upon by the contracting parties, including being qualified by confidential disclosures made for the purposes of allocating contractual risk between the parties to the Merger Agreement instead of establishing these matters as facts; and may be subject to standards of materiality applicable to the contracting parties that differ from those applicable to investors. Investors should not rely on the representations, warranties and covenants or any descriptions thereof as characterizations of the actual state of facts or condition of the Company, Jefferies or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates. Moreover, information concerning the subject matter of the representations, warranties and covenants may change after the date of the Merger Agreement, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in the Company's public disclosures.
Voting Agreements
Simultaneously with execution of the Merger Agreement, at the request of Jefferies, the Company (which, through its indirect wholly owned subsidiary, BEI Jeffvest, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, holds approximately 28.6% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Jefferies), entered into a Voting Agreement dated November 11, 2012 pursuant to which the Company has agreed to vote, and to cause its subsidiary to vote, its Jefferies shares in favor of the Merger (the "").
Leucadia Voting Agreement
Jefferies has also entered into a separate voting agreements with each of (i) Ian M. Cumming, (with respect to 8.64% of the Company's outstanding common shares) and Joseph S. Steinberg (with respect to 9.63% of the Company's outstanding common shares) pursuant to which, on a several basis, each has agreed to vote such Company common shares
 
in favor of the Merger (such voting agreements, the "") and (ii) Richard B. Handler, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Jefferies, and Brian P. Friedman, Chairman of the Executive Committee of Jefferies (the "") pursuant to which, on a several basis, each has agreed to vote his Jefferies shares in favor of the Merger.
Executive's Voting Agreements
Jefferies Voting Agreements
The Leucadia Voting Agreement, the Executive's Voting Agreements and the Jefferies Voting Agreements (collectively, the "") will each terminate upon the earliest of (i) the date on which the Merger becomes effective, (ii) the termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms and (iii) the mutual agreement of the parties to the Voting Agreement.
Voting Agreements
The foregoing summary of the Voting Agreements does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the terms and conditions of Exhibit 10.1, Exhibit 10.2, Exhibit 10.3, Exhibit 10.4 and Exhibit 10.5 which are incorporated herein by reference.
On November 12, 2012, the Company and Jefferies issued a joint press release announcing the execution of the Merger Agreement. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
In connection with the Merger, Ian M. Cumming, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has agreed that, effective upon the consummation of the Merger, Mr. Cumming will resign as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Cumming will continue as a director of the Company, as well as of the Company's affiliate, HomeFed Corporation, and Crimson Wine Group, Ltd.
In connection with this resignation, upon the effective time, Mr. Cumming's employment agreement with the Company will be terminated and Mr. Cumming will be entitled to the benefits set forth on Exhibit 99.2 hereto.
The Company's press release dated November 12, 2012 announcing Mr. Cumming's resignation in connection with the effectiveness of the Merger is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 12, 2012, the Company and Jefferies made available a presentation related to the Merger. Exhibit 99.3 attached hereto, which is incorporated into Item 7.01 hereof, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
Exchange Act
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits
 
IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WILL BE FILED WITH THE SEC
Leucadia National Corporation (the "") plans to file with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 in connection with the proposed transaction, and the Company and Jefferies Group, Inc. ("") plan to file with the SEC and mail to their respective stockholders a Joint Proxy/Information Statement/Prospectus in connection with the proposed transaction. THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE JOINT PROXY/INFORMATION STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, JEFFERIES, THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION AND RELATED MATTERS. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE JOINT PROXY/INFORMATION STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS CAREFULLY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy/Information Statement/Prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by the Company and Jefferies through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy/Information Statement/Prospectus by phone, e-mail or written request by contacting the investor relations department of the Company or Jefferies at the following:
Company
Jefferies
 
 
PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION
The Company and Jefferies, and their respective directors and executive officers, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. Information regarding the Company's directors and executive officers is contained in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and its proxy statement, dated April 13, 2012, which have been filed with the SEC. Information regarding Jefferies' directors and executive officers is contained in Jefferies' Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2011 and its proxy statement dated May 7, 2012, which are filed with the SEC. A more complete description will be available in the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy/Information Statement/Prospectus.
SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Statements in this document regarding the proposed transaction between the Company and Jefferies, the expected timetable for completing the proposed transactions, future financial and operating results, benefits and synergies of the proposed transactions, future opportunities for the combined company, the disposal of the Company's assets, and any other statements about the Company or Jefferies' managements' future expectations, beliefs, goals, plans or prospects constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact (including statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," estimates and similar expressions) should also be considered to be forward looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements, including: the ability to consummate the proposed transaction; the ability to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals, stockholder approvals and the satisfaction of other conditions to consummation of the transaction; the Company's ability to consummate contemplated asset disposals; the ability of the Company to successfully integrate Jefferies' operations and employees; the ability to realize anticipated synergies and cost savings; the potential impact of announcement of the transaction or consummation of the transaction on relationships, including with employees, suppliers, customers and competitors; the ability to achieve revenue growth; national, international, regional and local economic, competitive and regulatory conditions and developments; technological developments; capital and credit markets conditions; inflation rates; interest rates; regulatory and other restrictions; environmental conditions; business and regulatory or legal decisions; the pace of regulation of the financial services industry; the timing and success of business development efforts; terrorism; and the other factors described in the Company's and Jefferies' 2011 Annual Reports on Form 10-K and their most recent quarterly reports filed with the SEC. The Company and Jefferies disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this document.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Leucadia ("LUK") and Ian M. Cumming ("IMC") agree that if a transaction with Jefferies Group, Inc. ("JEF") is completed, then upon completion:
1. IMC shall remain a director of Leucadia but shall resign as Chairman and CEO of LUK and shall resign as a director and /or officer, as the case may be, of all of its affiliates and subsidiaries (including JEF) but shall continue as a director of HomeFed Corporation and Crimson Wine Group, Ltd.
2. The IMC Employment Agreement shall be terminated and IMC shall be entitled to the following:
a) An immediate cash payment of $1,400,000, reduced by base salary paid after December 31, 2012;
b) Compensation under the Bonus Plan for 2012 in the maximum amount permitted without reduction. The amount to be paid shall be equal to the amount paid to Joseph S. Steinberg ("JSS"). Payment shall be made promptly following completion of the 2012 audit;
c) IMC shall be entitled until June 30, 2015, to personal use without charge of LUK's corporate-owned airplanes so long as LUK has such planes and subject to availability; provided that incremental cost of such use shall not exceed, for any year ending June 30, the average of his personal usage for 2010, 2011 and 2012 (any usage in excess of such expense shall be reimbursed by IMC at LUK's incremental cost). For the avoidance of doubt, personal use shall not include use at the request of LUK or in connection with LUK's business;
3. IMC's resignation as a result of the JEF transaction shall not be deemed a "voluntary termination" under IMC's 2011 Warrants and the Warrants shall continue to vest as written;
4. The June 30, 2003 Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement (as amended as of May 16, 2006) requiring repurchases of shares owned by IMC and JSS upon each of their deaths shall remain in effect through its term ending June 30, 2018;
5. As provided in the IMC Employment Agreement, IMC shall not, for six months following resignation, solicit customers, clients or employees of the Company, except as agreed upon;
6. IMC shall be entitled to receive benefits under the 1977 retirement benefits agreement with the predecessor to Leucadia Financial Corporation and any other retirement or deferred compensation plans in which he is a participant;
7. LUK shall continue until June 30, 2015 the $1 million of life insurance on IMC's life payable to IMC's designated beneficiaries;
8. IMC shall be entitled to buy the "office block" located in Salt Lake City, Utah for fair market value (FMV) as determined by appraisal;
9. IMC shall be entitled to buy such other miscellaneous assets from Leucadia as agreed to with Leucadia for FMV as determined by appraisal;
10. LUK shall cause appraisals of the items in 8 and 9 to be done by January 4, 2013 and IMC shall have until January 14, 2013 to notify LUK as to which items he wishes to purchase;
11. IMC shall be entitled to the use of the name "American Investment Company;" and
12. IMC shall continue to be covered under D&O, EPLI and other insurances/indemnifications he currently benefits from for actions/omissions occurring prior to his employment's termination, and will continue to be covered by all of the foregoing for all work he does to help transition.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
Leucadia  Jefferies
A Unique Combination
 
 
November 12, 2012
 
Note on Forward Looking Statements
This document contains "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward looking statements include statements about Jefferies' and Leucadia's future and statements that are not historical facts. These forward looking statements are usually preceded by the words "expect," "intend," "may," "will," or similar expressions. All information and estimates relating to the merger of Leucadia and Jefferies and the combination of our businesses constitute forward looking statements. Forward looking statements may contain expectations regarding post-merger activities, financial strength, operations, synergies, and other results, and may include statements of future performance, plans, and objectives. Forward looking statements also include (i) statements pertaining to our strategies for the future development of our businesses, (ii) the spin-out of Leucadia's Crimson Wine Group, and (iii) Jefferies' intention to remain subject to the filing requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward looking statements represent only our belief regarding future events, many of which by their nature are inherently uncertain or subject to change. It is possible that the actual results may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results indicated in these forward-looking statements. Information regarding important factors that could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from those in our forward looking statements is contained in reports we file and will file with the SEC. You should read and interpret any forward looking statement together with such reports.
 
Important Information for Investors and Shareholders
Leucadia National Corporation (Leucadia) plans to file with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 in connection with the proposed transaction, and Leucadia and Jefferies Group, Inc. (Jefferies) plan to file with the SEC and mail to their respective shareholders a Joint Proxy/Prospectus in connection with the proposed transaction. THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE JOINT PROXY/PROSPECTUS WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT LEUCADIA, JEFFERIES, THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION AND RELATED MATTERS. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE JOINT PROXY/PROSPECTUS CAREFULLY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy/Prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by Leucadia and Jefferies through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy/Prospectus by phone, e-mail or written request by contacting the investor relations department of Jefferies and Leucadia at the following:
 
Participants in the Solicitation
Leucadia and Jefferies, and their respective directors and executive officers, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. Information regarding Leucadia's directors and executive officers is contained in Leucadia's proxy statement dated April 13, 2012, which has been filed with the SEC. Information regarding Jefferies' directors and executive officers is contained in Jefferies' proxy statement dated March 28, 2012, which has been filed with the SEC. A more complete description will be available in the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy/Prospectus.
 
Note on Financial Presentation and Assumptions
This document presents financial information of Leucadia and Jefferies on a combined basis. The presentation makes certain stated assumptions including (i) the spin-out of Leucadia's Crimson Wine Group, (ii) the assumptions made pertaining to the financial reporting of the redemption of the Fortescue note and Pershing Square interest held by Leucadia and Leucadia's sale of Keen Energy, and (iii) the increase in Jefferies' book value calculated using the exchange ratio in the proposed transaction. These as well as other assumptions are made for presentation purposes only and may differ materially from actual results.
The combined presentation does not conform to or apply all of the requirements of acquisition method of accounting under FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 805, Business Combinations. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the acquirer recognizes, separately from goodwill, any identifiable assets acquired, including intangible assets, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree at their fair values. To the extent the acquisition consideration exceeds or is less than the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, goodwill or a bargain purchase gain, respectively, is recognized.
The financial information presented herein will be superseded by financial information to be contained in Leucadia's Registration Statement and Leucadia's and Jefferies' Joint Proxy/Prospectus.
 
 
Merger Overview
 
 
 
Press Release  November 12, 2012
 
 
 
 
Press Release  November 12, 2012 (continued)
 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK, NOVEMBER 12, 2012  Leucadia National Corporation (NYSE: LUK) and Jefferies Group, Inc. (NYSE: JEF) today announced that the Boards of Directors of both companies have approved a definitive merger agreement under which Jefferies' shareholders (other than Leucadia, which currently owns approximately 28.6% of the Jefferies outstanding shares) will receive 0.81 of a share of Leucadia common stock for each share of Jefferies common stock they hold. This exchange is intended to be tax-free to Jefferies' shareholders. The merger, which is expected to close during the first quarter of 2013, is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval to effect the merger by both Leucadia and Jefferies shareholders. In order to avert the possibility that the transaction would result in the application of tax law limitations to the use of certain of Leucadia's tax attributes, the merger agreement limits the amount of Leucadia shares that can be issued to certain persons that would otherwise become holders of 5% of the combined Leucadia's common shares by reason of the merger.
Concurrently with the execution of the merger agreement, Leucadia, Richard Handler, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of Jefferies, and Brian Friedman, Chairman of the Executive Committee of Jefferies and one of its Directors, have each agreed pursuant to separate voting agreements, among other things, to vote their respective shares in favor of the transaction; and lan Cumming, Leucadia's Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, and Joseph Steinberg, Leucadia's President and one of its Directors, have each agreed pursuant to separate voting agreements, among other things, to vote their respective shares in favor of the transaction. These voting agreements represent approximately 18.3% and 31.5% of the outstanding shares of Leucadia and Jefferies, respectively.
 
Press Release  November 12, 2012 (continued)
 
Upon the closing of the merger, Mr. Handler will become the Chief Executive Officer of Leucadia, as well as one of its Directors, and also remain Jefferies' Chief Executive Officer and Chairman; Mr. Friedman will become Leucadia's President and one of its Directors, and also remain Chairman of the Executive Committee of Jefferies; and Mr. Steinberg will become Chairman of the Board of Leucadia and will continue to work full time as an executive of Leucadia. Mr. Cumming will retire as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Leucadia upon the closing of the transaction and remain a Leucadia Director. The other Leucadia officers will continue in their present positions. In addition, upon the closing of the transaction, the four independent members of the Board of Directors of Jefferies also will join the Leucadia Board of Directors; the size of the Leucadia Board of Directors will be increased to fourteen.
Leucadia will continue to operate in its current form, except that the merger agreement contemplates that Leucadia's Crimson Wine Group, with a book value of $197 million, will be spun out in a distribution that is intended to be tax-free to current Leucadia shareholders prior to the completion of the merger.
Jefferies, which will be the largest business of Leucadia, will continue to operate as a full-service global investment banking firm in its current form. Jefferies will retain a credit rating that is separate from Leucadia's. Jefferies' existing long-term debt will remain outstanding and Jefferies intends to remain an SEC reporting company, regularly filing annual, quarterly, and periodic financial reports.
Following the transaction, 35.3% of Leucadia's common stock will be owned by Jefferies' shareholders (excluding the Jefferies shares owned today by Leucadia and including Jefferies vested restricted stock units). Leucadia's Board of Directors has approved a new share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase from time to time of up to an aggregate of 25 million Leucadia common shares, inclusive of prior authorizations. Leucadia's Board also has indicated its intention to continue to pay dividends at the annual rate of $0.25 per common share, but on a quarterly basis following the merger.
 
Press Release  November 12, 2012 (continued)
 
Mr. Cumming observed: "Joe and I have been partners for 34 years. He will be Chairman of the Board of the combined enterprise. His role as Chairman of the Board, along with other Leucadia and Jefferies Directors, will ensure continuity and propel our continued success. Rich and Brian managing the company will bring to fruition the abundant and profitable opportunities that will be realized by this merger. My relationship with Rich and Brian, both as advisors and, more recently, as business partners and Jefferies Directors, showed me they can manage Leucadia profitably long into the future. Their ability to manage and grow Jefferies through the elongated financial bubble, successfully navigate the crises that followed where others could not, and protect the firm from the attacks based on false information exactly one year ago with deftness and grace, should comfort all!"
Mr. Steinberg stated: "I am absolutely thrilled that Rich and Brian will be joining me as we move forward with our combined company. Ian and I have enjoyed working together for 34 years. He invited me into Leucadia and to be his partner. I am forever grateful for that opportunity. Our partnership produced great returns for shareholders and we have had a lot of fun. I expect that Rich and Brian will continue on the same track and intend to help in every way."
Mr. Handler stated: "Having known Joe and Ian for over two decades, this transaction represents the realization of a personal dream for me. Brian and I look forward to leading Leucadia, while continuing to serve as the hands-on management of Jefferies, which will become Leucadia's largest operating company. This merger will allow us to continue to create long-term value for all of our clients, shareholders, employee-partners and bondholders. I am honored with the trust and confidence Ian and Joe are demonstrating by allowing us to carry on their life's work."
Mr. Friedman said: "This merger will allow us to operate from a position of even greater strength, take advantage of opportunities that arise in and around the business of Jefferies, and continue Leucadia's longstanding practice of smart value acquisitions and investments. Our substantial combined equity base, ample liquidity and long-term focus will all support meaningful long-term value creation for Leucadia and Jefferies' shareholders. We also view with great enthusiasm the opportunity to work with Leucadia management, who have been instrumental in helping Ian and Joe achieve Leucadia's exceptional track record, as well as the management teams of each of the companies in which Leucadia is invested."
 
Press Release  November 12, 2012 (continued)
 
Jefferies & Company, Inc. acted as financial advisors to Jefferies. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. acted as financial advisors and provided a fairness opinion to the Transaction Committee of the Jefferies Board of Directors ("Transaction Committee"), and J.P. Morgan acted as financial advisors to Jefferies. Morgan, Lewis & Bockius acted as legal advisors to Jefferies, and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz acted as legal advisors to the Transaction Committee. Rothschild acted as financial advisors to Leucadia, and UBS Investment Bank acted as financial advisors and provided a fairness opinion to the Leucadia Board of Directors. Weil Gotshal & Manges acted as legal advisors to Leucadia, and Proskauer Rose LLP acted as legal advisors to the Leucadia Board of Directors.
Conference Call
A conference call is scheduled for November 12, 2012, at 9:00 a.m. to discuss the transaction. Investors and securities industry professionals may access the management discussion by calling (877) 710-9938 or (702) 928-7183. A one-week replay of the call will also be available at (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406 (conference ID #70517742). Presentation slides will be used during this call and can be accessed at the Leucadia website (www.leucadia.com) and Jefferies website (www.jefferies.com).
About Jefferies
Jefferies Group, Inc. (NYSE: JEF) is a global investment banking firm focused on serving clients for over 50 years. The firm is a leader in providing insight, expertise and execution to investors, companies and governments, and provides a full range of investment banking, sales, trading, research and strategy across the spectrum of equities, fixed income and commodities, in the U.S., Europe and Asia.
About Leucadia
Leucadia National Corporation (NYSE: LUK) is a diversified holding company engaged through its consolidated subsidiaries in a variety of businesses, including beef processing, manufacturing, gaming entertainment, real estate activities, medical product development and winery operations. Leucadia also has a significant equity interest in Jefferies Group, Inc., and owns equity interests in operating businesses including a commercial mortgage origination and servicing business.
 
Press Release  November 12, 2012 (continued)
 
For further information, please contact:
Peregrine Broadbent
Chief Financial Officer
Jefferies Group, Inc.
(212) 284-2338
or
Laura Ulbrandt
Corporate Secretary
Leucadia National Corporation
(212) 460-1900
 
Leucadia  Jefferies
Leucadia  Jefferies merger creates a unique combination
 
 
 
 
 
Merger Considerations
A merger of Leucadia and Jefferies should generate significant value for shareholders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Leucadia Investments
Following the merger, new acquisitions and investments will leverage the knowledge base, opportunity flow and execution capabilities of Leucadia and Jefferies' management team and operating businesses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance Sheet Strength and Scale
Merger will enhance both Leucadia and Jefferies' liquidity, scale and overall financial strength
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Jefferies and Leucadia.
 
Long-Term Leadership Stability and Strategic Continuity
 
 
 
 
Both Jefferies and Leucadia Have Long-Term, Value-Oriented Cultures
Jefferies and Leucadia's relationship has been built over twenty years
 
 
 
Source: Bloomberg and public company filings.
 
 
Jefferies Group
 
 
 
Key Jefferies Strengths
 
Source: Jefferies.
 
Key Jefferies Strengths (continued)
 
Source: Jefferies.
 
Core Principles
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share Price Performance Since 2000
 
 
 
 
Jefferies  A Full-Service Investment Bank
 
 
 
Jefferies  Financial Performance
 
Source: Jefferies.
 
Jefferies Revenues & Net Income  Since 1990
($ Millions)
 
 
 
Source: Jefferies.
 
Consistent Profitability Across the Cycle
($Millions)
 
 
 
Source: Jefferies.
 
Jefferies Profitability and Trading Income Much More Stable Than Peers
 
Source: Public filings.
 
Consistent Common Equity Growth
 
 
 
Source: Jefferies.
 
 
Leucadia National
 
 
 
Leucadia Overview
 
 
Leucadia's CAGRs do not reflect the benefit of annual dividends or the special 1999 dividend.
Source: Leucadia.
 
Leucadia  Subsidiaries and Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Leucadia.
 
Leucadia  Subsidiaries and Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Leucadia.
 
Leucadia  Recent Liquidity Events
Leucadia recently completed three major realizations, generating an aggregate of over $1.2 billion of incremental cash
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Leucadia.
 
Leucadia  Post-Merger Balance Sheet Parameters
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Leucadia.
 
 
Appendix
 
 
 
Reconciliations
Adjusted Jefferies Book Value Reconciliation
 
Source: Leucadia and Jefferies.
Adjusted Combined Book Value and Book Value per Share Reconciliation
 
Source: Leucadia and Jefferies.
 
 
Reconciliations
 
Leucadia Cash & Public Securities Reconciliation
 
Source: Leucadia.
Deferred Tax Asset Reconciliation
 
Source: Leucadia.
 
 
Reconciliations
 
Subsidiaries & Investments Capital Reconciliation
 
Source: Leucadia.
Combined Assets Reconciliation
 
Source: Leucadia and Jefferies.
 
 
Reconciliations
 
Leucadia Parent Company Debt Reconciliation
 
Source: Leucadia.
 
Jefferies  Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP Financial Measures
Three and Nine Months Ended August 31, 2012
(Amounts in Thousands)
 
Source: Jefferies 8-K filed September 20, 2012.
 
Jefferies  Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP Financial Measures
Three Months Ended February 29, 2012 and Three Months Ended May 31, 2012
(Amounts in Thousands)
 
Source: Jefferies 8-K filed March 20, 2012 and 8-K filed June 19, 2012.
 
Jefferies  Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP Financial Measures
Three and Twelve Months Ended November 30, 2011
(Amounts in Thousands)
 
Source: Jefferies 8-K filed December 20, 2011.
 
Jefferies  Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP Financial Measures
Three Months Ended August 31, 2011
(Amounts in Thousands)
 
Source: Jefferies 8-K filed September 20, 2011.
 


