FILE:LUK/LUK-8K-20120919163128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
|_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
|_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
|_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
|_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On September 19, 2012, Leucadia National Corporation (the Company) entered into an agreement with Fortescue Metals Group Ltd (Fortescue), its subsidiary, Chichester Metals Pty Ltd (Chichester), and Andrew Forrest pursuant to which (i) Chichester will redeem its 2006  royalty note maturing in August 2019 held by a subsidiary of the Company for aggregate cash consideration of $715,000,000 and (ii) the parties will settle all pending litigation and disputes without any additional payment.  Closing of the redemption and settlement is subject to certain conditions, including the closing of Fortescues new credit facility commitment announced on September 18, 2012 by Fortescue, which Fortescue expects to occur during the fourth quarter of 2012.  Should the closing occur, the Company expects to record a pre-tax gain of approximately .   
$526,000,000
 
A copy of the agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and a copy of the press release issued by the Company on September 19, 2012 announcing the execution of the agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
           
 
 
 
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
 
Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
is dated 19 September 2012
THIS DEED OF RELEASE, TERMINATION AND SETTLEMENT
 
 
:
BETWEEN
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as follows:
THIS DEED WITNESSES AND IT IS AGREED
 
 
 
means a day on which banks are open for business in Perth, Australia and New York, New York excluding a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday.
Business Day
 
 
means the condition referred to in clause 2.1.
Condition
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
means the proceedings in the Supreme Court of Western Australian between Leucadia, Baldwin, Chichester, Fortescue and Forrest having case book number CIV/2365/2010.
Court Proceedings
 
 
means (i) the dispute between the parties which is the subject of the Court Proceedings, (ii) any disputes, disagreements or claims related to, connected with or incidental to the subject matter of the Court Proceedings or arising out of similar facts to the facts relating to the claim the subject of the Court Proceedings and (iii) any disputes, disagreements or claims related to, connected with or incidental to the subject matter of the Baldwin Note, the Note Deed Poll or the Subscription Agreement.
Disputes
 
 
means 25 November 2012.
End Date
 
 
means the senior secured credit facility to be entered into in accordance with the commitment letter entered into on 16 September 2012 between Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Credit Suisse AG, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.N., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Fortescue and FMG Resources (August 2006) Pty Ltd, and with respect to an aggregate amount of up to US$4.5 billion, or any alternative financing effected in lieu thereof.
Facility Agreement
 
 
means the date on which sufficient funds first become available for use by Fortescue or its Related Entity under the Facility Agreement to pay its obligations hereunder, which is expected to occur by 15 October 2012 and which, pursuant to clause 2.2 hereof, Fortescue and Chichester shall use its reasonable best endeavours to achieve as soon as reasonably practical following the date hereof.
Financial Close
 
 
means the note deed poll dated 18 August 2006 between Chichester, as issuer, and Fortescue, as guarantor.
Note Deed Poll
 
 
includes:
Related Entity
 
 
 
 
 
means payment and receipt of the Settlement Sum to redeem the Baldwin Notes (including the related loan break fee), delivery of the Note Certificate and redemption of the Baldwin Notes in accordance with clause 4.
Settlement
 
 
means the date for Settlement being the 3rd Business Day after the date of Financial Close or such other date as agreed in writing by the parties.
Settlement Date
 
 
means US$715,000,000, which represents a US$100,000,000 return of principal on the Baldwin Notes and a US$615,000,000 loan break fee in full satisfaction of all Fortescue and Chichester obligations under the Baldwin Notes.
Settlement Sum
 
 
means the time at which Settlement is completed in accordance with the terms of this Deed.
Settlement Time
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
Clauses 3 through 11 (other than the first sentence of clause 7) do not become binding on the parties and Settlement must not take place unless and until Financial Close has occurred.  For the avoidance of doubt, upon the occurrence of the Financial Close, the parties shall be obligated to effect the Settlement as set forth herein.
 
 
To the extent that it is within its power to do so, each of Fortescue and Chichester will use its reasonable best endeavours to procure that the Condition is satisfied as soon as reasonably practicable following the date hereof and in any event by not later than the End Date.  Fortestcue and Chichester shall notify Leucadia and Baldwin in writing immediately upon satisfaction of the Financial Close.
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to clause 2.5, if the Condition has not been satisfied on or before 5.00pm (Perth time) on the End Date, either party may serve notice on the other terminating this agreement and in that event:
 
 
 
 
 
A party may only terminate this Deed under clause 2.4 if:
 
 
 
 
In consideration for releases, covenants and agreements given by Leucadia and Baldwin in accordance with this Deed and return of the Note Certificate in accordance with clause 4, Chichester undertakes to redeem the Notes in full by paying the Settlement Sum to Baldwin on the Settlement Date in accordance with clause 4.
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Settlement must take place at the offices of Fortescue at Level 2, 87 Adelaide Terrace, East Perth, WA 6004 at 12.00pm (Perth time) on the Settlement Date.
 
 
On the Settlement Date, Baldwin must deliver, and Leucadia must procure that Baldwin delivers, to Chichester the Note Certificate for all of the Baldwin Notes registered in Baldwin's name in the Register.  Such delivery shall take place at the offices of Chichesters agent in New York, New York as notified in writing by Chichester not later than 3 Business Days prior to the Settlement Date.
 
 
 
On the Settlement Date Chichester must pay, and Fortescue must procure Chichester to pay, the Settlement Sum in immediately available funds to Baldwin by wire transfer to such account as designated in writing by Baldwin not later than 3 Business Days prior to the Settlement Date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The actions to take place under this clause 4 are interdependent and must take place, as nearly as possible, simultaneously.  If one action does not take place, then without prejudice to any rights available to any party as a consequence:
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the terms of clause 7 of the Note Conditions, the parties agree that Chichester may redeem the Baldwin Notes prior to the End Date in accordance with this Deed, including payment of the Settlement Sum, and to the extent required Chichester and Baldwin (being the holder of all of the Notes on issue under the terms of the Note Deed Poll) agree that clause 7 of the Note Conditions is hereby amended to permit Chichester to redeem the Baldwin Notes prior to the End Date in accordance with this Deed, including payment of the Settlement Sum.
 
 
With effect from the Settlement Time, in accordance with clause 4 all of the Baldwin Notes held by Baldwin prior to such Settlement shall be redeemed and are automatically cancelled.
 
 
 
With effect from the Settlement Time, the parties to this Deed agree that:
 
 
 
 
With effect from the date hereof until the Settlement Time, the parties hereby agree that no further steps will be taken in the Court Proceedings other than to seek orders that the Court Proceedings be adjourned indefinitely with liberty to apply.   With effect from the Settlement Time, the parties hereby agree to discontinue the Court Proceedings with no order as to costs and consent to, and shall take all necessary steps to obtain, an order from the court to this effect as expeditiously as possible after the date hereof. 
 
 
With effect from the Settlement Time this Deed is in full and final settlement of, and, in accordance with the terms of this Deed, each party hereby releases and forever discharges, all and/or any actions, claims, rights, demands and set-offs, whether in this jurisdiction or any other, whether or not presently known to the parties or to the law, and whether in law or equity, that it, its Related Entities or any of them ever had, may have or hereafter can, shall or may have against any other party to this Deed or any of its Related Entities arising out of or connected with:
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Collectively the ).
Released Claims
 
The parties acknowledge that this Deed operates as a deed poll with respect to the Related Entities referred to in this clause who are not a party to this Deed and that each party enters into this Deed for itself and for and on behalf of each of its Related Entities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
With effect from the Settlement Time, each party hereby indemnifies, and shall keep indemnified, the other party against all costs and damages (including the entire legal expenses of the parties) incurred in all future actions, claims and proceedings in respect of any of the Released Claims which it or its Related Entities or any of them may bring against the other party or its Related Entities or any of them.
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
On the date of this Deed and with effect from the Settlement Time, each party represents and warrants in respect of itself that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On the date of this Deed and with effect from the Settlement Time, Leucadia and Baldwin each represents and warrants that Baldwin is the legal and beneficial owner of the Baldwin Notes.
 
 
The representations and warranties in clauses 12.1 and 12.2 survive the termination of this Deed.
 
 
Each party must take all reasonable steps, execute all reasonable documents and do anything reasonably required by any other party to give effect to the Settlement and the terminations, releases and other undertakings given in or contemplated by clauses 6, 7, 8 and 11 of this Deed.
 
 
Each party shall bare their own costs and expenses incurred by them in connection with the Court Proceedings, Released Claims, negotiation, preparation and execution of this Deed and any related documentation (including the fees and expenses of legal advisors and any applicable value added taxes).
 
 
This Deed may be executed in any number of counterparts.  This has the same effect as if the signatures on the counterparts were on a single copy of this Deed.
 
 
The invalidity of any clause contained in this Deed shall not affect the validity of the remaining clauses of this Deed.
 
 
This Deed and any non-contractual obligations arising out of or in connection with it are governed by the laws of Western Australia.
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
This Deed may only be amended if the amendment is set forth in a writing executed by the parties.
 
 
has been entered into as a deed on the date stated at the beginning of this Deed.
THIS DEED
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
September 19, 2012
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Contact:  Laura Ulbrandt
   (212) 460-1900
 
 
 
 
New York, New York, September 19, 2012 -- Leucadia National Corporation (NYSE: LUK) announced today that it has entered into an agreement with Fortescue Metals Group Ltd (Fortescue), its subsidiary, Chichester Metals Pty Ltd (Chichester), and Andrew Forrest pursuant to which Chichester will redeem its 2006 royalty note held by a subsidiary of Leucadia for aggregate cash consideration of $715,000,000, and the parties will settle all pending litigation and disputes without any additional payment.  Closing of the redemption and settlement is subject to certain conditions, including the closing of Fortescues new credit facility commitment announced on September 18, 2012 by Fortescue, which Fortescue expects to occur during the fourth quarter of 2012.  Should the closing occur, Leucadia expects to record a pre-tax gain of approximately $526,000,000.
 
 
 
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Leucadia believes any such statement is based on reasonable assumptions, there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of factors that may cause results to differ, see Leucadias reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 and its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended December 31, 2011. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Leucadia disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
Leucadia National Corporation, with its principal business address at 315 Park Avenue South, New York, New York 10010, is a holding company engaged in a variety of businesses.
 


