FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20040414162851.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
On April 14, 2004, Lam Research Corporation announced plans to repay in full its 4% convertible subordinated notes in June 2004, two years prior to maturity. This will result in a cash outlay of approximately $303 million, plus any accrued and unpaid interest as of the redemption date. A copy of the press release issued by Lam Research Corporation on April 14, 2004 is attached as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 14, 2004, Lam Research Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended March 28, 2004, the text of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits, is furnished pursuant to Items 9 and 12 and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, the information in the Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 14, 2004
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION CONTACT: Kathleen Bela, Investor Relations, phone: 510/572-4566, e-mail: kathleen.bela@lamrc.com LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION ANNOUNCES EARNINGS FOR THE QUARTER ENDED MARCH 28, 2004 FREMONT, Calif., April 14, 2004 -- Lam Research Corporation (Nasdaq: LRCX) today announced earnings for the quarter ended March 28, 2004. Revenue for the period was $231.1 million, and net income was $19.2 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, compared to revenue of $191.5 million and net income of $6.4 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, for the December 2003 quarter. Gross margin and operating expenses for the March 2004 quarter were $106.1 million and $81.4 million, respectively. The Company believes the presentation of ongoing results, which excludes certain special items, is useful for analyzing the ongoing business trends by removing the effects of expense recognition connected with its outsourcing strategy and consolidation. Tables that provide reconciliations of ongoing performance to results under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) are included at the end of this press release. Sequentially, revenue growth in excess of 20 percent combined with the leverage from the Company's business model almost doubled ongoing net income. Ongoing gross margin for the March 2004 quarter was 45.8 percent of revenue as expense control and improved utilization of factory and field resources more than offset the impact of planned compensation increases. Ongoing operating expenses increased in line with expectations to approximately $80 million for the period. Ongoing net income of $19.9 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, in the March 2004 quarter compares with ongoing net income of $10.0 million, or $0.07 per diluted share, for the previous quarter. ~MORE~
LAM ANNOUNCES EARNINGS FOR THE MARCH 2004 QUARTER...................PAGE 2 OF 6 Consistent with the recent acceleration in capital investment by semiconductor manufacturers, new orders of $350 million represent 29 percent growth over the prior period. The geographic distribution of new orders as well as revenue is shown in the following table: Total cash (cash equivalents, short-term investments, and restricted cash) rose by $47.1 million to $751.5 million at the end of March. Continued emphasis on working capital management and increased profits were the primary sources of cash generation. Deferred revenue and profit balances were $101.4 million and $56.6 million, respectively, and backlog reached $423 million at the end of the quarter. "We are pleased with the results for the March quarter. Our continuing focus on cost management, coupled with our revenue growth, resulted in improved profitability. Our operations excellence initiative, which includes management of receivables and inventory control, is enhancing our cash generation. As a result, we will retire our 4% convertible notes early by repaying them in full during the June 2004 quarter," stated James W. Bagley, Lam's chairman and chief executive officer. "The wafer fabrication equipment industry is in the early stages of a cyclical recovery. We expect demand to be robust over the next several quarters as semiconductor customers purchase equipment to produce their newest, most complex devices. We are winning next-generation applications with our etch product portfolio and believe our market position will continue to strengthen," Bagley concluded. Statements made in this press release which are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements relate, but are not limited, to the benefits of the Company's business model, future market conditions (including the strength of the Company's market position, the business environment and industry fundamentals), revenue growth, cash generation, early retirement of the Company's 4% convertible notes, and the Company's demand expectations. ~MORE~
LAM ANNOUNCES EARNINGS FOR THE MARCH 2004 QUARTER....................PAGE 3 OF 6 Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect as well as other risks detailed in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including specifically the reports on Form 10-K for the year ended June 29, 2003, and the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 28, 2003, which could cause actual results to vary from expectations. The Company undertakes no obligation to update the information or statements made in this press release. Lam Research Corporation is a major supplier of wafer processing equipment and services to the worldwide semiconductor manufacturing industry. The Company's common stock trades on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "LRCX." Lam's World Wide Web address is http://www.lamrc.com. Consolidated Financial Tables Follow ###
LAM ANNOUNCES EARNINGS FOR THE MARCH 2004 QUARTER....................PAGE 4 OF 6 LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA AND PERCENTAGES) (UNAUDITED) (1) The following table provides a reconciliation of the denominator of the basic and diluted computations for net income (loss) per share: Employee stock options, warrant and assumed conversion of convertible 4% and 5% notes were excluded from diluted net income per share calculations for the nine months ended March 30, 2003, because the effect was antidilutive due to the net loss for the period. Employee stock options, warrant and assumed conversion of convertible 4% notes were excluded from diluted net income per share calculations in other periods because the effect would have been antidilutive. Diluted net income per share for the three months ended March 28, 2004, includes the assumed conversion of the convertible 4% notes. Accordingly, interest expense, net of taxes, of $0.4 million must be added back to net income for computing diluted earnings per share.
LAM ANNOUNCES EARNINGS FOR THE MARCH 2004 QUARTER....................PAGE 5 OF 6 LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (IN THOUSANDS) (1) Derived from audited financial statements
LAM ANNOUNCES EARNINGS FOR THE MARCH 2004 QUARTER....................PAGE 6 OF 6 RECONCILIATION OF U.S. GAAP NET INCOME TO ONGOING NET INCOME (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA AND PERCENTAGES) RECONCILIATION OF U.S. GAAP GROSS MARGIN, OPERATING EXPENSES AND OPERATING INCOME TO ONGOING GROSS MARGIN, OPERATING EXPENSES AND OPERATING INCOME (IN THOUSANDS)

EXHIBIT 99.2 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION CONTACT: Kathleen Bela, Investor Relations, phone: 510/572-4566, e-mail: kathleen.bela@lamrc.com LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION ANNOUNCES PLANNED REPAYMENT OF ITS 4% CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED NOTES FREMONT, Calif., April 14, 2004 - Lam Research Corporation (Nasdaq: LRCX) announced plans to repay in full its 4% convertible subordinated notes in June 2004, two years prior to maturity. This will result in a cash outlay of approximately $303 million, plus any accrued and unpaid interest as of the redemption date. In addition, the Company announced that in April 2004, it has settled its related interest rate swap agreement, resulting in an increase in cash of $11 million and a transfer of $6 million from restricted cash to cash balances. Statements made in this press release which are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements relate, but are not limited, to the Company's plans to repay its 4% convertible subordinated notes. Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect as well as other risks detailed in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including specifically the reports on Form 10-K for the year ended June 29, 2003, and the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 28, 2003, which could cause actual results to vary from expectations. The Company undertakes no obligation to update the information or statements made in this press release. Lam Research Corporation is a major supplier of wafer processing equipment and services to the worldwide semiconductor manufacturing industry. The Company's common stock trades on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "LRCX." Lam's World Wide Web address is http://www.lamrc.com.


