FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20050223170932.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Adoption of Executive Incentive Plan Performance Goals for the first Half of Calendar Year 2005
     On February 16, 2005, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Lam Research Corporation (the "Company") established corporate performance goals for the first half of its calendar year 2005 incentive plan (the "Plan") for its named executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer. The Plan provides for the payment of incentive bonuses upon achievement of certain corporate, organizational and individual performance objectives. The corporate performance objective is based on the Company's operating profit. Each officer was assigned a target percentage of his or her base salary for the period, and the calculated incentive amounts may range from zero to 2.25 times the target amounts based on the achievement of the specified performance objectives. The calculated bonus amounts will vary to the extent that the actual performance exceeds or falls below performance targets. The amount of the final incentive payments is subject to the discretion of the Committee and may vary from the calculated incentive amount.
Item 3.03. Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
Amendment and Termination of Stockholder Rights Plan
     On February 23, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing that the Board unanimously voted to amend the Rights Agreement by and between the Company and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C. as Rights Agent dated as of January 23, 1997 to accelerate the final expiration date of the purchase rights issued thereunder. Under the terms of the amendment, the purchase rights will now expire at the close of business on February 28, 2005, rather than January 31, 2007, as initially provided under the stockholder rights plan. The stockholder rights plan will be terminated upon the expiration of the purchase rights, thereby eliminating the stockholder rights plan altogether.
     Copies of the amendment and the press release are attached as exhibits to this Form 8-K.
Item 5.02. Election of Director.
     On February 18, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors had appointed Dr. Seiichi Watanabe to fill a newly-created directorship on the Board. Dr. Watanabe was not immediately named to serve on any Board committees.
     A copy of the press release is attached as an exhibit to this Form 8-K.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Bylaws.
     On February 17, 2005, the Board of Directors unanimously voted to amend the Company's bylaws. Section 3.2 was amended to set the Board size by resolution of the Board. Prior to the amendment, the Bylaws fixed the size of the Board at six directors. Following the amendment of Section 3.2, the Board passed a resolution to increase the Board size to seven to enable the appointment of Dr. Watanabe to the newly-created directorship.
     Section 3.14 was amended to remove "executive officers" as defined under Section 16 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, from those officers to whom the Company may make loans and guarantee obligations.
     A copy of the bylaw amendment is attached as an exhibit to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 23, 2005
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 3.2
     The undersigned hereby certifies that he is the duly elected, qualified and acting Assistant Secretary of Lam Research Corporation (the "") and that the following resolution amending the Bylaws of the Corporation was approved on February 17, 2005 at a duly called meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation:
Corporation
     RESOLVED, That, in the judgment of the Board of Directors (the "") of Lam Research Corporation (the ""), it is deemed advisable to amend the Bylaws of the Company (the "") to change Sections 3.2 and 3.14 in their entirety to read as follows:
Board
Company
Bylaws
"3.2
NUMBER OF DIRECTORS
"The number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors then in office.
"No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director before that director's term of office expires."
"3.14
APPROVAL OF LOANS TO OFFICERS
"The corporation may lend money to, or guarantee any obligation of, or otherwise assist any officer or other employee of the corporation or of its subsidiaries who is not an "executive officer" (as such term is defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) or a director of the corporation, whenever in the judgment of the directors, such loan, guaranty or assistance may reasonably be expected to benefit the corporation. The loan, guaranty or other assistance may be with or without interest and may be unsecured, or secured in such manner as the board of directors shall approve, including, without limitation, a pledge of shares of stock of the corporation. Nothing in this section contained shall be deemed to deny, limit or restrict the powers of guaranty or warranty of the corporation at common law or under any statute."
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has hereunto set his hand set his hand and affixed the corporate seal this 23rd day of February, 2005.

 
EXHIBIT 4.15
AMENDMENT (the ""), dated as of February 18, 2005, to the Rights Agreement, dated as of January 23, 1997 (the ""), between Lam Research Corporation., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Mellon Investor Services LLC (f/k/a ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C.), a New Jersey limited liability company as Rights Agent (the "").
Amendment
Rights Agreement
Company
Rights Agent
WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent have heretofore executed and entered into the Rights Agreement.
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, from time to time the Company may, and the Rights Agent shall if the Company so directs, supplement and amend the Rights Agreement.
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has determined that an amendment to the Rights Agreement as set forth herein is advisable in connection with the foregoing and the Company desires to evidence such amendment in writing.
Accordingly, the parties agree as follows:
A. . Section 1(s) of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended and supplemented by deleting the following: "Final Expiration Date" shall mean the close of business on January 31, 2007", and replacing it with the following: "Final Expiration Date" shall mean the close of business on February 28, 2005."
Amendment of Section 1(s)
B. . Section 7(a) of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended and supplemented by deleting the following: "the close of business on January 31, 2007 (the "Final Expiration Date")", and replacing it with the following: "the close of business on February 28, 2005 (the "Final Expiration Date")."
Amendment of Section 7(a)
C. . This Amendment shall be deemed effective as of the date first written above, as if executed on such date. Except as amended hereby, the Rights Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall be otherwise unaffected hereby.
Effectiveness
D. . This Amendment shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of Delaware applicable to contracts to be made and to be performed entirely within such state. If any provision, covenant or restriction of this Amendment is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Amendment shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be effected, impaired or invalidated. This Amendment may be executed in any number of original or facsimile counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Miscellaneous
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, or unless the context otherwise requires, all terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Rights Agreement. The Rights Agent and the Company hereby waive any notice requirement under the Rights Agreement pertaining to the matters covered by this Amendment.

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
     
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Shawn Lynch, Corporate Communications, phone: 510/572-1726, e-mail: shawn.lynch@lamrc.com
Lam Research Corporation Contact:
Lam Research Corporation Appoints Dr. Seiichi Watanabe to Board of Directors
A semiconductor industry veteran, Dr. Watanabe brings wealth of technical and business expertise.
FREMONT, Calif., February 18, 2005Lam Research Corporation (Nasdaq: LRCX) today announced appointment of Dr. Seiichi Watanabe to the Company's board of directors.
"Dr. Watanabe is both a gifted technologist and visionary business leader, known for his relentless pursuit of technology innovation and business excellence during his tenure at Sony Corporation. He will be an excellent complement to the current depth of experience represented by the Company's directors, and we look forward to the perspective he will contribute," stated James W. Bagley, Lam's chairman and chief executive officer.
Dr. Watanabe currently serves as an Advisor for Sony Corporation following his retirement from the Company in June 2004, where he was executive vice president, Environmental Affairs. Career highlights include directing the Research Center at Sony and serving as president of Frontier Science Laboratories from 1989 to 1993 and from 1998 to 2001 as well as serving as president of the Semiconductor Company at Sony from 1994 to 1998.
Lam Research Corporation is a major supplier of wafer fabrication equipment and services to the world's semiconductor industry. Lam's common stock trades on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol LRCX. The Company's World Wide Web address is http://www.lamrc.com.

 
Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Shawn Lynch, Corporate Communications, phone: 510/572-1726, e-mail: shawn.lynch@lamrc.com
Lam Research Corporation Contact:
Lam Research Corporation Announces Acceleration of "Poison Pill" Provision Expiration
Stockholder rights plan will expire effective February 28, 2005.
FREMONT, Calif., February 23, 2005  Lam Research Corporation (Nasdaq: LRCX) today announced that the Company's stockholder rights plan has been amended to accelerate expiration of the purchase rights under the plan from January 31, 2007, to February 28, 2005. Thereafter, the rights plan itself will terminate.
"Our decision to accelerate expiration of the Company's stockholder rights plan follows numerous discussions with our major shareholders and reflects their perspective that such a plan is no longer necessary to protect their interests," stated James W. Bagley, Lam's chairman and chief executive officer.
Lam Research Corporation is a major supplier of wafer fabrication equipment and services to the world's semiconductor industry. Lam's common stock trades on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol LRCX. The Company's World Wide Web address is http://www.lamrc.com.


