FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20071217194346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On December 12, 2007, the Board of Directors of Lam Research Corporation (the "Company") approved an amendment to the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws") to comply with a NASDAQ listing requirement that all listed companies be eligible for a Direct Registration System ("DRS") no later than January 1, 2008. The amendment was made to revise Section 8.3 of the Bylaws to remove a provision requiring the Company to issue a stock certificate, at the request of a stockholder, for shares of stock held in uncertificated form, so as to make the Company eligible to participate in the DRS administered by The Depository Trust Company.
The description of the changes to the Bylaws contained in this report is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of Section 8.3 of the prior Bylaws, a copy of which was filed with the Commission on June 30, 2005 as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference, and the amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.4 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 17, 2007
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 3.4
     The Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Corporation are hereby amended, effective as of the date set forth above
:
     ARTICLE VIII, Section 8.3, :
is hereby amended to read as follows
          8.3. STOCK CERTIFICATES; PARTLY PAID SHARES
The shares of the corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the board of directors may establish by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the corporation's stock shall be issued or issuable as uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the corporation. Every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the corporation by the chairman or vice chairman of the board of directors, or the president or vice president, and by the chief financial officer or an assistant treasurer, or the secretary or an assistant secretary of the corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signatures has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
The corporation may issue the whole or any part of its shares as partly paid and subject to call for the remainder of the consideration to be paid therefor. Upon the face or back of each stock certificate issued to represent any such partly paid shares, or upon the books and records of the corporation in the case of uncertificated partly paid shares, the total amount of the consideration to be paid therefor and the amount paid thereon shall be stated. Upon the declaration of any dividend on fully paid shares, the corporation shall declare a dividend upon partly paid shares of the same class, but only upon the basis of the percentage of the consideration actually paid thereon.


