FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20070307170753.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On March 1, 2007, Lam Research Corporation (the "Company") named Nicolas J. Bright to the position of Executive Vice President of Products to focus on new business and markets. Mr. Bright was previously the Company's Executive Vice President, Regional Business and Global Products. In connection with the transition, Richard A. Gottscho, the Company's current Vice President and General Manager, Etch Products, has become Group Vice President and General Manager, Etch Products and undertaken additional product oversight responsibilities. In addition, Thomas J. Bondur, the Company's current Vice President of Business Development, has become Vice President of Global Field Operations and undertaken responsibility for the Company's Global Field Operations. Mr. Gottscho and Mr. Bondur are considered executive officers of the Company.
     In connection with Mr. Bright's new role, and subject to approval by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors, Mr. Bright's performance incentive awards will be modified pursuant to an agreement between Mr. Bright and the Company (the "Bright Agreement"). Provided that Mr. Bright meets certain vesting requirements set forth in the Bright Agreement, Mr. Bright will at minimum receive the target incentive amount previously established for his calendar year 2007 performance under the Company's 2004 Executive Incentive Plan and the average of the target incentive amounts established for his 2007 calendar year performance under the Company's Multi-Year Incentive Plans ("MYIP's") in addition to the amount previously accrued for his 2006 calendar year performance under the MYIP. Mr. Bright's base salary will remain unchanged.
     This description of the Bright Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual terms of the Bright Agreement, which will be filed by the Company as an exhibit to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 25, 2007.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 7, 2007


