FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20071214171325.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 10, 2007, Lam Research Corporation ("Lam Research") entered into a definitive agreement to acquire SEZ Holding AG ("SEZ") pursuant to the terms of a Transaction Agreement by and between Lam Research and SEZ (the "Transaction Agreement").
Under the terms of the Transaction Agreement, Lam Research will offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares of SEZ in an all cash transaction at a price of CHF 38 per share. Lam Research has agreed to pay CHF 641 million, which approximates US$568 million at the current exchange rate. Net of cash acquired, the purchase price approximates US$447 million.
The acquisition is expected to close in the March 2008 quarter, subject to the receipt of approval by the shareholders of SEZ, certain regulatory approvals, and satisfaction of certain other closing conditions.
The foregoing description of the Transaction Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such agreement which is filed as Exhibit 10.110 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
On December 10, 2007 (Pacific time), a "pre-announcement" and two press releases, one from Lam Research and one from SEZ were published in Switzerland. The English versions of the "pre-announcement" and the two press releases are attached as Annexes 2, 3 and 4, respectively, to the Transaction Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.110 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.110
Execution Copy
 
TRANSACTION AGREEMENT ), dated as of 10 December 2007, by and among Lam Research Corporation, a Delaware corporation ), and SEZ Holding AG, a corporation organized under the laws of Switzerland (the ). Buyer and the Company each a and together the .
("Agreement"
("Buyer"
(socit anonyme, Aktiengesellschaft)
"Company"
"Party"
"Parties"
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the covenants and agreements herein contained, and intending to be legally bound hereby, Buyer and the Company hereby agree as follows:
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
 
6
 
7
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
11
 
12
 
13
 
14
 
15
 
16
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement on the date first above written.
17
 
 
 
On 10 December 2007, Lam and SEZ entered into a Transaction Agreement providing for the public tender offer herewith announced. Both, Lam and SEZ are convinced that the combination of the two groups strengthens their market position. The combined entity will in particular profit from the complementary set of products and the expected leverage from distribution and aftermarket services. Further, the positive interaction between the development teams of both groups is anticipated to result in faster and more comprehensive developments in favor of the customers.
The public tender offer (the Offer) Lam will submit will extend to all publicly held registered shares of SEZ with a par-value of CHF 1 each (SEZ Shares). Additionally, the Offer extends to new SEZ Shares issued until the end of the additional offer period due to the exercise of options. The following will be the main terms and conditions of the Offer:
Price of the Offer
The net Offer price per SEZ Share will correspond to CHF 38 (Offer Price). The Offer Price is reduced by the gross amount of any dilution effects (e.g. dividend payments, repayments of capital, any other distribution, capital increases with an issue price of the shares below the offer price, sales of treasury shares below the offer price, issuance of options below faire market value of the option) becoming effective prior to the settlement of the Offer. The exercise of the currently outstanding employee stock options and the delivery of the corresponding number of SEZ Shares does not lead to an adaptation of the Offer Price.
Offer Period
The Offer is expected to be published on 8 January 2008. It is planned to leave the Offer open for acceptance for 20 trading days. Lam reserves the right to extend the offer period. Tenders will only be solicited once the Offer is published. Such Offer will also contain instructions on how tenders shall be made.
Conditions
The Offer will be subject to the following conditions (whereby the conditions a and b will be conditions precedent, while the conditions c through g will initially be conditions precedent and, after the Offer has been declared successful, become conditions subsequent):
 
 
Should one or several of the condition c) through g) above not have been met by the end of the (possibly extended) offer period and should Lam not have waived such condition(s), Lam is entitled:
Lam reserves the right to waive all or part of the conditions.
Further Information
It is expected that detailed information regarding the Offer will be published at the same place on 8 January 2008.
Registered shares with a par-value of CHF 1 each of SEZ Holding AG Security-number: 001235206 ISIN: CH0012352065 Ticker-Symbol: SEZN
Identification / Security-Number / ISIN / Ticker-Symbol
11 December 2007
NOTE TO U.S. HOLDERS OF SEZ SHARES
The Offer described in this pre-announcement is being made for the securities of SEZ, a Swiss company, and is subject to Swiss disclosure requirements, which are different from those of the United States. The financial information relating to SEZ has been prepared in accordance with non-U.S. accounting principles and thus may not be comparable to financial information of U.S. companies or companies whose financial statements are prepared in accordance
 
 
with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. U.S. holders of SEZ Shares are encouraged to consult with their own Swiss advisors in connection with the Offer.
Lam and any of their respective subsidiaries and any advisor, broker or financial institution acting as an agent or for the account or benefit of Lam may, subject to applicable Swiss and U.S. securities laws, rules and regulations and pursuant to exemptive relief granted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from Rule 14e-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) make certain purchases of, or arrangements to purchase, SEZ Shares from SEZ shareholders who are willing to sell their SEZ Shares outside the Offer from time to time, including purchases in the open market at prevailing prices or in private transactions at negotiated prices. Lam will disclose promptly any information regarding such purchases of SEZ Shares in Switzerland through the electronic media and/or the stock exchange and in the United States by means of a press release, if and to the extent required under applicable laws, rules and regulations in Switzerland.
OFFER RESTRICTIONS
United Kingdom
The offering documents in connection with the Offer are being distributed in the United Kingdom only to and are directed at (a) persons who have experience in matters relating to investments falling within Article 19 (1) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2001, as amended, in the United Kingdom (the Order) or (b) high net worth entities, and other persons to whom they may otherwise lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49 (1) of the Order (all such persons together being referred to as relevant persons). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or rely on this document or any of its contents. The offer referred to in the tender documents is not available, and will not be engaged in with persons that are not relevant persons.
Other Jurisdictions
The tender offer referred to herein is not directly or indirectly made in a country or jurisdictions in which such offer would be illegal, otherwise violate the applicable law or an ordinance or which would require Lam Research Corporation to change the terms or conditions of the tender offer in any way, to submit an additional application to or to perform additional actions in relation to any state, regulatory or legal authority. It is not intended to extend the tender offer to any such country or such jurisdiction. Documents relating to the tender offer must neither be distributed in such countries or jurisdictions nor be sent to such countries or jurisdictions. Such documents must not be used for the purpose of soliciting the purchase of securities of SEZ Holding AG from anyone from such countries or jurisdictions.
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Lam Research Corporation Contact:
Carol Raeburn, Investor Relations, phone: 510/572-4450, e-mail: carol.raeburn@lamresearch.com
LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION ANNOUNCES INTENT TO ACQUIRE THE SEZ GROUP
Transaction will Create the Largest and Most Comprehensive Set of Advanced Technology Solutions for Single Wafer Cleaning.
FREMONT, Calif., December 10, 2007Lam Research Corporation (NASDAQ: LRCX) today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire the SEZ Group (SWX: SEZN), the leading supplier of single wafer clean technology and products to the global semiconductor manufacturing industry. In an all cash transaction, Lam Research has agreed to pay CHF 641 million, which approximates US$568 million at the current exchange rate. Net of cash acquired, the purchase price approximates US$447 million. Lam will effect the acquisition by offering to acquire, as provided in the agreement, all of the outstanding shares of SEZ at a price of CHF 38 per share.
SEZ's proprietary Spin-Process single wafer technology forms the basis of a broad equipment solution portfolio for wafer cleaning and decontamination, a key process adjacent to etch where Lam Research is the global market share leader. SEZ is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland and maintains development, manufacturing, sales, marketing and service operations in Europe, Asia and North America. For 2007, SEZ currently expects to record total revenues of approximately CHF 330 million (US$293 million).
 
Under the terms of the agreement, Lam Research will offer to acquire all of the outstanding shares of SEZ, and therefore effectively all of its assets, including its principal facilities in Villach, Austria. Following the closing, SEZ will become a division of Lam Research and offer a full spectrum of leading edge clean solutions, comprising products from its current businesses as well as Lam's single wafer bevel and wet clean applications. SEZ executive team members, including chairman and chief executive officer Egon Putzi, will continue with the Company under Lam's ownership. The transaction is expected to close in the March 2008 quarter, subject to the receipt of SEZ's shareholder and certain regulatory approvals, and is targeted to be neutral to slightly accretive depending on synergies realized in calendar 2008.
"This transaction positions Lam Research and SEZ to revolutionize the increasingly important area of wafer cleaning, combining the world's largest single wafer installed base with Lam's emerging clean technologies, process integration capabilities and global scale," stated Steve Newberry, President and Chief Executive Officer of Lam Research. "Together, Lam and SEZ will create a stronger, established presence in the clean segment of the wafer fab equipment industry with the ability to deliver the broadest set of leading edge high productivity clean solutions to our customers. In addition, we will increase our ability to support our customers' needs in solving the technical challenges of post etch and strip yield issues present in today's most advanced semiconductor devices. Through our combined strengths we will increase our capability to provide single wafer clean solutions, utilizing both spin and linear wet clean technologies as well as our plasma etch based bevel cleaning capability. At Lam, we are committed to executing on our multi-product, multi-market growth strategy, and this transaction facilitates our progress in achieving our stated goals. We have been very impressed by the quality of SEZ's operational and engineering capabilities, as well as the caliber of its management team and employees, making them the perfect addition to our Company," Newberry concluded.
 
Lam Research will host a conference call to discuss the planned acquisition tomorrow, Tuesday December 11, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. Pacific Time. Details of the conference call will be available on the Investors section of Lam's website at .
www.lamresearch.com
Lam Research Corporation is a major provider of wafer fabrication equipment and services to the world's semiconductor industry. Lam's common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Marketunder the symbol LRCX. Lam is a NASDAQ-100 company. The Company's World Wide Web address is .
SM
www.lamresearch.com
The SEZ Group is the leading provider of single-wafer wet-clean processing solutions for the semiconductor industry, with an installed base of over 1,200 tools. The company maintains operations in Asia Pacific, Europe, Japan and North America. Since 1996, registered shares of SEZ Holding Ltd. have been traded on the SWX Swiss Exchange under the symbol SEZN. Additional information about the company is available on the Internet at .
www.sez.com
Statements made in this press release which are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements relate, but are not limited, to the Company's expectations regarding the parties ability to close the transaction and fulfill the terms of their agreement, future plans for SEZ and Lam, their capabilities and the results of their operations, Lam's future strategies including its multi-product growth strategy, the closing date for the transaction, and the anticipated effects of the transaction such as creating a stronger market presence, delivering a broader
 
base of solutions, and increasing our capability to provide single wafer clean solutions. Some factors that may affect these forward-looking statements include: securing approvals from SEZ's shareholders and the Swiss takeover authorities, customer reaction to the transaction, synergies developed after the transaction, business conditions in the semiconductor industry, overall economic conditions, competitor reaction to the transaction, and our response to competitor actions. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and are subject to uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect as well as other risks detailed in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including specifically the report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 25, 2006, and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 25, 2007, which could cause actual results to vary from expectations. The Company undertakes no obligation to update the information or statements made in this press release.
 
 
Press Release
SEZ Holding Welcomes Planned Acquisition by Lam Research
Public tender offer expected to be launched beginning of January 2008
Zurich, December 11, 2007  The SEZ Group (SWX Swiss Exchange: SEZN) announced today that its Board of Directors has signed a binding transaction agreement with Lam Research Corporation (NASDAQ: LRCX), headquartered in Fremont, California, United States. In line with the transaction agreement, Lam Research intends to launch a public tender offer for all outstanding shares of SEZ at Swiss Francs (CHF) 38.00 per SEZ registered share. After a thorough review of the proposed transaction, SEZ's Board of Directors has unanimously concluded that the planned acquisition by Lam Research is in the best interest of all SEZ stakeholders and will positively benefit the sustainable development of SEZ's leading market position. The Board of Directors therefore fully supports the proposed tender offer. The offer shows an attractive premium of 53.8% to the volume weighted average share price over the past 60 trading days. Full details of the tender offer will be disclosed in the offer document, expected to be published early January 2008. The offer is expected to close in March 2008.
"The offer to be a part of Lam Research Corporation is an exceptional opportunity that will help us realize the full potential of SEZ's technology," said Egon Putzi, SEZ chairman and chief executive officer. "Lam's focus on developing leading-edge technology, providing best-in-class customer value and leveraging the full range of their global resources has made them one of the world's largest and most successful equipment providers." Kurt Lackenbucher, SEZ chief operating officer, added: "We believe that combining SEZ's leading single-wafer technology with Lam's innovative linear-clean and plasma technologies will provide manufacturers with a significant competitive advantage. The management of SEZ is convinced this combination will create immense value by delivering new capabilities to our customers that will unlock significant growth opportunities for all involved."
Today, both companies serve a common customer base, providing leading and complementary technologies and solutions. The combination is aimed at creating a true technology and market leader in the single-wafer cleaning markets, providing semiconductor manufacturers with the best-of-breed, comprehensive technology portfolio required to meet their future manufacturing needs. Delivering a broader equipment portfolio will also accelerate future growth and innovation. Under the terms of agreement, following the transaction's closure, SEZ will become a new division within Lam with capabilities focused around single-wafer cleaning technology. The entire SEZ executive team has committed to remain with the company.
Media and Analyst Conference
Today 11 December 2007 at 2:00 p.m. (CET), the SEZ Group and Lam Research will host a media and analyst conference to discuss the planned acquisition at Hotel Savoy Baur en Ville; Paradeplatz, Zurich. In case you are not able to attend personally, you can dial in via: +41 (0) 91 610 56 00 (International)
 
About Lam Research
Lam Research Corporation, one of magazine's "100 Fastest-Growing Companies" in 2006 and 2007 is a major supplier of wafer fabrication equipment and services to the world's semiconductor industry and market share leader in plasma etch. Lam Research's common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol LRCX. Lam Research is a NASDAQ-100 company. Additional information about the company is available on the Internet at www.lamresearch.com.
Fortune
SM
About SEZ Group
The SEZ Group is the leading provider of single-wafer wet-clean processing solutions for the semiconductor industry, with an installed base of over 1,200 tools. The company maintains operations in Asia Pacific, Europe, Japan and North America. Since 1996, registered shares of SEZ Holding Ltd. have been traded on the SWX Swiss Exchange under the symbol SEZN. Additional information about the company is available on the Internet at www.sez.com.
Villach/Zurich, 11 December 2007
 
Stefan Bulfon, Investor Relations SEZ Holding Ltd, CH-8050 Zurich; Tel. +41 44 308 39 48 / Fax +41 44 308 35 00 SEZ Management GmbH, A-9500 Villach: Tel. +43 4242 204-458/Fax +43 4242 204-469
For further information:
www.sez.com
Cautionary note on forward-looking statements
Certain statements contained herein are forward-looking. These statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to a historical fact or current fact. Forward-looking statements typically are identified by words or phrases such as "anticipate", "assume", "believe", "continue", "estimate", "expect", "foresee", "intend", "may increase" and "may fluctuate" and similar expressions or by future or conditional verbs such as "will", "should", "would" and "could". These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause SEZ's actual results, performance, achievements or prospects to be materially different from any future results, performance, achievements or prospects expressed or implied by such statements. Such factors include, among others:
These factors are not exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing environment and new risks emerge continually. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly revise or update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
Egon Putzi
Franz Sumnitsch
Kurt Lackenbucher
Sabine Kampitsch
Herwig Petschnig
Wolfgang Krammer
 
Subject to SEZ Holding AG and Lam Research Corporation entering into an agreement regarding an offer for all shares in SEZ Holding AG, I, [executive name], agree from [date of Transaction Agreement] not to engage in any transaction in or regarding shares of SEZ Holding AG which might result in Lam Research Corporation being obligated to increase its offer price for shares in SEZ Holding AG under article 10 section 6 of the Takeover Ordinance of the Takeover Board (Best Price Rule) or the minimum price rules of the Stock Exchange Ordinance of the Federal Banking Commission.


