FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20081112193018.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
See Item 8.01 below for information related to material definitive agreements entered into by Lam Research Corporation (the "Company").
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
See Item 8.01 below for information related to compensation arrangements for certain executive officers of the Company.
Indemnification Agreements
     The Nominating and Governance Committee of the Company's Board of Directors, at its regularly scheduled meeting on November 6, 2008, authorized the Company to enter into Indemnification Agreements with each of its Section 16 executive officers and directors. The form of Indemnification Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.148.
     Each Indemnification Agreement provides that, subject to certain exclusions, the Company shall indemnify the applicable Section 16 executive officer or director to the fullest extent permitted by law, including any greater indemnification that is afforded by a subsequent change in applicable law. The Indemnification Agreement also provides, among other things, for advancement of expenses and independent or disinterested determinations as to whether the standard for indemnification under the Indemnification Agreement has been met, and governs other procedural matters related to indemnification. The rights afforded to the indemnified persons under the Indemnification Agreements are not exclusive of other rights of indemnification such persons may enjoy under the Company's bylaws. The foregoing description of the Indemnification Agreements does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of the form of such agreements attached hereto as Exhibit 10.148.
Stock Option Reformations
     During the Company's voluntary internal stock option review that was completed earlier this year, the Company concluded that certain stock options ("misdated options") granted in prior years to certain current independent members of the Board of Directors as well as to the current Chief Executive Officer and Executive Chairman had an exercise price which was less than the closing price of the Company's common stock on the appropriate measurement date for financial accounting purposes.
Table of Contents
     The Board determined that all currently outstanding and unexercised misdated options for the individuals noted below should be reformed to reflect an exercise price equal to the appropriate fair market value per share on the appropriate measurement date.
     The Board of Directors has authorized the Company to enter into a Reformation of Stock Option Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit 10.149 with each of these individuals to reform certain misdated options held by them. As a result of the reformations, the exercise prices of the misdated options will be shown as equal to the appropriate fair market value per share on the correct measurement date. No payments will be made to any of these option holders in connection with these amendments.
     The Reformation of Stock Option Agreements will correct the exercise price of misdated options granted to each of Messrs. Arscott, Berdahl, Elkus, Harris, Inman, Newberry, and Bagley, as illustrated in the table below:
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 12, 2008

Exhibit 10.148
     This Indemnification Agreement ("") is made as of by and between Lam Research Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and ("").
Agreement
                    
                    
Company
                    
                    
Indemnitee
     WHEREAS, the Company desires to attract and retain the services of highly qualified individuals, such as Indemnitee, to serve the Company;
     WHEREAS, in order to induce Indemnitee to continue to provide services to the Company, the Company wishes to provide for the indemnification of, and advancement of expenses to, Indemnitee to the maximum extent permitted by law;
     WHEREAS, the Bylaws of the Company (the "") require indemnification of the officers and directors of the Company, and Indemnitee may also be entitled to indemnification pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "");
Bylaws
DGCL
     WHEREAS, the Bylaws and the DGCL expressly provide that the indemnification provisions set forth therein are not exclusive, and thereby contemplate that contracts may be entered into between the Company and members of the board of directors, officers and other persons with respect to indemnification;
     WHEREAS, the Company and Indemnitee recognize the difficulty that companies sometimes experience obtaining appropriate levels of liability insurance for the companies' directors, officers, employees, agents and fiduciaries, the significant cost of such insurance and the limited scope of coverage of such insurance;
     WHEREAS, the Company and Indemnitee further recognize the significant amount of corporate litigation in general, subjecting directors, officers, employees, agents and fiduciaries to expensive litigation risks at the same time as the cost, limited availability and scope of coverage of liability insurance continues, constituting substantial challenges for the Company;
     WHEREAS, Indemnitee does not regard the protection currently provided by applicable law, the Company's governing documents and available insurance as adequate under the present circumstances, and the Indemnitee and certain other directors, officers, employees, agents and fiduciaries of the Company may not be willing to continue to serve in such capacities without additional protection;
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") has determined that the increased difficulty in attracting and retaining highly qualified persons such as Indemnitee is detrimental to the best interests of the Company's stockholders and that the Company should act to assure such persons that there will be increased certainty of such protection in the future;
Board
 
     WHEREAS, it is reasonable, prudent and necessary for the Company contractually to obligate itself to indemnify, and to advance expenses on behalf of, such persons to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law so that they will serve or continue to serve the Company free from undue concern that they will not be so indemnified; and
     WHEREAS, this Agreement is a supplement to and in furtherance of the indemnification provided in the Bylaws and any resolutions adopted pursuant thereto, and shall not be deemed a substitute therefor, nor to diminish or abrogate any rights of Indemnitee thereunder.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants contained herein, the Company and Indemnitee do hereby covenant and agree as follows:
     Section 1. . Indemnitee agrees to serve as a [director][officer] of the Company. Indemnitee may at any time and for any reason resign from such position (subject to any other contractual obligation or any obligation imposed by operation of law), in which event the Company shall have no obligation under this Agreement to continue Indemnitee in such position. This Agreement shall not be deemed an employment contract between the Company (or any of its subsidiaries or any Enterprise) and Indemnitee. The foregoing notwithstanding, this Agreement shall continue in force after Indemnitee has ceased to serve as a [director][officer] of the Company.
Services to the Company
     Section 2.
Definitions
     As used in this Agreement:
          (a) A "" shall be deemed to have occurred if (a) any "Person" (as that term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) is or becomes (except in a transaction approved in advance by the Board) the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under such Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities, or (b) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof unless the election of each director who was not a director at the beginning of the period was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period.
Company Change in Control
          (b) "" describes the status of a person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or of any other corporation, partnership or joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise which such person is or was serving at the request of the Company.
Corporate Status
          (c) "" shall mean the Company and any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which Indemnitee is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary.
Enterprise
 
          (d) "" shall include all reasonable attorneys' fees, retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, witness fees, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees, and all other disbursements or expenses of the types customarily incurred in connection with prosecuting, defending, preparing to prosecute or defend, investigating, being or preparing to be a witness in, or otherwise participating in, a Proceeding. Expenses also shall include Expenses incurred in connection with any appeal resulting from any Proceeding, including without limitation the premium, security for, and other costs relating to any cost bond, supersedes bond, or other appeal bond or its equivalent. Expenses, however, shall not include amounts paid in settlement by Indemnitee or the amount of judgments or fines against Indemnitee.
Expenses
          (e) "" means a law firm, or a partner (or, if applicable, member) of such a law firm, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither presently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent: (i) the Company or Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party (other than with respect to matters concerning the Indemnitee under this Agreement, or of other indemnitees under similar indemnification agreements), or (ii) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or Indemnitee in an action to determine Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement. The Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees and expenses of the Independent Counsel referred to above and to fully indemnify such counsel against any and all Expenses, claims, liabilities and damages arising out of or relating to this Agreement or its engagement pursuant hereto.
Independent Counsel
          (f) "" means any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, arbitration, alternate dispute resolution mechanism, investigation (whether designated by the investigative agency as a formal investigation or otherwise), inquiry, administrative hearing or any other actual, threatened or completed proceeding, whether brought in the right of the Company or otherwise and whether of a civil, criminal, administrative, regulatory or investigative nature, in which Indemnitee was, is or will be involved as a party or otherwise by reason of the fact of the Indemnitee's Corporate Status, by reason of any action taken by Indemnitee or of any action on his [or her] part while acting in his [or her] Corporate Status, or by reason of the fact that he [or she] is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another Enterprise, in each case whether or not serving in such capacity at the time any liability or expense is incurred for which indemnification, reimbursement, or advancement of expenses can be provided under this Agreement; , , that the term "Proceeding" shall not include any action, suit or arbitration initiated by Indemnitee to enforce Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement.
Proceeding
provided
however
     Section 3. . The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3 if Indemnitee is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or a participant in any Proceeding, other than a Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor. Pursuant to this Section 3, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee or on his behalf in connection with such
Indemnity in Third-Party Proceedings
 
Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein, if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, in the case of a criminal proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful. Indemnitee shall not enter into any settlement in connection with a Proceeding without the Company's prior consent, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
     Section 4. . The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4 if Indemnitee is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or a participant in any Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor. Pursuant to this Section 4, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection with such Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein, if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company. No indemnification for Expenses shall be made under this Section 4 in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which Indemnitee shall have been finally adjudged by a court to be liable to the Company, unless and only to the extent that the Delaware Court of Chancery (the "") or any court in which the Proceeding was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, Indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnification for such expenses as the Delaware Court or such other court shall deem proper.
Indemnity in Proceedings by or in the Right of the Company
Delaware Court
     Section 5. . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee is a party to or a participant in and is successful, on the merits or otherwise, in any Proceeding or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, in whole or in part, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith. If Indemnitee is not wholly successful in such Proceeding but is successful, on the merits or otherwise, as to one or more but less than all claims, issues or matters in such Proceeding, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against (a) all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection with each successfully resolved claim, issue or matter and (b) any claim, issue or matter related to any such successfully resolved claim, issue or matter. For purposes of this Section and without limitation, the termination of any claim, issue or matter in such a Proceeding by dismissal, with or without prejudice, shall be deemed to be a successful result as to such claim, issue or matter.
Indemnification for Expenses of a Party Who is Wholly or Partly Successful
     Section 6. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason of his Corporate Status, a witness in any Proceeding to which Indemnitee is not a party, he shall be indemnified against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection therewith.
Indemnification for Expenses of a Witness
     Section 7. .
Additional Indemnification
          (a) Notwithstanding any limitation in Sections 3, 4, or 5, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law if Indemnitee is a party to or is threatened to be made a party to any Proceeding (including a Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor) against all Expenses, judgments, fines and amounts
 
paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection with the Proceeding.
          (b) For purposes of Section 7(a), the meaning of the phrase "to the fullest extent permitted by law" shall include, but not be limited to:
               (i) to the fullest extent permitted by the provision of the DGCL that authorizes or contemplates additional indemnification by agreement, or the corresponding provision of any amendment to or replacement of the DGCL or such provision thereof; and
               (ii) to the fullest extent authorized or permitted by any amendments to or replacements of the DGCL adopted after the date of this Agreement that increase the extent to which a corporation may indemnify its officers and directors.
     Section 8. . Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, the Company shall not be obligated under this Agreement to make any indemnity:
Exclusions
          (a) for which payment has actually been made to or on behalf of Indemnitee under any insurance policy or other indemnity provision, except with respect to any excess beyond the amount paid under any insurance policy or other indemnity provision;
          (b) for an accounting of profits made from the purchase and sale (or sale and purchase) by Indemnitee of securities of the Company within the meaning of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or similar provisions of state statutory law or common law;
          (c) for claims initiated or brought by Indemnitee, except (i) with respect to actions or proceedings brought to establish or enforce a right to receive Expenses or indemnification under this Agreement or any other agreement or insurance policy or under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation (the "Charter") or Bylaws now or hereafter in effect relating to indemnification, (ii) if the Board has approved the initiation or bringing of such claim, or (iii) as otherwise required under Delaware law; or
          (d) for which payment is prohibited by applicable law.
     Section 9. . The Company shall advance, to the extent not prohibited by law, the reasonable Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding. Such advancement shall be made within twenty (20) days after the receipt by the Company of a statement or statements requesting such advances (which shall include invoices received by Indemnitee in connection with such Expensesthe invoices to afford sufficient detail to permit the Company to assess the reasonableness of the Expense advancement requested; , that in the case of invoices in connection with legal services, references to legal work performed or to expenditures made that would cause Indemnitee to waive any privilege accorded by applicable law may be redacted from the invoice) from time to time, whether prior to or after final disposition of any Proceeding. Indemnitee shall reasonably cooperate with the Company to manage Expenses, and such cooperation may be considered in assessing the reasonableness of Expenses that are the subject of an advancement request; that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to undermine the purpose of
Advances of Expenses
provided, however
provided, however,
 
this Agreement or to purport to modify the professional obligations of Indemnitee's legal counsel. Advances shall be unsecured and interest free. Advances shall be made without regard to Indemnitee's ability to repay the expenses and without regard to Indemnitee's ultimate entitlement to indemnification under the other provisions of this Agreement. Advances shall include any and all reasonable Expenses incurred pursuing an action to enforce this right of advancement. The Indemnitee shall qualify for advances upon the execution and delivery to the Company of this Agreement which shall constitute an undertaking providing that the Indemnitee undertakes to the fullest extent required by law to repay the advance if and to the extent that it is ultimately determined by a court of competent jurisdiction in a final judgment, not subject to appeal, that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company. This Section 9 shall not apply to any claim made by Indemnitee for which indemnity is excluded pursuant to Section 8. The right to advances under this paragraph shall in all events continue until final disposition of any Proceeding, including any appeal therein.
     Section 10. .
Procedure for Notification and Defense of Claim
          (a) To obtain indemnification under this Agreement, Indemnitee shall submit to the Company a written request therefor to the Company.
          (b) The Company will be entitled, but not obliged, to participate in the Proceeding at its own expense.
     Section 11. .
Procedure Upon Application for Indemnification
          (a) Upon written request by Indemnitee for indemnification pursuant to Section 10(a), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement thereto shall be made in the specific case by the Board, by a majority vote of the directors of the Company who are not parties to the Proceeding, and, if it is so determined that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, payment to Indemnitee shall be made within ten (10) days after such determination. In the event that (i) there are no disinterested directors serving on the Board, (ii) no determination of entitlement to indemnification shall have been made pursuant to the preceding sentence within sixty (60) days after receipt by the Company of the request for indemnification, (iii) a determination is made pursuant to the preceding sentence that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement, or (iv) there has been a Company Change in Control prior to the determination by the Board, Indemnitee shall be entitled to have his [or her] entitlement to indemnification to be determined by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board, a copy of which shall be delivered to Indemnitee and, if it is so determined by Independent Counsel that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, payment to Indemnitee shall be made within ten (10) days after such determination.
          (b) Indemnitee shall cooperate with the Board or Independent Counsel, as applicable, making such determination with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification, including providing to the Board or such counsel, as applicable, upon reasonable advance request any documentation or information which is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and which is reasonably available to Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such determination. Any costs or expenses (including attorneys' fees and disbursements) incurred by Indemnitee in so cooperating with the Board or Independent
 
Counsel, as applicable, shall be borne by the Company (irrespective of the determination as to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification) and the Company hereby indemnifies and agrees to hold Indemnitee harmless therefrom.
          (c) In the event that Indemnitee exercises his [or her] right to have his [or her] entitlement to indemnification determined by Independent Counsel as contemplated by Section 11(a), the Independent Counsel shall be selected by Indemnitee. The Company may, within ten (10) days after written notice of such selection, deliver to the Indemnitee a written objection to such selection; , , that such objection may be asserted only on the ground that the Independent Counsel so selected does not meet the requirements of "Independent Counsel" as defined in Section 2 of this Agreement, and the objection shall set forth with particularity the factual basis of such assertion. Absent a proper and timely objection, the person so selected shall act as Independent Counsel. If such written objection is so made and substantiated, the Independent Counsel so selected may not serve as Independent Counsel unless and until such objection is withdrawn or a court has determined that such objection is without merit. If, within twenty (20) days after the later of submission by Indemnitee of a written request for indemnification pursuant to Section 10(a) hereof, and the final disposition of the Proceeding, including any appeal therein, no Independent Counsel shall have been selected and not objected to, the Indemnitee may petition a court of competent jurisdiction for resolution of any objection which shall have been made by the Company to the selection of Independent Counsel and/or for the appointment as Independent Counsel of a person selected by the court or by such other person as the court shall designate, and the person with respect to whom all objections are so resolved or the person so appointed shall act as Independent Counsel under Section 11(a) hereof. Upon the due commencement of any judicial proceeding or arbitration pursuant to Section 13(a) of this Agreement, Independent Counsel shall be discharged and relieved of any further responsibility in such capacity (subject to the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing).
provided
however
          (d) In the event that Independent Counsel is selected to make the determination of Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification as contemplated by clause (ii) or (iii) of the second sentence of Section 11(a), neither the failure of the Board to have made a determination that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct, nor an actual determination by the Board that Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct, and the Independent Counsel making such determination shall be bound by the presumptions set forth in Section 12.
          (e) The rights set forth in this Section 11 with respect to Indemnitee selecting Independent Counsel to determine Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, Indemnitee's rights set forth in Section 13.
     Section 12. .
Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings
          (a) In making a determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification hereunder, the Board or Independent Counsel, as applicable, making such determination shall presume that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this Agreement if Indemnitee has submitted a request for indemnification in accordance with Section 10(a) of this Agreement, and
 
the Company shall have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in connection with the making by the Independent Counsel of any determination contrary to that presumption. Neither the failure of the Board or of Independent Counsel to have made a determination prior to the commencement of any action pursuant to this Agreement that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct, nor an actual determination by the Board or by Independent Counsel that Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
          (b) The termination of any Proceeding or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of guilty, or its equivalent, shall not (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement) of itself adversely affect the right of Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company or, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, that Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
nolo contendere
          (c) For purposes of any determination of good faith, Indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in good faith if Indemnitee's action is based on the records or books of account of the Enterprise, including financial statements, or on information supplied to Indemnitee by the officers of the Enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Enterprise or the Board or counsel selected by any committee of the Board or on information or records given or reports made to the Enterprise by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser, investment banker or other expert selected with reasonable care by the Company or the Board or any committee of the Board. The provisions of this Section 12(c) shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the other circumstances in which the Indemnitee may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in this Agreement.
          (d) The knowledge and/or actions, or failure to act, of any director, officer, agent or employee of the Enterprise shall not be imputed to Indemnitee for purposes of determining the right to indemnification under this Agreement.
     Section 13. .
Remedies of Indemnitee
          (a) Subject to Section 13(e), in the event that (i) a determination is made pursuant to Section 11 of this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement, (ii) advancement of Expenses is not timely made pursuant to Section 9 of this Agreement, (iii) no determination of entitlement to indemnification shall have been made pursuant to Section 11(a) of this Agreement within sixty (60) days after receipt by the Company of the request for indemnification, (iv) payment of indemnification is not made pursuant to Section 5 or 6 or the last sentence of Section 11(b) of this Agreement within ten (10) days after receipt by the Company of a written request therefor, or (v) payment of indemnification pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 7 of this Agreement is not made within ten (10) days after a determination has been made that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, Indemnitee shall be entitled to an adjudication by a court of his entitlement to such indemnification or advancement of Expenses. Alternatively, Indemnitee, at his option, may seek an award in arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration
 
Association. Indemnitee shall commence such proceeding seeking an adjudication or an award in arbitration within 180 days following the date on which Indemnitee first has the right to commence such proceeding pursuant to this Section 13(a); , , that the foregoing clause shall not apply in respect of a proceeding brought by Indemnitee to enforce his rights under Section 5 of this Agreement. The Company shall not oppose Indemnitee's right to seek any such adjudication or award in arbitration.
provided
however
          (b) In the event that a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 11(a) of this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification, any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 13 shall be conducted in all respects as a de novo trial, or arbitration, on the merits and Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of that adverse determination. In any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 13, the Company shall have the burden of proving Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses, as the case may be.
          (c) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 11(a) of this Agreement that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 13, absent (i) a misstatement by Indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a material fact necessary to make Indemnitee's statement not materially misleading, in connection with the request for indemnification, or (ii) a prohibition of such indemnification under applicable law.
          (d) The Company shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 13 that the procedures and presumptions of this Agreement are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Agreement. The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against any and all Expenses and, if requested by Indemnitee, shall (within ten (10) days after receipt by the Company of a written request therefor) advance, to the extent not prohibited by law, such Expenses to Indemnitee, which are incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any action brought by Indemnitee for indemnification or advance of Expenses from the Company under this Agreement or under any directors' and officers' liability insurance policies maintained by the Company, regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be entitled to such indemnification, advancement of Expenses or insurance recovery, as the case may be, in the suit for which indemnification or advances is being sought.
          (e) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, no determination as to entitlement to indemnification under this Agreement shall be required to be made prior to the final disposition of the Proceeding, including any appeal therein.
     Section 14. .
Non-exclusivity; Survival of Rights; Insurance; Subrogation
          (a) The rights of indemnification and to receive advancement of Expenses as provided by this Agreement shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which Indemnitee may at any time be entitled under applicable law, the Charter, the Bylaws, any agreement, a vote of stockholders or a resolution of directors, or otherwise. No amendment, alteration or repeal of this Agreement or of any provision hereof shall limit or restrict any right
 
of Indemnitee under this Agreement in respect of any action taken or omitted by such Indemnitee in his Corporate Status prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal. To the extent that a change in Delaware law, whether by statute or judicial decision, permits greater indemnification or advancement of Expenses than would be afforded currently under the Charter, Bylaws and this Agreement, it is the intent of the parties hereto that Indemnitee shall enjoy by this Agreement the greater benefits so afforded by such change. No right or remedy herein conferred is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every other right and remedy shall be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other right or remedy.
          (b) The Company currently maintains an insurance policy or policies providing liability insurance for directors, officers, employees, or agents of the Company or of any other Enterprise, and to the extent liability insurance coverage of comparable scope can continue to be purchased at reasonable cost, the Company shall continue to maintain such coverage. Indemnitee shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage available for any such director, officer, employee or agent under such policy or policies. If, at the time of the receipt of a notice of a claim pursuant to the terms hereof, the Company has director and officer liability insurance in effect, the Company shall give prompt notice of the commencement of such proceeding to the insurers in accordance with the procedures set forth in the respective policies. The Company shall thereafter take all necessary or desirable action to cause such insurers to pay, on behalf of the Indemnitee, all amounts payable as a result of such proceeding in accordance with the terms of such policies. Where it is feasible to do so without materially impairing the Indemnitee's ability to defend himself [or herself] in a Proceeding, Indemnitee agrees to cooperate with the Company to maximize the insurance coverage applicable to a particular Proceeding, including without limitation by agreeing to be jointly represented by legal counsel with other directors, officers, employees, agents or fiduciaries of the Company who are also involved with the Proceeding, or by agreeing to legal representation by a legal services provider acceptable to the insurance carrier(s) that underwrite the liability insurance coverage purchased by the Company; that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to pressure an Indemnitee's or his [or her] legal counsel to violate any applicable rule of professional responsibility applicable to legal counsel's provision of legal services.
provided, however,
          (c) In the event of any payment under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and take all action necessary to secure such rights, including execution of such documents as are necessary to enable the Company to bring suit to enforce such rights.
          (d) The Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment of amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder (or for which advancement is provided hereunder) if and to the extent that Indemnitee has otherwise actually received such payment under any insurance policy, contract, agreement or otherwise.
          (e) The Company's obligation to indemnify or advance Expenses hereunder to Indemnitee who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer,
 
employee or agent of any other Enterprise shall be reduced by any amount Indemnitee has actually received as indemnification or advancement of Expenses from such other Enterprise. Where Indemnitee has indemnification rights relating to a Proceeding through both the Company and any other Enterprise involved with the Proceeding and the other Enterprise disputes primary responsibility to advance Expenses to or indemnify Indemnitee, the indemnification rights under this Agreement shall apply; that the Company's agreement to protect Indemnitee will be without prejudice to any rights the Company may have to seek from such other Enterprise reimbursement of any Expenses or other amounts paid on behalf of Indemnitee.
provided, however,
     Section 15. . This Agreement shall continue until and terminate upon the later of: (a) ten (10) years after the date that Indemnitee shall have ceased to serve as a [director][officer] of the Company or (b) one (1) year after the final termination of any Proceeding, including any appeal, then pending in respect of which Indemnitee is granted rights of indemnification or advancement of Expenses hereunder and of any proceeding commenced by Indemnitee pursuant to Section 13 of this Agreement relating thereto. This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of Indemnitee and his heirs, executors and administrators. The Company shall require and cause any successor (whether direct or indirect by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all, substantially all or a substantial part, of the business and/or assets of the Company, by written agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Indemnitee, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place.
Duration of Agreement
     Section 16. . If any provision or provisions of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement (including without limitation, each portion of any Section of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law; (b) such provision or provisions shall be deemed reformed to the extent necessary to conform to applicable law and to give the maximum effect to the intent of the parties hereto; and (c) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Agreement (including, without limitation, each portion of any Section of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested thereby.
Severability
     Section 17. .
Enforcement
          (a) The Company expressly confirms and agrees that it has entered into this Agreement and assumed the obligations imposed on it hereby in order to induce Indemnitee to serve as a [director][officer] of the Company, and the Company acknowledges that Indemnitee is relying upon this Agreement in serving as a [director][officer] of the Company.
          (b) This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, oral, written and implied, between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof; , , that this Agreement is a supplement to and in furtherance of
provided
however
 
the Charter of the Company, the Bylaws of the Company and applicable law, and shall not be deemed a substitute therefor, nor to diminish or abrogate any rights of Indemnitee thereunder.
     Section 18. . No supplement, modification or amendment, or wavier of any provision, of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by the parties thereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions of this Agreement nor shall any waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
Modification and Waiver
     Section 19. . Indemnitee agrees promptly to notify the Company in writing upon being served with any summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information or other document relating to any Proceeding or matter which may be subject to indemnification or advancement of Expenses covered hereunder. The failure of Indemnitee to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of any obligation which it may have to the Indemnitee under this Agreement or otherwise.
Notice by Indemnitee
     Section 20. . All notices, requests, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if (a) delivered by hand and receipted for by the party to whom said notice or other communication shall have been directed, (b) mailed by certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third business day after the date on which it is so mailed, (c) mailed by reputable overnight courier and receipted for by the party to whom said notice or other communication shall have been directed or (d) sent by facsimile transmission, with receipt of oral confirmation that such transmission has been received:
Notices
          (a) If to Indemnitee, at such address as Indemnitee shall provide to the Company.
          (b) If to the Company to:
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
or to any other address as may have been furnished to Indemnitee by the Company.
     Section 21. . To the fullest extent permissible under applicable law, if the indemnification provided for in this Agreement is unavailable to Indemnitee for any reason whatsoever, the Company, in lieu of indemnifying Indemnitee, shall contribute to the amount incurred by Indemnitee, whether for judgments, fines, penalties, excise taxes, amounts paid or to be paid in settlement and/or for Expenses, in connection with any claim relating to an indemnifiable event under this Agreement, in such proportion as is deemed fair and reasonable in light of all of the circumstances of such Proceeding in order to reflect (i) the relative benefits received by the Company and Indemnitee as a result of the event(s) and/or transaction(s) giving cause to such Proceeding; and/or (ii) the relative fault of the Company (and its directors, officers, employees and agents) and Indemnitee in connection with such event(s) and/or transaction(s).
Contribution
 
     Section 22. . This Agreement and the legal relations among the parties shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to its conflict of laws rules. Except with respect to any arbitration commenced by Indemnitee pursuant to Section 13(a) of this Agreement, the Company and Indemnitee hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agree that any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be brought only in the Delaware Court, and not in any other state or federal court in the United States of America or any court in any other country, (ii) consent to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Delaware Court for purposes of any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, (iii) appoint, to the extent such party is not otherwise subject to service of process in the State of Delaware, The Corporation Trust Company, Wilmington, Delaware as its agent in the State of Delaware as such party's agent for acceptance of legal process in connection with any such action or proceeding against such party with the same legal force and validity as if served upon such party personally within the State of Delaware, (iv) waive any objection to the laying of venue of any such action or proceeding in the Delaware Court, and (v) waive, and agree not to plead or to make, any claim that any such action or proceeding brought in the Delaware Court has been brought in an improper or inconvenient forum.
Applicable Law and Consent to Jurisdiction
     Section 23. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement. Only one such counterpart signed by the party against whom enforceability is sought needs to be produced to evidence the existence of this Agreement.
Identical Counterparts
     Section 24. . The headings of the paragraphs of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this Agreement or to affect the construction thereof.
Miscellaneous
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be signed as of the day and year first above written.

Exhibit 10.149
     This Reformation of Stock Option Agreement is entered into by and between ___ ("Optionee") and Lam Research Corporation., a Delaware corporation ("Company").
     WHEREAS, Optionee is a director of the Company;
     WHEREAS, Company previously issued to Optionee an option (the "Option") to acquire shares of Company common pursuant to one or more stock option agreement(s) (the "Option Agreement(s)") under the Company's stock option plans (the "Plan") (all references to shares and per share prices in this Reformation of Stock Option Agreement are as adjusted for subsequent stock splits);
     WHEREAS, based upon a voluntary internal review of Company's practices relating to stock option grants and other related issues, Company has now determined that the actual date of grant of the Option appears to be the Revised Measurement Date described in Exhibit A, based upon the best information available to Company;
     WHEREAS, the Plan requires that the exercise price of each option granted pursuant to the Plan be no less than the fair market value of Company shares on the date of grant of the option;
     WHEREAS, on the Revised Measurement Date, the fair market value of Company shares was the Corrected Exercise Price set forth in Exhibit A for each grant referred to on Exhibit A;
     WHEREAS, the parties desire to reform the Option Agreement(s) to reflect the exercise price per share required by the Plan, i.e., the fair market value of the Company's common stock Revised Measurement Date, which is set forth as the Corrected Exercise Price on Exhibit A.
     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
     A. The Option(s) and Agreement(s) are hereby reformed, to reflect that the exercise price per share with respect to the shares subject to the Option is the Corrected Exercise Price set forth on that Exhibit.
     B. Each affected Option is a nonstatutory stock option.
 
     C. The terms of the Option Agreement(s) not specifically reformed hereby remain in full force and effect.
     D. All defined terms used herein but not otherwise defined shall have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Option Agreement(s).
     E. This Reformation of Stock Option Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California.
     F. The Optionee has had an opportunity to consult with the Optionee's personal tax, legal and investment advisors with regard to this Reformation of Stock Option Agreement, and is not relying on Company or its agents for such advice. Optionee agrees that Company shall not be liable for any costs, taxes, loss or damage that Optionee may incur by entering into the Option Agreement or this Reformation of Stock Option Agreement; it being understood that Optionee will not pursue any claim, whether by way of indemnification or otherwise (i) with respect to any such costs, taxes, loss or damage, or (ii) with respect to costs incurred in connection with the negotiation and preparation of this Reformation of Stock Option Agreement; provided, however, that nothing herein shall otherwise affect any rights of Optionee to indemnification pursuant to the Company's bylaws or any other agreements or instruments of or with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
     The parties hereto have duly executed this Reformation of Stock Option Agreement on the dates set forth below.


