FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20080307165838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On March 3, 2008, Lam Research Corporation (the "Company"), as borrower, entered into a $250 million Credit Agreement, dated as of March 3, 2008 (the "Credit Agreement") with ABN AMRO BANK N.V (the "Agent"), as administrative agent for the lenders party to the Credit Agreement, and such lenders. Bullen Semiconductor Corporation, a wholly-owned domestic subsidiary of the Company ("Bullen"), entered into a guarantee (the "Bullen Guarantee") to guarantee the obligations of the Company under the Credit Agreement. In connection with the Credit Agreement, the Company and Bullen entered into certain collateral documents (collectively, the "Collateral Documents") including a Security Agreement by the Company (the "Security Agreement"), a Security Agreement by Bullen (the "Bullen Security Agreement"), a Pledge Agreement by the Company (the "Pledge Agreement") and other Collateral Documents to secure the Company's obligations under the Credit Agreement. The Collateral Documents encumber current and future accounts receivables, inventory, equipment and related assets of the Company and Bullen, as well as 100% of the Company's ownership interest in Bullen and 65% of the Company's ownership interest in Lam Research International BV, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. In addition, the Credit Agreement provides that any future domestic subsidiaries of the Company will also enter into a similar guarantee and collateral documents to encumber the foregoing type of assets.
Under the Credit Agreement, the Company borrowed $250 million in principal amount for general corporate purposes. The loan under the Credit Agreement is a non-revolving term loan with the following repayment terms: (a) $12,500,000 of the principal amount due on each of (i) September 30, 2008, (ii) March 31, 2009 and (iii) September 30, 2009 and (b) the payment of the remaining principal amount on March 6, 2010. The outstanding principal amount bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.75% per annum or, alternatively, at the Agent's "prime rate." The Company may prepay the loan under the Credit Agreement in whole or in part at any time without penalty. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, affirmative covenants and events of default, as well as various negative covenants (including maximum leverage ratio, minimum liquidity and minimum EBIDTA).
As a condition to funding under the Credit Agreement, the outstanding balance ($250 million) under the $350 million credit agreement, dated as of June 16, 2006 (the "LRI Credit Agreement") between Lam Research International SARL ("LRI"), the Agent and the lenders party thereto, was repaid in full. LRI is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. In addition, the Guarantee Agreement (the "Guarantee Agreement") pursuant to which the Company guaranteed the obligations of LRI under the LRI Credit Agreement was also terminated. The Company's obligations under the Guarantee Agreement were fully collateralized by cash and cash equivalents.
The foregoing descriptions of the Credit Agreement, the Bullen Guarantee, the Security Agreement, the Bullen Security Agreement and the Pledge Agreement do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to such agreements, which are attached, respectively, as Exhibits 10.111, 10.112, 10.113, 10.114 and 10.115 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and are incorporated by reference. The LRI Credit Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement were filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 19, 2006.
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
The information set forth above and referenced under Item 1.01 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1.02.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information set forth above and referenced under Item 1.01 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 7, 2008
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.111
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
     This CREDIT AGREEMENT ("") is entered into as of March 3, 2008, among a Delaware corporation (the ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and ABN AMRO BANK N.V., as Administrative Agent (the "Administrative Agent").
Agreement
LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION,
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
     The Borrower has requested that the Lenders lend to the Borrower up to $250,000,000 for general corporate purposes, including the payment for acquisitions.
     In furtherance of the foregoing, the Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a term loan facility, and the Lenders have indicated their willingness to lend on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein.
     In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
     . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.01. Defined Terms
     "" means ABN AMRO Bank N.V.
ABN AMRO
     "" means the acquisition by the Borrower of SEZ Holding AG pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement.
Acquisition
     "" means the Transaction Agreement dated December 10, 2007 between the Borrower and SEZ Holding AG.
Acquisition Agreement
     "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
     "" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
     "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
     "" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
     "" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Commitments
 
     "" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
     "" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Facility represented by (i) on or prior to the Closing Date, such Lender's Commitment at such time and (ii) thereafter, the principal amount of such Lender's Loans at such time. If the commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been terminated pursuant to , or if the Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender in respect of the Facility shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender in respect of Facility most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender in respect of each Facility is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
     "" means 0.0% per annum for Base Rate Loans and 0.75% per annum for Eurodollar Rate Loans.
Applicable Rate
     "" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
     "" means ABN AMRO Incorporated its capacity as sole lead arranger and sole bookrunner.
Arranger
     "" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
     "" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit D
     "" means, on any date, (a) in respect of any Capitalized Lease of any Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, (b) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease or similar payments under the relevant lease or other applicable agreement or instrument that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease or other agreement or instrument were accounted for as a Capitalized Lease and (c) all Synthetic Debt of such Person.
Attributable Indebtedness
     "" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended June 24, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
     "" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by ABN AMRO at its principal office in Chicago, Illinois as its "prime rate" for Dollar loans. The "prime rate" is a rate set by ABN AMRO based upon various
Base Rate
plus
 
factors including ABN AMRO's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by ABN AMRO shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
     "" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
     "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
     "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Loans and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Borrowing
Section 2.01(a)
     "" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office is located and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
     "" means, with respect to any Person for any period, any expenditure in respect of the purchase or other acquisition of any fixed or capital asset (excluding normal replacements and maintenance which are properly charged to current operations).
Capital Expenditures
     "" means all leases that have been or should be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capitalized leases.
Capitalized Leases
     "" means any of the following types of Investments, to the extent owned by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries free and clear of all Liens (other than Liens created under the Collateral Documents):
Cash Equivalents
     (a) readily marketable obligations issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof having maturities of not more than 360 days from the date of acquisition thereof; that the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged in support thereof;
provided
     (b) time deposits with, or insured certificates of deposit or bankers' acceptances of, any commercial bank that (i) (A) is a Lender or (B) is organized under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia or is the principal banking subsidiary of a bank holding company organized under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, and is a member of the Federal Reserve System, (ii) issues (or the parent of which issues) commercial paper rated as described in clause (c) of this definition and (iii) has combined capital and surplus of at least $1,000,000,000, in each case with maturities of not more than 90 days from the date of acquisition thereof;
 
     (c) commercial paper issued by any Person organized under the laws of any state of the United States of America and rated at least "Prime-1" (or the then equivalent grade) by Moody's or at least "A-1" (or the then equivalent grade) by S&P, in each case with maturities of not more than 180 days from the date of acquisition thereof; and
     (d) Investments, classified in accordance with GAAP as current or long-term assets of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, in money market investment programs registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which are administered by financial institutions that meet the standards set forth in clause (b) or (c) above, and the portfolios of which are limited solely to Investments of the character, quality and maturity described in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of this definition.
     "" means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980.
CERCLA
     "" means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Information System maintained by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
CERCLIS
     "" means a Person that is a controlled foreign corporation under Section 957 of the Code.
CFC
     "" means a Person whose assets consist (directly or indirectly) primarily (within the meaning of Section 956 of the Code) of stock in one or more CFCs.
CFC Holding Company
     "" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
     "" means an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
     (a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire, whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time (such right, an "")), directly or indirectly, of 25% or more of the equity securities of the Borrower entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Borrower on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such "person" or "group" has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right); or
option right
     (b) during any period of 24 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of the Borrower cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was
 
approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both clause (ii) and clause (iii), any individual whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that board or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the board of directors); or
     (c) any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert shall have acquired by contract or otherwise, or shall have entered into a contract or arrangement that, upon consummation thereof, will result in its or their acquisition of the power to exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling influence over the management or policies of the Borrower, or control over the equity securities of the Borrower entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Borrower on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such Person or Persons have the right to acquire pursuant to any option right) representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of such securities.
     "" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with and the initial Loan is made.
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
     "" means all of the "" referred to in the Collateral Documents and all of the other property that is or is intended under the terms of the Collateral Documents to be subject to Liens in favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties.
Collateral
Collateral
     "" means, collectively, the Security Agreement, the Pledge Agreements, each of the collateral assignments, Security Agreement Supplements, Pledge Agreement Supplements, security agreements, pledge agreements or other similar agreements delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to , and each of the other agreements, instruments or documents that creates or purports to create a Lien in favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties.
Collateral Documents
Section 6.12
     "" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to make Loans to the Borrower pursuant to in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on under the caption "Commitment."
Commitment
Section 2.01(a)
Schedule 2.01
     "" means the earliest to occur of (i) the Closing Date, (ii) March 31, 2008 and (iii) two days after the date on which the Administrative Agent receives notice from the Borrower that the Borrower wishes to terminate the Lenders' commitment.
Commitment Fee Due Date
     "" means (a) a notice of a Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Committed Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
 
     "" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit C
     "" means, at any date of determination, an amount equal to Consolidated Net Income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis for the most recently completed Measurement Period (a) the following to the extent deducted in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Consolidated Interest Charges, (ii) the provision for Federal, state, local and foreign income taxes payable, (iii) depreciation and amortization expense and amortization of intangibles (including goodwill), (iv) other non-recurring expenses reducing such Consolidated Net Income which do not represent a cash item in such period or any future period (in each case of or by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such Measurement Period), (v) non-cash expenses of any future restructuring charges under GAAP and (vi) non-recurring cash charges in connection with the Stock Option Accounting Restatement, , however, that the amount added back in this clause (vi) shall not exceed $75,000,000; and (b) the following to the extent included in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Federal, state, local and foreign income tax credits and (ii) all non-cash items increasing Consolidated Net Income (in each case of or by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such Measurement Period).
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
provided
minus
     "" means, as of any date of determination, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of all obligations, whether current or long-term, for borrowed money (including Obligations hereunder) and all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments, (b) all purchase money Indebtedness, (c) all direct obligations arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments, (d) all obligations in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business), (e) all Attributable Indebtedness, (f) without duplication, all Guarantees with respect to outstanding Indebtedness of the types specified in clauses (a) through (e) above of Persons other than the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and (g) all Indebtedness of the types referred to in clauses (a) through (f) above of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which the Borrower or a Subsidiary is a general partner or joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
Consolidated Funded Indebtedness
     "" means, for any Measurement Period, the sum of (a) all interest, premium payments, debt discount, fees, charges and related expenses in connection with borrowed money (including capitalized interest) or in connection with the deferred purchase price of assets, in each case to the extent treated as interest in accordance with GAAP, (b) all interest paid or payable with respect to discontinued operations, (c) the portion of rent expense under Capitalized Leases that is treated as interest in accordance with GAAP, in each case, of or by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis for the most recently completed Measurement Period and (d) non-principal payments under Synthetic Leases and under Synthetic Debt.
Consolidated Interest Charges
     "" means, as of any date of determination, the aggregate consolidated short-term and long-term Investments shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries determined in accordance with GAAP, but excluding any
Consolidated Investments
 
Investments that (a) are not owned by a Loan Party free and clear of Liens other than Liens in favor of the Administrative Agent or (b) are not (i) readily marketable debt or money market securities or (ii) Equity Interests readily marketable on a recognized securities exchange.
     "" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of such date to (b) the sum of Shareholders' Equity plus the Consolidated Funded Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as of the end of the most recently completed Measurement Period.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
     "" means, at any date of determination, the net income (or loss) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis for the most recently completed Measurement Period; that Consolidated Net Income shall exclude (a) extraordinary gains and extraordinary losses for such Measurement Period, (b) the net income of any Subsidiary during such Measurement Period to the extent that the declaration or payment of dividends or similar distributions by such Subsidiary of such income is not permitted by operation of the terms of its Organization Documents or any agreement (other than this Agreement), instrument or Law applicable to such Subsidiary during such Measurement Period, except that the Borrower's equity in any net loss of any such Subsidiary for such Measurement Period shall be included in determining Consolidated Net Income, and (c) any income (or loss) for such Period of any Person if such Person is not a Subsidiary, except that the Borrower's equity in the net income of any such Person for such Measurement Period shall be included in Consolidated Net Income up to the aggregate amount of cash actually distributed by such Person during such Period to the Borrower or a Subsidiary as a dividend or other distribution (and in the case of a dividend or other distribution to a Subsidiary, such Subsidiary is not precluded from further distributing such amount to the Borrower as described in clause (b) of this proviso).
Consolidated Net Income
provided
     "" means, as of any date of determination, cash or cash equivalents shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries determined in accordance with GAAP, but excluding any cash and cash equivalents that are not owned by a Loan Party free and clear of Liens other than Liens in favor of the Administrative Agent.
Consolidated Unrestricted Cash
     "" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
     "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
     "" means a Borrowing.
Credit Extension
     "" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the
Debtor Relief Laws
 
United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
     "" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
     "" means (a) an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Rate, if any, applicable to Base Rate Loans (iii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan 2% per annum and (b) when used with respect to other payments, a rate equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate 2% per annum.
Default Rate
plus
plus
provided
however
plus
plus
plus
     "" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
     "" or "" means the sale, transfer, license, lease or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of any property by any Person (or the granting of any option or other right to do any of the foregoing), including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith.
Disposition
Dispose
     "" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
     "" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
     "" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under , and (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
     "" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
     "" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into
Environmental Liability
 
the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
     "" means any permit, approval, identification number, license or other authorization required under any Environmental Law.
Environmental Permit
     "" means, with respect to any Person, all of the shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and all of the other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are outstanding on any date of determination.
Equity Interests
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
     "" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
     "" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is insolvent or in reorganization or in critical status; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
     "" has the meaning specified in the definition of Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Base Rate
     "" means for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula:
Eurodollar Rate
     Where,
 
     "" means, for such Interest Period, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurodollar Base Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by ABN AMRO and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by ABN AMRO's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Base Rate
BBA LIBOR
     "" means, for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under regulations issued from time to time by the FRB for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency liabilities"). The Eurodollar Rate for each outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
     "" means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
     "" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
 
     "" means that certain credit agreement dated as of June 16, 2006 among Lam Research International SARL, ABN AMRO Bank N.V., as administrative agent, and a syndicate of lenders.
Existing Credit Agreement
     "" means, at any time, (a) on or prior to the Closing Date, the aggregate amount of the Commitments at such time and (b) thereafter, the aggregate principal amount of the Loans of all Lenders outstanding at such time.
Facility
     "" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to ABN AMRO on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
     "" means the letter agreement, dated October 4, 2007 and as amended December 12, 2007, between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Fee Letter
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Foreign Government Scheme or Arrangement
Section 5.12(d)
     "" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Foreign Plan
Section 5.12(d)
     "" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
     "" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
     "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
     "" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority,
Governmental Authority
 
instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
     "" means, as to any Person, (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person (or any right, contingent or otherwise, of any holder of such Indebtedness to obtain any such Lien). The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith. The term "" as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
primary obligor
Guarantee
     "" means, collectively, each existing subsidiary of the Borrower listed on and each subsequently acquired or organized Domestic Subsidiary of the Borrower that shall be required to execute and deliver a guaranty or guaranty supplement pursuant to .
Guarantors
Schedule 6.12
Section 6.12
     "" means, collectively, the Guaranty made by the Guarantors in favor of the Secured Parties, substantially in the form of , together with each other guaranty and guaranty supplement delivered pursuant to .
Guaranty
Exhibit E
Section 6.12
     "" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
     "" means, as to any Person at a particular time, without duplication, all of the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
     (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money and all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments;
 
     (b) the maximum amount of all direct or contingent obligations of such Person arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments;
     (c) net obligations of such Person under any Swap Contract;
     (d) all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business and not past due for more than 90 days after the date on which such trade account was created);
     (e) indebtedness (excluding prepaid interest thereon) secured by a Lien on property owned or being purchased by such Person (including indebtedness arising under conditional sales or other title retention agreements), whether or not such indebtedness shall have been assumed by such Person or is limited in recourse;
     (f) all Attributable Indebtedness in respect of Capitalized Leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations of such Person and all Synthetic Debt of such Person;
     (g) all obligations of such Person to purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise make any payment in respect of any Equity Interest in such Person or any other Person or any warrant, right or option to acquire such Equity Interest, valued, in the case of a redeemable preferred interest, at the greater of its voluntary or involuntary liquidation preference accrued and unpaid dividends; and
plus
     (h) all Guarantees of such Person in respect of any of the foregoing.
     For all purposes hereof, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to such Person. The amount of any net obligation under any Swap Contract on any date shall be deemed to be the Swap Termination Value thereof as of such date.
     "" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitee
Section 10.04(b)
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 10.07
     "" means, (a) as to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date of the Facility under which such Loan was made; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan, the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date of the Facility under which such Loan was made.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
 
     "" means, as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Committed Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
provided
     (a) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
     (b) any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
     (c) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date of the Facility under which such Loan was made.
     "" means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect acquisition or investment by such Person, whether by means of (a) the purchase or other acquisition of Equity Interests of another Person, (b) a loan, advance or capital contribution to, Guarantee or assumption of debt of, or purchase or other acquisition of any other debt or interest in, another Person, or (c) the purchase or other acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of assets of another Person that constitute a business unit or all or a substantial part of the business of, such Person. For purposes of covenant compliance, the amount of any Investment shall be the amount actually invested, without adjustment for subsequent increases or decreases in the value of such Investment.
Investment
     "" has the meaning specified in .
IP Rights
Section 5.17
     "" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
     "" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
     "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Lender
     "" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
     "" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or preference, priority or other security interest or
Lien
 
preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
     "" means an extension of credit by a Lender to the Borrower under .
Loan
Article II
     "" means, collectively, (a) this Agreement, (b) the Notes, (c) the Guaranty, (d) the Collateral Documents and (e) the Fee Letter.
Loan Documents
     "" means, collectively, the Borrower and each Guarantor.
Loan Parties
     "" means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties, liabilities (actual or contingent), condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of the Borrower or the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent or any Lender under any Loan Document, or of the ability of any Loan Party to perform its obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a party; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against any Loan Party of any Loan Document to which it is a party.
Material Adverse Effect
     "" means, with respect to any Person, each contract to which such Person is a party involving aggregate consideration payable to or by such Person of $35,000,000 or more in any year or otherwise material to the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance, properties or prospects of such Person.
Material Contract
     "" means the second anniversary of the Closing Date; , , that, if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next Business Day.
Maturity Date
provided
however
     "" means, at any date of determination, the most recently completed four fiscal quarters of the Borrower.
Measurement Period
     "" means, without duplication, the Consolidated Unrestricted Cash plus Consolidated Investments.
Minimum Liquidity
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
     "" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
     "" means with respect to the incurrence or issuance of any Indebtedness by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, the excess of (i) the sum of the cash and Cash Equivalents received in connection with such transaction over (ii) the underwriting discounts and commissions, and other reasonable and customary out-of-pocket expenses, incurred by the Borrower or such Subsidiary in connection therewith.
Net Cash Proceeds
 
     "" means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit B
     "" means the National Priorities List under CERCLA.
NPL
     "" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
     "" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
     "" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
     "" means, on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Loans, occurring on such date.
Outstanding Amount
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
     "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
     "" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
     "" means those Synthetic Lease Obligations incurred or intended to be incurred in connection with the Borrower's premises located in Fremont and Livermore, California, in an aggregate amount of up to $165,000,000.
Permitted Synthetic Lease Obligations
 
     "" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
     "" means any "employee benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) established by the Borrower or, with respect to any such plan that is subject to Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 or Title IV of ERISA, any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Pledge Agreement
Section 4.01(a)(iii)
     "" means a supplement to the Pledge Agreement that adds assets to the Collateral covered by the Pledge Agreement.
Pledge Agreement Supplement
     "" has the meaning specified on Exhibit A to the Pledge Agreement.
Pledged Debt
     "" means the "Equity Securities" pledged under the Pledge Agreement.
Pledged Equity
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Public Lender
Section 6.02
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
     "" means the Acquisition Agreement.
Related Documents
     "" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
     "" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
     "" means with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Loans, a Committed Loan Notice.
Request for Credit Extension
     "" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders holding more than 50% of the Commitments or, if no Commitments are outstanding on such date, the Outstanding Amount on such date; that the portion of the Outstanding Amount held, or deemed held, by any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
provided
     "" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of a Loan Party. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
 
     "" means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any capital stock or other Equity Interest of any Person or any of its Subsidiaries, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, defeasance, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other Equity Interest, or on account of any return of capital to any Person's stockholders, partners or members (or the equivalent of any thereof), or any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such dividend or other distribution or payment.
Restricted Payment
     "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and any successor thereto.
S&P
     "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
     "" means any and all of the Obligations and the SWAP Obligations.
Secured Obligations
     "" means, collectively, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, each co-agent or sub-agent appointed by the Administrative Agent from time to time pursuant to , and the other Persons the Secured Obligations owing to which are or are purported to be secured by the Collateral under the terms of the Collateral Documents.
Secured Parties
Section 9.05
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Security Agreement
Section 4.01(a)(iii)
     "" means a supplement to the Security Agreement that adds assets to the Collateral covered by the Security Agreement.
Security Agreement Supplement
     "" means any Indebtedness that is not Subordinated Indebtedness and that is secured by any assets of any Loan Party.
Senior Secured Indebtedness
     "" means, as of any date of determination, consolidated shareholders' equity of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of that date determined in accordance with GAAP.
Shareholders' Equity
     "" and "" mean, with respect to any Person on any date of determination, that on such date (a) the fair value of the property of such Person is greater than the total amount of liabilities, including contingent liabilities, of such Person, (b) the present fair salable value of the assets of such Person is not less than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of such Person on its debts as they become absolute and matured, (c) such Person does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur debts or liabilities beyond such Person's ability to pay such debts and liabilities as they mature, (d) such Person is not engaged in business or a transaction, and is not about to engage in business or a transaction, for which such Person's property would constitute an unreasonably small capital, and (e) such Person is able to pay its debts and liabilities, contingent obligations and other commitments as they mature in the ordinary course of business. The amount of contingent liabilities at any time shall be computed as the amount that, in the light of all the facts and circumstances existing at such time, represents the amount that can reasonably be expected to become an actual or matured liability.
Solvent
Solvency
 
     "" means the pending restatement of the Borrower's financial statements to reflect adjustments in the accounting for grant, issuance and exercise of stock options issued by the Borrower.
Stock Option Accounting Restatement
     "" means all Indebtedness of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is (a) subordinated to the Obligations hereunder containing terms acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, including terms of subordination, interest rates, financial covenants and maturity dates and (b) subject to intercreditor agreements acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders.
Subordinated Indebtedness
     "" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "" or to "" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
Subsidiary
Subsidiaries
     "" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
Master Agreement
     "" means the obligations of any of the Loan Parties to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their Affiliates under or with respect to any SWAP Contract relating to Borrower's Obligations under any Loan Document, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
SWAP Obligations
     "" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and
Swap Termination Value
 
termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
     "" means, with respect to any Person as of any date of determination thereof, all obligations of such Person in respect of transactions entered into by such Person that are intended to function primarily as a borrowing of funds (including any minority interest transactions that function primarily as a borrowing) but are not otherwise included in the definition of "" or as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet of such Person and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP but which, upon the application of any Debtor Relief Laws to such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Synthetic Debt
Indebtedness
     "" means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property (including sale and leaseback transactions), in each case, creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the application of any Debtor Relief Laws to such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Synthetic Lease Obligation
     "" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
     "" means $35,000,000.
Threshold Amount
     "" means, with respect to a Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan.
Type
     "" means the Uniform Commercial Code as the same may, from time to time, be enacted and in effect in the State of California; , that to the extent that the Uniform Commercial Code is used to define any term relating to Collateral herein or in any Loan Document and such term is defined differently in different Articles or Divisions of the Uniform Commercial Code, the definition of such term contained in Article or Division 9 shall govern; , that in the event that, by reason of mandatory provisions of law, any or all of the attachment, perfection or priority of, or remedies with respect to, Lender's Lien on any Collateral is governed by the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted and in effect in a jurisdiction other than the State of California, the term "" shall mean the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted and in effect in such other jurisdiction solely for purposes of the provisions thereof relating to such attachment, perfection, priority or remedies and for purposes of definitions related to such provisions.
UCC
provided
provided further
UCC
     "" means the excess of a Pension Plan's benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plan's assets,
Unfunded Pension Liability
 
determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
     "" shall mean any losses, damages, costs, expenses and/or, liabilities (including any losses, damages, costs, expenses or liabilities resulting from property damage or casualty, general liability, workers' compensation claims and business interruption) incurred by the Borrower or any Subsidiary which are not covered by insurance, but with respect to which insurance coverage is commercially available in the ordinary course of business to Persons engaged in the same or similar business as the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Uninsured Liabilities
     "" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
     "" means any Loan Party that is organized under the laws of one of the states of the United States of America and that is not a CFC.
U.S. Loan Party
     . With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
1.02. Other Interpretive Provisions
     (a) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "," "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "." The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "." Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "," "" and "," and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Preliminary Statements, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Preliminary Statements, Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
include
includes
including
without limitation
will
shall
herein
hereof
hereunder
asset
property
     (b) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ";" the words "" and "" each mean ";" and the word "" means "."
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
 
     (c) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
     . (a) . All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, in Sections 4.01(a)(xi), 4.01(a)(xv), 4.01(a)(xvi), 4.01(e), 5.05(e), 5.05(g) or as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
1.03. Accounting Terms
Generally
except
     (b) . If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); that, until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided
     . Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.04. Rounding
     . Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Pacific time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.05. Times of Day
     . Any amount specified in this Agreement (other than in , and ) or any of the other Loan Documents to be in Dollars shall also include the equivalent of such amount in any currency other than Dollars, such equivalent amount thereof in the applicable currency to be determined by the Administrative Agent at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (as defined below) for the purchase of such currency with Dollars. For purposes of this , the "" for a currency means the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate quoted by the Person acting in such capacity as the spot rate for the purchase by such Person of such currency with another currency through its principal foreign exchange trading office at approximately 9:00 a.m. on the date two Business Days prior to the date of such determination; that the Administrative Agent may obtain such spot rate from another financial institution designated by the Administrative Agent if the Person acting in such capacity does not have as of the date of determination a spot buying rate for any such currency.
1.06. Currency Equivalents Generally
Articles II
IX
X
Section 1.06
Spot Rate
provided
 
     . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make a single loan to the Borrower on the Closing Date in an amount not to exceed such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Facility. The Borrowing shall consist of Loans made simultaneously by the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentage of the Facility. Amounts borrowed under this and repaid or prepaid may not be reborrowed. Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as further provided herein. The Aggregate Commitments shall be automatically and permanently reduced to zero (i) upon the initial Credit Extension and (ii), if no Credit Extension is made by March 31, 2008, then on such date.
2.01. The Loans
Section 2.01
     . (a) Each Borrowing and each conversion to and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 9:00 a.m. (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Loans, and (ii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof or the outstanding Loan balance. Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Borrowing, a conversion to or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Loan in a Committed Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans. If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any such Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
2.02. Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Loans
Section 2.02(a)
     (b) Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage under the applicable Facility of the applicable Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans described in . In the case of a Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Loan available to the Administrative Agent
Section 2.02(a)
 
in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 11:00 a.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in and , the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of ABN AMRO with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower.
Section 4.01
Section 4.02
     (c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
     (d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in ABN AMRO's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
     (e) After giving effect to all Borrowings, all conversions to and all continuations of Loans, there shall not be more than ten (10) Interest Periods in effect in respect of the Facility.
     (f) Anything in this to the contrary notwithstanding, the Borrower may not select the Eurodollar Rate for the initial Credit Extension unless either (i) this Agreement has been in effect for at least three Business Days before the date chosen for the initial Credit Extension or (ii) the Borrower has entered into an indemnity agreement satisfactory to the Administrative Agent covering the matters in Article III.
Section 2.02
     . (a) . (i) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (A) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 9:00 a.m. (1) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (2) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Loans; (B) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (C) any prepayment of Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurodollar Rate Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's ratable portion of such prepayment (based on such Lender's Applicable Percentage). If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each prepayment of the outstanding Loans pursuant to this shall
2.03. Prepayments
Optional
provided
Section 3.05
Section 2.03(a)
 
be applied to the principal repayment installments thereof in inverse order of maturity, and each such prepayment shall be paid to the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages in respect of each of the relevant Facilities.
     (b) . Upon the incurrence or issuance by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of any Senior Secured Indebtedness (other than Senior Secured Indebtedness expressly permitted to be incurred or issued pursuant to ), the Borrower shall prepay an aggregate principal amount of Loans equal to 100% of all Net Cash Proceeds received therefrom immediately upon receipt thereof by the Borrower or such Subsidiary. Each prepayment of Loans pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this shall be applied ratably to the principal repayment installments thereof in inverse order of maturity.
Mandatory
Section 7.02
Section 2.03(b)
     . The Borrower shall repay to the Lenders the aggregate principal amount of all Loans outstanding on the following dates in the respective amounts set forth opposite such dates (which amounts shall be reduced as a result of the application of prepayments in accordance with the order of priority set forth in ):
2.04. Repayment of Loans
Section 2.03
, , that the final principal repayment installment of the Loans shall be repaid on the Maturity Date for the Facility and in any event shall be in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of all Loans outstanding on such date.
provided
however
     . (a) Subject to the provisions of , (i) each Eurodollar Rate Loan under a Facility shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate for such Facility, and (ii) each Base Rate Loan under a Facility shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate for such Facility.
2.05. Interest
Section 2.05(b)
plus
plus
     (b) (i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (ii) If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (iii) Upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding
 
Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (iv) Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
     (c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
     . (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Arranger and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letter. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
2.06. Fees
     (b) The Borrower shall pay to the Lenders such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
     (c) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent a commitment fee for the pro rata benefit of the Lenders, which fee shall accrue at the rate of 0.20% per annum (based upon a 360-day year) from December 10, 2007 until the Commitment Fee Due Date. The commitment fee shall be nonrefundable and shall be due and payable on the Commitment Fee Due Date.
     All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by ABN AMRO's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
2.07. Computation of Interest and Fees.
provided
Section 2.09(a)
     . The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest
2.08. Evidence of Debt
 
error. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
     . (a) . All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 12:00 noon on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage in respect of the relevant Facility (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 12:00 noon shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected on computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
2.09. Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback
General
     (b) (i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the Closing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
 
     (ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the time at which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
     A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
     (c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
     (d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
     (e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
     (f) . If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) , toward payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) , toward payment of principal then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties.
Insufficient Funds
first
second
     . If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of (a) Obligations in respect of
2.10. Sharing of Payments by Lenders
 
any the Facilities due and payable to such Lender hereunder and under the other Loan Documents at such time in excess of its ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Obligations due and payable to such Lender at such time to (ii) the aggregate amount of the Obligations in respect of the Facilities due and payable to all Lenders hereunder and under the other Loan Documents at such time) of payments on account of the Obligations in respect of the Facilities due and payable to all Lenders hereunder and under the other Loan Documents at such time obtained by all the Lenders at such time or (b) Obligations in respect of any of the Facilities owing (but not due and payable) to such Lender hereunder and under the other Loan Documents at such time in excess of its ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Obligations owing (but not due and payable) to such Lender at such time to (ii) the aggregate amount of the Obligations in respect of the Facilities owing (but not due and payable) to all Lenders hereunder and under the other Loan Parties at such time) of payment on account of the Obligations in respect of the Facilities owing (but not due and payable) to all Lenders hereunder and under the other Loan Documents at such time obtained by all of the Lenders at such time then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of Obligations in respect of the Facilities then due and payable to the Lenders or owing (but not due and payable) to the Lenders, as the case may be, that:
provided
     (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
     (ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (A) any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (B) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
     The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
     . (a) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, that if the Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions
3.01. Taxes
Payments Free of Taxes
provided
 
applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, any Lender receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
     (b) . Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
     (c) . The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Indemnification by the Borrower
     (d) . As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
     (e) . Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements.
Status of Lenders
     Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if the Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
 
     (i) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
     (ii) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
     (iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (A) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (1) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (2) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (3) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (B) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
     (iv) any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
     (f) . If the Administrative Agent or any Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent, such Lender, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower ( any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender if the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
provided
plus
     . If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of
3.02. Illegality
 
the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
     . If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
3.03. Inability to Determine Rates
     . (a) . If any Change in Law shall:
3.04. Increased Costs; Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Loan
Increased Costs Generally
     (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurodollar Rate);
     (ii) subject any Lender to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender); or
Section 3.01
     (iii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender, the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
 
     (b) . If any Lender determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
     (c) . A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Borrower shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Such certificate shall set forth the nature of the occurrence giving rise to such demand, the additional amount to be paid, and the method by which such amount was determined. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
     (d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation, that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than nine months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the nine-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
     . Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
3.05. Compensation for Losses
     (a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
     (b) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
     (c) any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to ;
Section 10.13
including an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest that would have accrued on the amount so prepaid, or not so borrowed, converted or continued, for the period from
 
the date of such prepayment or of such failure to borrow, convert or continue to the last day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, the Interest Period that would have commenced on the date of such failure) in each case at the applicable rate of interest for such Loans provided for herein (excluding, however, the Applicable Margin included therein, if any) r (ii) the amount of interest (as reasonably determined by such Lender) that would have accrued to such Lender on such amount by placing such amount on deposit for a comparable period with leading banks in the interbank eurodollar market.  A certificate as to any amounts payable pursuant to this Section submitted to the Borrower by any Lender shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error.   The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing. This covenant shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
ove
     For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Base Rate used in determining the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
     . (a) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
3.06. Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
     (b) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
     . All of the Borrower's obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
3.07. Survival
Article III
     . The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
4.01. Conditions of Initial Credit Extension
 
     (a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the signing Loan Party, each dated as of a date on or after the date of this Agreement but on or before the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date or, in all cases, unless specified otherwise below) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
     (i) executed counterparts of this Agreement and the Guaranty, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrower;
     (ii) a Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note;
     (iii) a Pledge Agreement and a Security Agreement, in substantially the form of and respectively (together with each other pledge agreement and security agreement and pledge agreement supplement and security agreement supplement delivered pursuant to , in each case as amended, the "" and ""), duly executed by each Loan Party, together with:
Exhibit F
Exhibit G
Section 6.12
Pledge Agreement
Security Agreement
     (A) certificates representing the Pledged Equity referred to therein accompanied by undated stock powers executed in blank and instruments evidencing the Pledged Debt indorsed in blank,
     (B) acknowledgment copies or stamped receipt copies of proper financing statements, duly filed on or before the day of the initial Credit Extension under the Uniform Commercial Code of all jurisdictions that the Administrative Agent may deem necessary or desirable in order to perfect the Liens created under the Security Agreement, covering the Collateral described in the Security Agreement,
     (C) completed requests for information, dated on or before the date of the initial Credit Extension, listing the financing statements referred to in clause (B) above and all other effective financing statements filed in the jurisdictions referred to in clause (B) above that name any Loan Party as debtor, together with copies of such other financing statements,
     (D) evidence of the completion of all other actions, recordings and filings of or with respect to the Security Agreement that the Administrative Agent may deem necessary or desirable in order to perfect the Liens created thereby, and
     (E) evidence that all other action that the Administrative Agent may deem necessary or desirable in order to perfect the Liens created under the Security Agreement has been taken (including receipt of duly executed payoff letters, UCC-3 termination statements and landlord's and bailees' waiver and consent agreements);
 
     (iv) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of each Loan Party as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party or is to be a party;
     (v) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that each Loan Party is duly organized or formed, and that each of the Borrower and the Guarantors is validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in California, Ohio and any other jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
     (vi) a favorable opinion of Heller Ehrman LLP, counsel to the Loan Parties, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, as to matters concerning the Loan Parties and the Loan Documents as the Required Lenders may reasonably request;
     (vii) a favorable opinion of in-house counsel to the Loan Parties, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, as to the matters concerning the Loan Parties and the Loan Documents as the Required Lenders may reasonably request;
     (viii) a favorable analysis of Lenz & Staehelin, local counsel to the Administrative Agent in Switzerland, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, as to such matters concerning Lam Research International SARL as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request;
     (ix) a certificate of a Responsible Officer of each Loan Party either (A) attaching copies of all consents, licenses and approvals required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by such Loan Party and the validity against such Loan Party of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect, or (B) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so required;
     (x) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower and dated as of the Closing Date certifying that (A) that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied, and (B) subject to the Stock Option Accounting Restatement, there has been no event or circumstance since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; and (C) subject to the Stock Option Accounting Restatement, a calculation of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Borrower most recently ended prior to the Closing Date;
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
     (xi) a business plan and budget of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, including forecasts prepared by management of the Borrower, of
 
consolidated balance sheets and statements of income or operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the first year following the Closing Date;
     (xii) certificates attesting to the Solvency of each Loan Party before and after giving effect to the Acquisition, from the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Borrower;
     (xiii) an environmental assessment report dated as of a date on or after January 1, 2006 within the from an environmental consulting firm acceptable to the Lenders, which report shall identify existing and potential environmental concerns and shall quantify related costs and liabilities, associated with any manufacturing facilities of any Loan Party, and the Lenders shall be satisfied with the nature and amount of any such matters and with the Borrower's plans with respect thereto;
     (xiv) evidence that all insurance required to be maintained pursuant to the Loan Documents has been obtained and is in effect, together with the certificates of insurance, naming the Administrative Agent, on behalf of the Lenders, as an additional insured or loss payee, as the case may be, under all insurance policies maintained with respect to the assets and properties of the Loan Parties that constitutes Collateral;
     (xv) a duly completed pro forma Compliance Certificate as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended September 23, 2007, signed by chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower, showing the combined financial results of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including SEZ Holding AG) on a pro forma basis as if the Acquisition had occurred on or before September 23, 2007;
     (xvi) a duly completed pro forma Compliance Certificate as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended December 23, 2007, signed by chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower, showing the combined financial results of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (but not including SEZ Holding AG);
     (xvii) evidence that the Existing Credit Agreement has been, or concurrently with the Closing Date is being, terminated and all Liens securing obligations under the Existing Credit Agreement have been, or concurrently with the Closing Date are being, released; and
     (xviii) such other assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent or any Lender reasonably may require.
     (b) (i) All fees required to be paid to the Administrative Agent and the Arranger on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid and (ii) all fees required to be paid to the Lenders on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
     (c) Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall have paid all fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent (directly to such counsel if requested by the Administrative Agent) to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date,
 
plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings ( that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
provided
     (d) The Closing Date shall have occurred on or before March 31, 2008.
     (e) The Lenders shall have completed a due diligence investigation of the Borrower, SEZ Holding AG and their respective Subsidiaries in scope, and with results, satisfactory to the Lenders, and shall have been given such access to the management, records, books of account, contracts and properties of the Borrower, SEZ Holding AG and their respective Subsidiaries and shall have received such financial, business and other information regarding each of the foregoing Persons and businesses as they shall have requested; all of the information made available to the Administrative Agent prior to February 11, 2008 shall be complete and correct in all material respects; and no changes or developments shall have occurred, and no new or additional information shall have been received or discovered by the Administrative Agent or the Lenders regarding the Borrower, SEZ Holding AG and their respective Subsidiaries or the Acquisition after February 11, 2008 that (A) either individually or in the aggregate could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or (B) purports to adversely affect the Facilities or any other aspect of the Acquisition, and nothing shall have come to the attention of the Lenders during the course of such due diligence investigation to lead them to believe (i) that, following the consummation of the Acquisition, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries would not have good and marketable title to all material assets of SEZ Holding AG or (ii) that the Acquisition will have a Material Adverse Effect.
     Without limiting the generality of the provisions of the last paragraph of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.03
Section 4.01
     . The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension is also subject to the following conditions precedent:
4.02. Additional Conditions to Initial Credit Extensions
     (a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower and each other Loan Party contained in or any other Loan Document, or which are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, both before after giving effect to the Acquisition. except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in and shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to and , respectively.
Article V
Section 4.02
Sections 5.05(a)
(b)
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
 
     (b) No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or from the application of the proceeds thereof.
     (c) The Administrative Agent shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
     The Request for the initial Credit Extension submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
     The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
     . Each Loan Party and each of its Subsidiaries (a) is duly organized or formed, validly existing and, as applicable, in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority and all requisite governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to (i) own or lease its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents and Related Documents to which it is a party and consummate the Acquisition, and (c) is duly qualified and is licensed and, as applicable, in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license; except in each case referred to in clause (b)(i) or (c), to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.01. Existence, Qualification and Power
     . The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of each Loan Document and Related Document to which such Person is or is to be a party have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (a) contravene the terms of any of such Person's Organization Documents; (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, or (except as provided herein) require any payment to be made under (i) any Contractual Obligation to which such Person is a party or affecting such Person or the properties of such Person or any of its Subsidiaries or (ii) any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which such Person or its property is subject; or (c) violate any Law.
5.02. Authorization; No Contravention
     . No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required in connection with (a) the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, any Loan Party of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (b) the grant by any Loan Party of the Liens granted by it pursuant to the Collateral Documents, (c) the perfection or maintenance of the Liens created under the Collateral Documents (including the first priority nature thereof) or (d) the exercise by the Administrative Agent or any Lender of its rights under the Loan Documents or the remedies in respect of the Collateral pursuant to the Collateral Documents. All applicable waiting periods in connection
5.03. Governmental Authorization; Other Consents
 
with the Acquisition have expired without any action having been taken by any Governmental Authority restraining, preventing or imposing materially adverse conditions upon the Acquisition or the rights of the Loan Parties or their Subsidiaries freely to transfer or otherwise dispose of, or to create any Lien on, any properties now owned or hereafter acquired by any of them. The Acquisition has been consummated in accordance with the Acquisition Agreement and applicable Law.
     . This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document, when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party that is party thereto. This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party, enforceable against each Loan Party that is party thereto in accordance with its terms.
5.04. Binding Effect
     . (a) The Audited Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
5.05. Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect
     (b) The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries dated June 24, 2007 and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal year ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, and (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the Stock Option Accounting Restatement. sets forth all material Indebtedness and certain information regarding other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date of such financial statements.
Schedule 5.05
     (c) The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries dated September 23, 2007 and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, and (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments and to the Stock Option Accounting Restatement. sets forth all material Indebtedness and certain information regarding other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date of such financial statements.
Schedule 5.05
 
     (d) Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     (e) The consolidated and consolidating pro forma balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and SEZ Holding AG as at September 23, 2007, and the related consolidated and consolidating pro forma statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and such Persons, subject to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments, for the three months then ended, certified by the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Borrower, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present the consolidated and consolidating pro forma financial condition of the Borrower and such Persons as at such date and the consolidated and consolidating pro forma results of operations of the Borrower and such Persons for the period ended on such date, in each case giving effect to the Acquisition. For purposes of this Section 5.05(e) "consolidating" shall mean only showing separately (i) information for SEZ Holding AG and (ii) information for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (not including SEZ Holding AG). Such financial statements are not materially inconsistent with the unaudited financial statements provided to the Administrative Agent prior to December 12, 2007.
     (f) The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries dated December 23, 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, and (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments and to the Stock Option Accounting Restatement. sets forth all material Indebtedness and certain information regarding other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date of such financial statements.
Schedule 5.05
     (g) The consolidated forecasted balance sheets, statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to were prepared in good faith on the basis of the assumptions stated therein, which assumptions were fair in light of the conditions existing at the time of delivery of such forecasts, and represented, at the time of delivery, the Borrower's best estimate of its future financial condition and performance.
Section 4.01
     (h) The Stock Option Accounting Restatement will not result in any material cash charges (not to exceed $20,000,000) for compensation expense on the Borrower's financial statements.
     (i) For the avoidance of doubt, all representations and warranties in this Agreement and in documents delivered to the Lenders with respect to the Borrower's financial statements made before the issuance of the Stock Option Accounting Restatement are subject to the Stock Option Accounting Restatement
     . There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower after due and diligent investigation, threatened or contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or
5.06. Litigation
 
against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that (a) purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement, any other Loan Document, any Related Document or the consummation of the Acquisition, or (b), either individually or in the aggregate, if determined adversely, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and there has been no material adverse change in the status, or financial effect on any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof, of the matters described in .
Section 5.06
     . Neither any Loan Party nor any Subsidiary thereof is in default under or with respect to, or a party to, any Contractual Obligation that could, either individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
5.07. No Default
     . (a) Each Loan Party and each of its Subsidiaries has good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of its business, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.08. Ownership of Property; Liens; Investments
     (b)  sets forth a complete and accurate list of all Liens (excluding Liens permitted by Sections 7.01(c) through 7.01(g)) on the property or assets of each Loan Party and each of its Subsidiaries, showing as of the date hereof the lienholder thereof, the principal amount of the obligations secured thereby and the property or assets of such Loan Party or such Subsidiary subject thereto. The property of each Loan Party and each of its Subsidiaries is subject to no Liens, other than Liens set forth on , and as otherwise permitted by .
Schedule 5.08(b)
Schedule 5.08(b)
Section 7.01
     (c)  sets forth a complete and accurate list of all real property owned by each Loan Party and each of its Subsidiaries, showing as of the date hereof the street address, county or other relevant jurisdiction, state, record owner and book and estimated fair value thereof. Each Loan Party and each of its Subsidiaries has good, marketable and insurable fee simple title to the real property owned by such Loan Party or such Subsidiary, free and clear of all Liens, other than Liens created or permitted by the Loan Documents.
Schedule 5.08(c)
     (d) (i)  sets forth a complete and accurate list of all leases (excluding non-material sales and service offices) of real property under which any Loan Party or any Subsidiary of a Loan Party is the lessee, showing as of the date hereof the street address, county or other relevant jurisdiction, state, lessor and lessee thereunder. Each such lease is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the lessor thereof, enforceable in accordance with its terms.
Schedule 5.08(d)(i)
     (ii) sets forth a complete and accurate list of all leases (excluding non-material sales and service offices) of real property under which any Loan Party or any Subsidiary of a Loan Party is the lessor, showing as of the date hereof the street address, county or other relevant jurisdiction, state, lessor and lessee thereunder. Each such lease is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the lessee thereof, enforceable in accordance with its terms.
Schedule 5.08(d)(ii)
 
     (e)  sets forth a complete and accurate list of all Investments (other than Consolidated Investments, readily marketable securities securing the Permitted Synthetic Lease Obligations and collateral securing the Existing Credit Agreement) in an individual amount equal or greater than $5,000,000 or in an aggregate amount for similar Investments equal or greater than $10,000,000 held by any Loan Party or any Subsidiary of a Loan Party on the date hereof, showing as of the date hereof the amount, obligor or issuer and maturity, if any, thereof.
Schedule 5.08(e)
     . (a) The Loan Parties and their respective Subsidiaries conduct in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws and claims alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law on their respective businesses, operations and properties, and as a result thereof the Borrower has reasonably concluded that to the best of its knowledge such Environmental Laws and claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.09. Environmental Compliance
     (b) None of the properties currently or formerly owned or operated by any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries is listed or proposed for listing on the NPL or on the CERCLIS or any analogous foreign, state or local list or is adjacent to any such property; there are no and never have been any underground or above-ground storage tanks or any surface impoundments, septic tanks, pits, sumps or lagoons in which Hazardous Materials are being or have been treated, stored or disposed on any property currently owned or operated by any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries or, to the best of the knowledge of the Loan Parties, on any property formerly owned or operated by any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries that could, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; there is no asbestos or asbestos-containing material on any property currently owned or operated by any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and Hazardous Materials have not been released, discharged or disposed of on any property currently or formerly owned or operated by any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries.
     (c) Neither any Loan Party nor any of its Subsidiaries is undertaking, and has not completed, either individually or together with other potentially responsible parties, any remedial or response action relating to any actual or threatened release, discharge or disposal of Hazardous Materials at any site, location or operation, either voluntarily or pursuant to the order of any Governmental Authority or the requirements of any Environmental Law; and all Hazardous Materials generated, used, treated, handled or stored at, or transported to or from, any property currently or formerly owned or operated by any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries have been disposed of in a manner not reasonably expected to result in material liability to any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries.
     . The properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are insured with companies having an A.M. Best Rating of at least A- not Affiliates of the Borrower, in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are necessary to ensure that Uninsured Liabilities (other than earthquakes or other earth movements) of the Borrower and/or any Subsidiary are not reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
5.10. Insurance
 
     . The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have filed all Federal, state and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all Federal, state and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP. There is no proposed tax assessment against the Borrower or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither any Loan Party nor any Subsidiary thereof is party to any tax sharing agreement. The Acquisition will not be taxable to the Borrower, SEZ Holding AG or any of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
5.11. Taxes
     . (a) Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state Laws. Each Plan that is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the IRS with respect thereto and, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, nothing has occurred which would prevent, or cause the loss of, such qualification. The Borrower and each ERISA Affiliate have made all required contributions to each Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, and no application for a waiver of contributions required by or an extension of any amortization period for purposes of determining the contributions required by Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan.
5.12. ERISA Compliance
     (b) There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
     (c) (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur; (ii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability; (iii) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (iv) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such liability) under Section 4201 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan; and (v) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Section 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
     (d) With respect to each scheme or arrangement mandated by a government other than the United States (a "") and with respect to each employee benefit plan maintained or contributed to by any Loan Party or any Subsidiary of any Loan Party that is not subject to United States law (a ""):
Foreign Government Scheme or Arrangement
Foreign Plan
     (i) any employer and employee contributions required by law or by the terms of any Foreign Government Scheme or Arrangement or any Foreign Plan have been made, or, if applicable, accrued, in accordance with normal accounting practices;
 
     (ii) the fair market value of the assets of each funded Foreign Plan, the liability of each insurer for any Foreign Plan funded through insurance or the book reserve established for any Foreign Plan, together with any accrued contributions, is sufficient to procure or provide for the accrued benefit obligations, as of the date hereof, with respect to all current and former participants in such Foreign Plan according to the actuarial assumptions and valuations most recently used to account for such obligations in accordance with applicable generally accepted accounting principles; and
     (iii) each Foreign Plan required to be registered has been registered and has been maintained in good standing with applicable regulatory authorities.
     . The Borrower has no Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in Part (a) of , and all of the outstanding Equity Interests in such Subsidiaries have been validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by a Loan Party in the amounts specified on Part (a) of free and clear of all Liens except those created under the Collateral Documents. Set forth on Part (c) of is a complete and accurate list of all Loan Parties, showing as of the Closing Date (as to each Loan Party) the jurisdiction of its incorporation, the address of its principal place of business and its U.S. taxpayer identification number. The copy of the charter of each Loan Party and each amendment thereto provided pursuant to is a true and correct copy of each such document, each of which is valid and in full force and effect.
5.13. Subsidiaries; Equity Interests; Loan Parties
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
Section 4.01(a)(v)
     . (a) The Borrower is not engaged and will not engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock. Following the application of the proceeds of the initial Credit Extension, not more than 25% of the value of the assets (either of the Borrower only or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis) subject to the provisions of or or subject to any restriction contained in any agreement or instrument between the Borrower and any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender relating to Indebtedness and within the scope of will be margin stock.
5.14. Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act
Section 7.01
Section 7.05
Section 8.01(e)
     (b) None of the Borrower, any Person Controlling the Borrower, or any Subsidiary is or is required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
     . The Borrower has disclosed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished (whether in writing or orally) by or on behalf of any Loan Party to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder or under any other Loan Document (in each case as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any
5.15. Disclosure
 
material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, (i) the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time and (ii) such information is subject to the Stock Option Accounting Restatement.
provided
     . Each Loan Party and each Subsidiary thereof is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.16. Compliance with Laws
     The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries own, or possess the right to use, all of the trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patents, patent rights, franchises, licenses and other intellectual property rights (collectively, "") that are reasonably necessary for the operation of their respective businesses, without conflict with the rights of any other Person. To the best knowledge of the Borrower, no slogan or other advertising device, product, process, method, substance, part or other material now employed, or now contemplated to be employed, by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries infringes upon any rights held by any other Person. No claim or litigation regarding any of the foregoing is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened, which, either individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.17. Intellectual Property; Licenses, Etc.
IP Rights
     . Each Loan Party is, individually and together with its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, Solvent.
5.18. Solvency
     . Neither the businesses nor the properties of any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries are affected by any fire, explosion, accident, strike, lockout or other labor dispute, drought, storm, hail, earthquake, embargo, act of God or of the public enemy or other casualty (whether or not covered by insurance) that, either individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.19. Casualty, Etc
     There are no collective bargaining agreements or Multiemployer Plans covering the employees of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as of the Closing Date and neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary has suffered any strikes, walkouts, work stoppages or other material labor difficulty within the last five years.
5.20. Labor Matters.
     . The provisions of the Collateral Documents are effective to create in favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties a legal, valid and enforceable first priority Lien (subject to Liens permitted by ) on all right, title and interest of the respective Loan Parties in the Collateral described therein. Except for filings completed prior to the Closing Date and as contemplated hereby and by the Collateral Documents, no filing or other action will be necessary to perfect or protect such Liens.
5.21. Collateral Documents
Section 7.01
 
     Any outstanding sales of inventory by the Loan Parties to Subsidiaries of the Borrower that are not Loan Parties, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, have been on fair and reasonable terms substantially as favorable to the Loan Party as would be obtainable by the Loan Party at the time in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate; and such terms are and have been enforced in substantially the same manner as would be used in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate.
5.22. Affiliate Transactions.
     So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Borrower shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in , , and ) cause each Subsidiary to:
Sections 6.01
6.02
6.03
6.11
     . Deliver to the Administrative Agent, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.01. Financial Statements
     (a) as soon as available, but in any event by June 30, 2008 for the fiscal year ended June 24, 2007 and within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower thereafter, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, audited and accompanied by a report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant of nationally recognized standing reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders, which report and opinion shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit;
     (b) as soon as available, but in any event within 50 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower (commencing with the fiscal quarter ended December 23, 2007), a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, certified by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower as fairly presenting the financial condition, results of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes and to the Stock Option Accounting Restatement; and
     (c) as soon as available, but in any event within 90 days after the beginning of each fiscal year of the Borrower, an annual business plan and budget of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, including forecasts prepared by management of the
 
Borrower, in form satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, of consolidated balance sheets and statements of income or operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year.
     As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Borrower shall not be separately required to furnish such information under or above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Borrower to furnish the information and materials described in and above at the times specified therein.
Section 6.02(d)
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
     . Deliver to the Administrative Agent, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.02. Certificates; Other Information
     (a) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in , a certificate of its independent certified public accountants certifying such financial statements;
Section 6.01(a)
     (b) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
     (c) promptly after any request by the Administrative Agent, if not prohibited by the independent accountants submitting such items, copies of any detailed audit reports, management letters or recommendations submitted to the board of directors (or the audit committee of the board of directors) of any Loan Party by independent accountants in connection with the accounts or books of any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries, or any audit of any of them;
     (d) promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Borrower, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which the Borrower may file or be required to file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or with any national securities exchange, and in any case not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto;
     (e) promptly after the furnishing thereof, copies of any statement or report furnished to any holder of debt securities of any Loan Party or of any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to the terms of any indenture, loan or credit or similar agreement and not otherwise required to be furnished to the Lenders pursuant to or any other clause of this ;
Section 6.01
Section 6.02
     (f) as soon as available, but in any event within 60 days after each insurance renewal date of the Borrower, a report summarizing the insurance coverage (specifying type, amount and carrier) in effect for each Loan Party and its Subsidiaries and containing such additional information as the Administrative Agent, or any Lender through the Administrative Agent, may reasonably specify;
     (g) promptly, and in any event within ten Business Days after receipt thereof by any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof, copies of each notice or other correspondence received
 
from the SEC (or comparable agency in any applicable non-U.S. jurisdiction) concerning any investigation or possible investigation by such agency regarding financial or other operational results of any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof;
     (h) not later than ten Business Days after receipt thereof by any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof, copies of all notices of default and material amendments, waivers and other modifications so received under or pursuant to any Material Contract and, from time to time upon request by the Administrative Agent, such information and reports regarding any Material Contract or other instruments, indentures and loan and credit and similar agreements as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request;
     (i) promptly after the assertion or occurrence thereof, notice of any action or proceeding against or of any noncompliance by any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries with any Environmental Law or Environmental Permit that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
     (j) as soon as available, but in any event within 30 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a report supplementing and containing a description of all changes in the information included in such Schedules as may be necessary for such Schedules to be accurate and complete, each such report to be signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower and to be in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent;
Schedules 5.08(e)
5.13
     (k) promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial, legal or corporate affairs of any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
     Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: (i) the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent if it requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent and (ii) the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent (by telecopier or electronic mail) of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (, soft copies) of such documents. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance Certificates required by to the Administrative Agent. Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(d)
Schedule 10.02
provided
i.e.
Section 6.02(b)
 
     The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders (each, a "") may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Persons' securities. The Borrower hereby agrees that so long as the Borrower is the issuer of any outstanding debt or equity securities that are registered or issued pursuant to a private offering or is actively contemplating issuing any such securities it will use commercially reasonable efforts to identify that portion of the Borrower Materials that may be distributed to the Public Lenders and that (w) all such Borrower Materials shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arranger, and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information (although it may be sensitive and proprietary) with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor;" and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor." Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall be under no Obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC".
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
provided
however
Section 10.07
     . Promptly notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
6.03. Notices
     (a) of the occurrence of any Default;
     (b) of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
     (c) of the occurrence of any ERISA Event;
     (d) of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof; and
     (e) of the incurrence or issuance of any Indebtedness for which the Borrower is required to make a mandatory prepayment pursuant to .
Section 2.03(b)
 
     Each notice pursuant to (other than ) shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice pursuant to shall describe with particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
Section 6.03
Section 6.03(e)
Section 6.03(a)
     . Pay and discharge as the same shall become due and payable, all its obligations and liabilities, including (a) all tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary; (b) all lawful claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property; and (c) all Indebtedness, as and when due and payable, but subject to any subordination provisions contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness.
6.04. Payment of Obligations
     . (a)  Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction permitted by or ; , , that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may consummate the Acquisition and any other merger or consolidation permitted under ; (b) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.05. Preservation of Existence, Etc
Section 7.04
7.05
provided
however
Section 7.04
     . (a) Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted; (b) make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) use the standard of care typical in the industry in the operation and maintenance of its facilities. The Borrower shall keep Lam Research International SARL Solvent at all times.
6.06. Maintenance of Properties
     . Maintain with companies having an A.M. Best Rating of at least A- not Affiliates of the Borrower, insurance in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are necessary to ensure that Uninsured Liabilities (other than earthquakes or other earth movements) of the Borrower and/or any Subsidiary are not reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect and providing for not less than 30 days' prior notice to the Administrative Agent of termination, lapse or cancellation of any such insurance on which the Administrative Agent is a loss payee. In addition, the Borrower shall provide not less than 30 days' prior notice to the Administrative Agent of termination, lapse or cancellation of any other insurance.
6.07. Maintenance of Insurance
     . Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction
6.08. Compliance with Laws
 
or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . (a) Maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be; and (b) maintain such books of record and account in material conformity with all applicable requirements of any Governmental Authority having regulatory jurisdiction over the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be.
6.09. Books and Records
     . Permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers, and independent public accountants, all at the expense of the Borrower and at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably desired, upon reasonable advance notice to the Borrower; , , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Borrower at any time during normal business hours and without advance notice.
6.10. Inspection Rights
provided
however
     . Use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions for general corporate purposes not in contravention of any Law or of any Loan Document.
6.11. Use of Proceeds
     . (a) Upon the formation or acquisition of any new direct or indirect Domestic Subsidiary (other than (1) any CFC or (2) a Subsidiary that is held directly or indirectly by a CFC) by any Loan Party, then the Borrower shall, at the Borrower's expense:
6.12. Covenant to Guarantee Obligations and Give Security
     (i) within 10 days after such formation or acquisition, cause such Subsidiary, and cause each direct and indirect parent of such Subsidiary (if it has not already done so), to duly execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent a guaranty or guaranty supplement, in substantially the form of and otherwise in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, guaranteeing the Borrower's obligations under the Loan Documents,
Exhibit E
     (ii) within 10 days after such formation or acquisition, furnish to the Administrative Agent a description of the real and personal properties of such Subsidiary, in detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent,
     (iii) within 15 days after such formation or acquisition, cause such Subsidiary and each direct and indirect parent of such Subsidiary (if it has not already done so) to duly execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent Security Agreement Supplements, Pledge Agreement Supplements and other security and pledge agreements, as specified by and in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (including delivery of all Pledged Interests in and of such Subsidiary, and other instruments of the type
 
specified in ), securing payment of all the Obligations of such Subsidiary or such parent, as the case may be, under the Loan Documents and constituting Liens on all such personal properties, on a basis consistent with the Security Agreement,
Section 4.01(a)(iii)
     (iv) within 30 days after such formation or acquisition, cause such Subsidiary and each direct and indirect parent of such Subsidiary (if it has not already done so) to take whatever action (including the filing of Uniform Commercial Code financing statements and the giving of notices) may be necessary or advisable in the opinion of the Administrative Agent to vest in the Administrative Agent (or in any representative of the Administrative Agent designated by it) valid and subsisting Liens on the properties purported to be subject to the Security Agreement Supplements, Pledge Agreement Supplements and security and pledge agreements delivered pursuant to this , enforceable against all third parties in accordance with their terms, and
Section 6.12
     (v) within 60 days after such formation or acquisition, deliver to the Administrative Agent, upon the request of the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion, a signed copy of a favorable opinion, addressed to the Administrative Agent and the other Secured Parties, of counsel for the Loan Parties acceptable to the Administrative Agent as to the matters contained in clauses (i), (iii) and (iv) above, and as to such other matters as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
In the event that the provisions of this Section 6.12(a) are complied with at the formation or acquisition of a Domestic Subsidiary which, at such time or at any time thereafter, is a CFC Holding Company, then (A) the pledge of equity in such CFC Holding Company shall be initially limited or amended to limit same to sixty-five percent (65%) thereof, and (B) the Guaranty, Security Agreement Supplement, Pledge Agreement Supplement and other related Lien documentation executed by, or filed with respect to, such CFC Holding Company shall not be required or shall be terminated, as the case may be (but the requirement shall continue for any direct or indirect parent of such CFC Holding Company which itself is a Domestic Subsidiary and not a CFC Holding Company).
     (b) Upon the acquisition of any property by any Loan Party, if such property (i), in the judgment of the Administrative Agent, shall not already be subject to (but it is a property-type intended to be subject to the Security Agreement or the Pledge Agreement, as applicable) a perfected first priority security interest in favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties and (ii) has a value in excess of $10,000,000 individually or $25,000,000 in the aggregate in any fiscal year, then the Borrower shall, at the Borrower's expense:
     (i) within 10 Business Days after such acquisition, furnish to the Administrative Agent a description of the property so acquired in detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent,
     (ii) within 15 days after the request of the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion, cause the applicable Loan Party to duly execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent Security Agreement Supplements, Pledge Agreement Supplements and other security and pledge agreements, as specified by and in form and substance
 
satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, securing payment of all the Obligations of the applicable Loan Party under the Loan Documents and constituting Liens on all such properties,
     (iii) within 30 days after the request of the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion, cause the applicable Loan Party to take whatever action (including the filing of Uniform Commercial Code financing statements and the giving of notices) may be necessary or advisable in the opinion of the Administrative Agent to vest in the Administrative Agent (or in any representative of the Administrative Agent designated by it) valid and subsisting Liens on such property, enforceable against all third parties, and
     (iv) within 60 days after the request of the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion, deliver to the Administrative Agent, a signed copy of a favorable opinion, addressed to the Administrative Agent and the other Secured Parties, of counsel for the Loan Parties acceptable to the Administrative Agent as to the matters contained in clauses (ii) and (iii) above and as to such other matters as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
     (c) Upon the request of the Administrative Agent following the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Borrower shall, at the Borrower's expense:
     (i) within 10 days after such request, furnish to the Administrative Agent a description of the real and personal properties of the Loan Parties and their respective Subsidiaries in detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent,
     (ii) within 15 days after such request, duly execute and deliver, and cause each such Subsidiary of the Borrower (if it has not already done so) to duly execute and deliver, to the Administrative Agent, Security Agreement Supplements, Pledge Agreement Supplements and other security and pledge agreements, as specified by and in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (including delivery of all Pledged Equity and Pledged Debt in and of such Subsidiary, and other instruments of the type specified in , securing payment of all the Obligations of Borrower and such Subsidiary under the Loan Documents and constituting Liens on (1) all personal property of Domestic Subsidiaries and (2) such other properties as the parties may mutually agree,
Section 4.01(a)(iii))
     (iii) within 30 days after such request, take, and cause each Subsidiary of the Borrower to take, whatever action (including the filing of Uniform Commercial Code financing statements and the giving of notices) may be necessary or advisable in the opinion of the Administrative Agent to vest in the Administrative Agent (or in any representative of the Administrative Agent designated by it) valid and subsisting Liens on the properties purported to be subject to the Security Agreement Supplements, Pledge Agreement Supplements and security and pledge agreements delivered pursuant to this , enforceable against all third parties in accordance with their terms, and
Section 6.12
     (iv) within 60 days after such request, deliver to the Administrative Agent, upon the request of the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion, a signed copy of a
 
favorable opinion, addressed to the Administrative Agent and the other Secured Parties, of counsel for the Loan Parties acceptable to the Administrative Agent as to the matters contained in clauses (ii) and (iii) above, and as to such other matters as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
     (d) At any time upon request of the Administrative Agent, promptly execute and deliver any and all further instruments and documents and take all such other action as the Administrative Agent may deem necessary or desirable in obtaining the full benefits of, or (as applicable) in perfecting and preserving the Liens of, such guaranties, Security Agreement Supplements, Pledge Agreement Supplements and other security and pledge agreements.
     . Comply, and cause all lessees and other Persons operating or occupying its properties to comply, in all material respects, with all applicable Environmental Laws and Environmental Permits; obtain and renew all Environmental Permits necessary for its operations and properties; and conduct any investigation, study, sampling and testing, and undertake any cleanup, removal, remedial or other action necessary to remove and clean up all Hazardous Materials from any of its properties, in accordance with the requirements of all Environmental Laws; , , that neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to undertake any such cleanup, removal, remedial or other action to the extent that its obligation to do so is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and appropriate reserves are being maintained with respect to such circumstances in accordance with GAAP.
6.13. Compliance with Environmental Laws
provided
however
     . At the request of the Required Lenders from time to time, provide to the Lenders within 60 days after such request, at the expense of the Borrower, an environmental site assessment report for any of its properties described in such request as to which the Required Lenders believe that there may have been a change regarding Hazardous Materials, prepared by an environmental consulting firm acceptable to the Administrative Agent, indicating the presence or absence of Hazardous Materials and the estimated cost of any compliance, removal or remedial action in connection with any Hazardous Materials on such properties; without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if the Administrative Agent determines at any time that a material risk exists that any such report will not be provided within the time referred to above, the Administrative Agent may retain an environmental consulting firm to prepare such report at the expense of the Borrower, and the Borrower hereby grants and agrees to cause any Subsidiary that owns any property described in such request to grant at the time of such request to the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, such firm and any agents or representatives thereof an irrevocable non-exclusive license, subject to the rights of tenants, to enter onto their respective properties to undertake such an assessment.
6.14. Preparation of Environmental Reports
     . Promptly upon request by the Administrative Agent, or any Lender through the Administrative Agent, (a) correct any material defect or error that may be discovered in any Loan Document or in the execution, acknowledgment, filing or recordation thereof, and (b) do, execute, acknowledge, deliver, record, re-record, file, re-file, register and re-register any and all such further acts, deeds, certificates, assurances and other instruments as the Administrative Agent, or any Lender through the Administrative Agent, may reasonably require from time to time in order to (i) carry out more effectively the purposes of the Loan Documents, (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, subject any Loan Party's or any of its
6.15. Further Assurances
 
Subsidiaries' properties, assets, rights or interests to the Liens now or hereafter intended to be covered by any of the Collateral Documents, (iii) perfect and maintain the validity, effectiveness and priority of any of the Collateral Documents and any of the Liens intended to be created thereunder and (iv) assure, convey, grant, assign, transfer, preserve, protect and confirm more effectively unto the Secured Parties the rights granted or now or hereafter intended to be granted to the Secured Parties under any Loan Document or under any other instrument executed in connection with any Loan Document to which any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries is or is to be a party, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to do so.
     . Make all payments and otherwise perform all obligations in respect of all leases of real property to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is a party, keep such leases in full force and effect and not allow such leases to lapse or be terminated or any rights to renew such leases to be forfeited or cancelled, notify the Administrative Agent of any default by any party with respect to such leases and cooperate with the Administrative Agent in all respects to cure any such default, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to do so, except, in any case, where the failure to do so, either individually or in the aggregate, could not be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.16. Compliance with Terms of Leaseholds
     . Promptly following receipt of the acknowledgment copy of any financing statements filed under the Uniform Commercial Code in any jurisdiction by or on behalf of the Secured Parties, deliver to the Administrative Agent completed requests for information listing such financing statement and all other effective financing statements filed in such jurisdiction that name any Loan Party as debtor, together with copies of such other financing statements.
6.17. Lien Searches
     . Perform and observe all the terms and provisions of each Material Contract to be performed or observed by it, maintain each such Material Contract in full force and effect, enforce each such Material Contract in accordance with its terms, take all such action to such end as may be from time to time requested by the Administrative Agent and, upon request of the Administrative Agent, make to each other party to each such Material Contract such demands and requests for information and reports or for action as any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries is entitled to make under such Material Contract, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to do so.
6.18. Material Contracts
     So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly:
     . Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or sign or file or suffer to exist under the Uniform Commercial Code of any jurisdiction a financing statement that names the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as debtor, or assign any accounts or other right to receive income, other than the following:
7.01. Liens
 
     (a) Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;
     (b) Liens existing on the date hereof and listed on and any renewals or extensions thereof, that (i) the property covered thereby is not changed, (ii) the amount secured or benefited thereby is not increased except as contemplated by , (iii) the direct or any contingent obligor with respect thereto is not changed, and (iv) any renewal or extension of the obligations secured or benefited thereby is permitted by ;
Schedule 5.08(b)
provided
Section 7.02(f)
Section 7.02(f)
     (c) Liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person in accordance with GAAP;
     (d) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person;
     (e) pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation, and other ordinary course insurance arrangements other than any Lien imposed by ERISA;
     (f) deposits to secure the performance of utility or other obligations to service providers, bids, trade contracts and leases (other than Indebtedness), statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
     (g) Liens securing an operating or space lease; that (i) such Liens do not at any time encumber any property other than the property subject to such lease;
provided
     (h) Liens securing judgments for the payment of money not constituting an Event of Default under ;
Section 8.01(h)
     (i) Liens securing Indebtedness permitted under ; that (i) such Liens do not at any time encumber any property other than the property financed by such Indebtedness and (ii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed the cost or fair market value, whichever is lower, of the property being acquired on the date of acquisition;
Section 7.02(c)
provided
     (j) other Liens securing Indebtedness outstanding in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $10,000,000, that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any Collateral;
provided
     (k) Liens securing the Indebtedness of SEZ Holding and its Subsidiaries permitted under ; and
Section 7.02(i)(1)
     (l) the replacement, extension or renewal of any Lien permitted by clauses (a) through (k) above upon or in the same property theretofore subject thereto or the replacement, extension or renewal (without increase in the amount or change in any direct or contingent obligor) of the Indebtedness secured thereby.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the exceptions contained in clauses (c) through (k) above shall not apply to IP Rights.
     . Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness, except:
7.02. Indebtedness
     (a) obligations (contingent or otherwise) existing or arising under any Swap Contract, that (i) such obligations are (or were) entered into by such Person in the ordinary course of business for the purpose of directly mitigating risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates or foreign exchange rates and (ii) such Swap Contract does not contain any provision exonerating the non-defaulting party from its obligation to make payments on outstanding transactions to the defaulting party; provided that the aggregate Swap Termination Value thereof shall not exceed $50,000,000 at any time outstanding;
provided
     (b) Subordinated Indebtedness of any Loan Party;
     (c) Indebtedness in respect of Capitalized Leases, Permitted Synthetic Lease Obligations and purchase money obligations for fixed or capital assets within the limitations set forth in ; , , that the aggregate amount of all such Indebtedness at any one time outstanding shall not exceed $215,000,000 (inclusive of the Permitted Synthetic Lease Obligations);
Section 7.01(i)
provided
however
     (d) Indebtedness of a Subsidiary of the Borrower owed to the Borrower or a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower, which Indebtedness shall, as applicable, (i) in the case of Indebtedness owed to a Loan Party, constitute "Pledged Debt" under the Pledge Agreement, (ii) in the case of Indebtedness that is part of the Borrower's normal cash management procedures, be in the ordinary course of business, (iii) in the case of inter-company Indebtedness owed to Lam Research International SARL by a Subsidiary other than a Loan Party, have existed on December 31, 2007 or shall not exceed $15,000,000 in the aggregate in any calendar year or shall be on terms (including amount and subordination terms) acceptable to the Administrative Agent and (iv) be otherwise permitted under the provisions of ;
Section 7.03
     (e) Indebtedness under the Loan Documents;
     (f) Other than Indebtedness of the type permitted pursuant under Section 7.02(d)(ii), Indebtedness of any Loan Party which is outstanding on the date hereof and listed on and any refinancings, refundings, renewals or extensions thereof; that the amount of such Indebtedness is not increased at the time of such refinancing, refunding, renewal or extension except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such refinancing and by an amount equal to any existing commitments unutilized thereunder and the direct or any contingent obligor with respect thereto is not changed, as a result of or in connection with such refinancing, refunding, renewal or extension; and , , that the terms relating to principal amount, amortization, maturity, collateral (if any) and subordination (if any), and other material terms taken as a whole, of any such refinancing, refunding, renewing or extending Indebtedness, and of any agreement entered into and of any instrument issued in connection therewith, are no less favorable in any material respect to the Loan Parties or the Lenders than the terms of any agreement or instrument governing the Indebtedness being refinanced, refunded,
Schedule 7.02
provided
provided
still
further
 
renewed or extended and the interest rate applicable to any such refinancing, refunding, renewing or extending Indebtedness does not exceed the then applicable market interest rate;
     (g) Indebtedness of any Person (other than SEZ Holding AG and its subsidiaries) that becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower after the date hereof in accordance with the terms of , which Indebtedness is existing at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower (other than Indebtedness incurred solely in contemplation of such Person's becoming a Subsidiary of the Borrower);
Section 7.03(i)
     (h) unsecured Indebtedness of any Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party and that is other than SEZ Holding AG or a Subsidiary thereof; that the aggregate Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness of the type permitted pursuant under Section 7.02(d)) under this clause (h) with respect to Subsidiaries other than SEZ Holding AG and its Subsidiaries does not exceed at any time
provided
(x) the amount of such Indebtedness that is outstanding as of December 23, 2007 and is listed on (the "Non SEZ Subsidiary Indebtedness December Cap"), plus
Schedule 7.02
(y) $35,000,000 (or the foreign currency equivalent thereof from time to time);
and that the aggregate secured and unsecured Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness of the type permitted pursuant under Section 7.02(d)) under this clause (h) or clause (i) below with respect to all Subsidiaries that are not Loan Parties does not exceed at any time the sum of the Non SEZ Subsidiary Indebtedness December Cap, plus the SEZ Acquisition Indebtedness Cap (defined in clause (i) below) plus $35,000,000 (or the foreign currency equivalent thereof from time to time);
provided further
     (i) secured or unsecured Indebtedness of SEZ Holding AG and its Subsidiaries; that
provided
(1) the aggregate secured Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness of the type permitted pursuant under Section 7.02(d)) under this clause (i) with respect to SEZ Holding AG and its Subsidiaries does not exceed at any time the amount of such secured Indebtedness that is outstanding as of the date of the Acquisition (not to exceed $65,000,000), and
(2) the aggregate secured and unsecured Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness of the type permitted pursuant under Section 7.02(d)) under this clause (i) with respect to SEZ Holding AG and its Subsidiaries does not exceed at any time
(x) the amount of such secured and unsecured Indebtedness that is outstanding as of the date of the Acquisition (not to exceed $65,000,000) (the "SEZ Acquisition Indebtedness Cap") plus
(y) $35,000,000 (or the foreign currency equivalent thereof from time to time);
 
and that the aggregate secured and unsecured Indebtedness (other than Indebtedness of the type permitted pursuant under Section 7.02(d)) under clause (h) above or this clause (i) with respect to all Subsidiaries that are not Loan Parties does not exceed at any time the sum of the Non SEZ Subsidiary Indebtedness December Cap, plus the SEZ Acquisition Indebtedness Cap plus $35,000,000 (or the foreign currency equivalent thereof from time to time); and
provided further
     (j) other unsecured Indebtedness of the Loan Parties.
     . At any time that the Borrower's Minimum Liquidity is less than $300,000,000 (or would be less than $300,000,000 immediately after making such Investment), make or hold any Investments, except:
7.03. Investments
     (a) consolidated short-term and long-term Investments shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries determined in accordance with GAAP, but excluding any Investments that are not (i) readily marketable debt or money market securities or (ii) Equity Interests readily marketable on a recognized securities exchange;
     (b) advances to officers, directors and employees of the Borrower and Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 at any time outstanding, for travel, entertainment, relocation and analogous ordinary business purposes;
     (c) (i) Investments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in their respective Subsidiaries outstanding on the date hereof and in SEZ Holding AG upon the Acquisition, (ii) additional Investments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in Loan Parties (other than the Borrower), (iii) additional Investments by Subsidiaries of the Borrower that are not Loan Parties in other Subsidiaries that are not Loan Parties and (iv) so long as no Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from such Investment, additional Investments by the Loan Parties in wholly-owned Subsidiaries that are not Loan Parties in an aggregate amount (excluding Pledged Debt) invested from the date hereof not to exceed $10,000,000;
     (d) Investments consisting of extensions of credit in the nature of accounts receivable or notes receivable arising from the grant of trade credit in the ordinary course of business, and Investments received in satisfaction or partial satisfaction thereof from financially troubled account debtors to the extent reasonably necessary in order to prevent or limit loss;
     (e) Guarantees permitted by ;
Section 7.02
     (f) Without limiting any other permitted Investments in this Section 7.03, Investments existing on the date that Minimum Liquidity was reduced to less than $300,000,000;
     (g) Investments by the Borrower in Swap Contracts permitted under ;
Section 7.02(a)
     (h) the purchase or other acquisition of all of the Equity Interests in, or all or substantially all of the property of, any Person that, upon the consummation thereof, will be wholly-owned directly by the Borrower or one or more of its wholly-owned Subsidiaries (including as a result of a merger or consolidation); that, with respect to each purchase or other acquisition made pursuant to this :
provided
Section 7.03(h)
 
     (1) any such newly-created or acquired Domestic Subsidiary shall comply with the requirements of ;
Section 6.12
     (2) the lines of business of the Person to be (or the property of which is to be) so purchased or otherwise acquired shall be substantially the same lines of business as one or more of the principal businesses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course;
     (3) such purchase or other acquisition shall not include or result in any contingent liabilities that could reasonably be expected to be material to the business, financial condition, operations or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (as determined in good faith by the board of directors (or the persons performing similar functions) of the Borrower or such Subsidiary if the board of directors is otherwise approving such transaction and, in each other case, by a Responsible Officer);
     (4) the total cash consideration (including the fair market value of all Equity Interests issued or transferred to the sellers thereof, all indemnities, earnouts and other contingent payment obligations to, and the aggregate amounts paid or to be paid under noncompete, consulting and other affiliated agreements with, the sellers thereof, all write-downs of property and reserves for liabilities with respect thereto and all assumptions of debt, liabilities and other obligations in connection therewith) paid by or on behalf of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for any such purchase or other acquisition, when aggregated with the total cash consideration paid by or on behalf of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for all other purchases and other acquisitions made by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries pursuant to this , shall not exceed $10,000,000;
Section 7.03(h)
     (5) (A) immediately before and immediately after giving pro forma effect to any such purchase or other acquisition, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (B) immediately after giving effect to such purchase or other acquisition, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries shall be in pro forma compliance with all of the covenants set forth in , such compliance to be determined on the basis of the financial information most recently delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to or as though such purchase or other acquisition had been consummated as of the first day of the fiscal period covered thereby; and
Section 7.11
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
     (6) the Borrower shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent, at least five Business Days prior to the date on which any such purchase or other acquisition is to be consummated, a certificate of a Responsible Officer, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, certifying that all of the requirements set forth in this have been satisfied or will be satisfied on or prior to the consummation of such purchase or other acquisition;
Section 7.03(h)
     (i) Investments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries not otherwise permitted under this in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000; that, with respect to each Investment made pursuant to this :
Section 7.03
provided
Section 7.03(i)
 
     (1) such Investment shall not include or result in any contingent liabilities that could reasonably be expected to be material to the business, financial condition, operations or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (as determined in good faith by the board of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of the Borrower or such Subsidiary if the board of directors is otherwise approving such transaction and, in each other case, by a Responsible Officer);
     (2) such Investment shall be in property that is part of, or in lines of business that are, substantially the same lines of business as one or more of the principal businesses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course;
     (3) any determination of the amount of such Investment shall include all cash and noncash consideration (including the fair market value of all Equity Interests issued or transferred to the sellers thereof, all indemnities, earnouts and other contingent payment obligations to, and the aggregate amounts paid or to be paid under noncompete, consulting and other affiliated agreements with, the sellers thereof, all write-downs of property and reserves for liabilities with respect thereto and all assumptions of debt, liabilities and other obligations in connection therewith) paid by or on behalf of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in connection with such Investment; and
     (4) (A) immediately before and immediately after giving pro forma effect to any such purchase or other acquisition, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (B) immediately after giving effect to such purchase or other acquisition, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries shall be in pro forma compliance with all of the covenants set forth in , such compliance to be determined on the basis of the financial information most recently delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to or as though such Investment had been consummated as of the first day of the fiscal period covered thereby; and
Section 7.11
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
     (j) Investment in promissory notes and other assets in exchange for the transfer by the Borrower of its interest in SEZ Holding Corp. to a wholly-owned Subsidiary.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 7.03, whether or not Minimum Liquidity is less than $300,000,000, Lam Research International SARL shall not make any Investments in any Subsidiary other than a Loan Party except those which existed on December 31, 2007 or which do not exceed $15,000,000 in the aggregate in any calendar year or which are on terms (including amount) acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
     . Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, or Dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any Person, except that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom:
7.04. Fundamental Changes
     (a) any Subsidiary may merge with (i) the Borrower, that the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving Person, or (ii) any one or more other Subsidiaries, that when any Subsidiary which is a Loan Party is merging with another Subsidiary, a Loan Party shall be the continuing or surviving Person;
provided
provided
 
     (b) any Loan Party may Dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Borrower or to another Loan Party;
     (c) any Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party may dispose of all or substantially all its assets (including any Disposition that is in the nature of a liquidation) to (i) another Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party or (ii) to a Loan Party;
     (d) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may consummate the Acquisition;
     (e) in connection with any acquisition permitted under , any Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge into or consolidate with any other Person or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it; that (i) the Person surviving such merger shall be a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower and (ii) in the case of any such merger to which any Loan Party (other than the Borrower) is a party, such Loan Party is the surviving Person; and
Section 7.03
provided
     (f) so long as no Default has occurred and is continuing or would result therefrom, each of the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries may merge into or consolidate with any other Person or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it; , , that in each case, immediately after giving effect thereto (i) in the case of any such merger to which the Borrower is a party, the Borrower is the surviving corporation and (ii) in the case of any such merger to which any Loan Party (other than the Borrower) is a party, such Loan Party is the surviving corporation.
provided
however
     . Make any Disposition or enter into any agreement to make any Disposition, except:
7.05. Dispositions
     (a) Dispositions of obsolete or worn out property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, in the ordinary course of business;
     (b) Dispositions of inventory in the ordinary course of business;
     (c) Dispositions of equipment or real property to the extent that (i) such property is exchanged for credit against the purchase price of similar replacement property or (ii) the proceeds of such Disposition are reasonably promptly applied to the purchase price of such replacement property or (iii) such equipment or real property is no longer needed in the business of the Borrower;
     (d) Dispositions of property by any Subsidiary to the Borrower or to a wholly-owned Subsidiary; that if the transferor of such property is a Guarantor, the transferee thereof must either be the Borrower or a Guarantor;
provided
     (e) Dispositions permitted by
Section 7.04;
     (f) non-exclusive licenses of IP Rights in the ordinary course of business and substantially consistent with past practice for terms not exceeding five years;
     (g) Dispositions by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries not otherwise permitted under this ; that (i) at the time of such Disposition, no Default shall exist or
Section 7.05
provided
 
would result from such Disposition, (ii) the aggregate book value of all property Disposed of in reliance on this clause (h) in any fiscal year shall not exceed $10,000,000 and (iii) the purchase price for such asset shall be paid to the Borrower or such Subsidiary solely in cash;
     (h) so long as no Default shall occur and be continuing, the grant of any option or other right to purchase any asset in a transaction that would be permitted under the provisions of ; and
Section 7.05(g)
     (i) the transfer of the Equity Interests in SEZ Holding AG from the Borrower to Lam Research International SARL or other Subsidiary;
     , , that any Disposition pursuant to through shall be for fair market value.
provided
however
Section 7.05(a)
Section 7.05(g)
     . Declare or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, or incur any obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so, or issue or sell any Equity Interests or accept any capital contributions, except that, so long as no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of any action described below or would result therefrom:
7.06. Restricted Payments
     (a) each Subsidiary may make Restricted Payments to the Borrower, any Subsidiaries of the Borrower and any other Person that owns a direct Equity Interest in such Subsidiary, ratably according to their respective holdings of the type of Equity Interest in respect of which such Restricted Payment is being made;
     (b) the Borrower and each Subsidiary may declare and make dividend payments or other distributions payable solely in the common stock or other common Equity Interests of such Person;
     (c) the Borrower and each Subsidiary may purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire its common Equity Interests with the proceeds received from the substantially concurrent issue of new common Equity Interests; and
     (d) the Borrower may (i) declare or pay cash dividends to its stockholders and (ii) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for cash Equity Interests issued by it if after giving effect thereto the Borrower's Minimum Liquidity would be at least $300,000,000.
     . Engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto.
7.07. Change in Nature of Business
     . Enter into any transaction of any kind (including without limitation the sale of inventory) with any Affiliate of the Borrower, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, other than on fair and reasonable terms substantially as favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by the Borrower or such Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate; or fail to enforce the terms of any such transaction in substantially the same manner as would be used in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate; that the
7.08. Transactions with Affiliates
provided
 
foregoing restriction shall not apply to transactions between or among the Loan Parties or to the transfer of SEZ Holding Corp. by the Borrower to a wholly-owned Subsidiary.
     . Enter into or permit to exist any Contractual Obligation (other than this Agreement or any other Loan Document) that (a) limits the ability
7.09. Burdensome Agreements
(i) of any Subsidiary to make Restricted Payments to the Borrower or any Guarantor or to otherwise transfer property to or invest in the Borrower or any Guarantor, except for any agreement in effect (A) on the date hereof and set forth on or (B) at the time any Subsidiary becomes a Subsidiary of the Borrower, so long as such agreement was not entered into solely in contemplation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary of the Borrower,
Schedule 7.09
(ii) of any Subsidiary to Guarantee the Indebtedness of the Borrower, or
(iii) of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Liens on property of such Person; , , that this clause (iii) shall not prohibit any negative pledge incurred or provided in favor of any holder of Indebtedness permitted under solely to the extent any such negative pledge relates to the property financed by or the subject of such Indebtedness;
provided
however
Section 7.02(c), (f) or (g)
or (b) requires the grant of a Lien to secure an obligation of such Person if a Lien is granted to secure another obligation of such Person.
     . Use the proceeds of any Credit Extension, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the FRB) or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose.
7.10. Use of Proceeds
     . (a) . Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio at any time to be greater than forty percent (40%).
7.11. Financial Covenants
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
     (b) . Permit the Minimum Liquidity at any time to be less than $100,000,000.
Minimum Liquidity
     (c) . Permit Consolidated EBITDA at the end of any fiscal quarter to be less than $200,000,000.
Minimum EBITDA
     . At any time that the Borrower's Minimum Liquidity is less than $300,000,000 (or would be less than $300,000,000 immediately after making such Capital Expenditure), make or become legally obligated to make any Capital Expenditure, except for Capital Expenditures in the ordinary course of business not exceeding, in the aggregate for the Borrower and it Subsidiaries during each fiscal year set forth below, the amount set forth opposite such fiscal year:
7.12. Capital Expenditures
 
     Amend any of its Organization Documents.
7.13. Amendments of Organization Documents.
     . Make any change in (a) accounting policies or reporting practices, except as required by GAAP, or (b) fiscal year.
7.14. Accounting Changes
     . Prepay, redeem, purchase, defease or otherwise satisfy prior to the scheduled maturity thereof in any manner, or make any payment in violation of any subordination terms of, any Indebtedness, except (a) the prepayment of the Credit Extensions in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and (b) regularly scheduled or required repayments or redemptions of Indebtedness set forth in and refinancings and refundings of such Indebtedness in compliance with and (h).
7.15. Prepayments, Etc. of Indebtedness
Schedule 7.02
Section 7.02(f)
     . Materially amend, modify or change in any manner any term or condition of any Indebtedness set forth in , except for any refinancing, refunding, renewal or extension thereof permitted by .
7.16. Amendment of Certain Indebtedness
Schedule 7.02
Section 7.02(f)
     . Change any of the terms of any Subordinated Indebtedness or prepay or purchase any Subordinated Indebtedness.
7.17. Subordinated Indebtedness
     . Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
8.01. Events of Default
     (a) . The Borrower fails to (i) pay when and as required to be paid herein, any amount of principal of any Loan, or (ii) pay within three days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan, or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) pay within five days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
     (b) . (i) The Borrower fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of , , , , or or (ii) any of the Loan Parties fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in , , or of the Security Agreement or , , or of the Pledge Agreement; or
Specific Covenants
Section 6.03(a)
6.05(a)
6.05(b)
6.11
Article VII
,
Section 4(b)
4(c)
4(j)
Section 4(d)
4(e)
4(f)
     (c) . Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in or above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for 30 days (or such shorter grace period as may be specified in such other Loan Document); or
Other Defaults
Section 8.01(a)
(b)
     (d) . Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower, in any other Loan
Representations and Warranties
 
Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
     (e) . (i) Any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof (A) fails to make any payment when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) in respect of any Indebtedness or Guarantee (other than Indebtedness hereunder and Indebtedness under Swap Contracts) having an aggregate principal amount (including undrawn committed or available amounts and including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) of more than the Threshold Amount, or (B) fails to observe or perform any other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness or Guarantee or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event occurs, the effect of which default or other event is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to be demanded or to become due or to be repurchased, prepaid, defeased or redeemed (automatically or otherwise), or an offer to repurchase, prepay, defease or redeem such Indebtedness to be made, prior to its stated maturity, or such Guarantee to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to be demanded; or (ii) there occurs under any Swap Contract an Early Termination Date (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which a Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) or (B) any Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap Contract as to which a Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof is an Affected Party (as so defined) and, in either event, the Swap Termination Value owed by such Loan Party or such Subsidiary as a result thereof is greater than the Threshold Amount; or
Cross-Default
     (f) . Any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undischarged for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc
     (g) . (i) Any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
     (h) . There is entered against any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof (i) one or more final judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount (as to all such judgments and orders) exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer is rated at least "A" by A.M. Best
Judgments
 
Company, has been notified of the potential claim and does not dispute coverage and not vacated, discharged, stayed, or bonded within 10 days of entry), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (B) there is a period of 10 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or
     (i) . (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount, or (ii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount; or
ERISA
     (j) . Any material provision of any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or any Loan Party denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any provision of any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any provision of any Loan Document; or
Invalidity of Loan Documents
     (k) . There occurs any Change of Control; or
Change of Control
     (l) . Any Collateral Document after delivery thereof pursuant to or shall for any reason (other than pursuant to the terms thereof) cease to create a valid and perfected first priority Lien (subject to Liens permitted by ) on the Collateral purported to be covered thereby; or
Collateral Documents
Section 4.01
6.12
Section 7.01
     (m) . (i) The subordination provisions of the documents evidencing or governing any Subordinated Indebtedness (the "") shall, in whole or in part, terminate, cease to be effective or cease to be legally valid, binding and enforceable against any holder of the applicable Subordinated Indebtedness; or (ii) the Borrower shall, directly or indirectly, disavow or contest in any manner (A) the effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any of the Subordination Provisions, (B) that the Subordination Provisions exist for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders or (C) that all payments of principal of or premium and interest on the applicable Subordinated Indebtedness, or realized from the liquidation of any property of any Loan Party, shall be subject to any of the Subordination Provisions.
Subordination
Subordinated Provisions
     . If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
8.02. Remedies upon Event of Default
     (a) declare the Commitment of each Lender to make Loans to be terminated, whereupon such Commitments and obligation shall be terminated; and
 
     (b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; and
     (c) exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it, the Lenders under the Loan Documents;
, , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans shall automatically terminate and the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable shall automatically become effective, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
     . After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
8.03. Application of Funds
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal and interest) payable to the Lenders (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders (including fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of any Lender) and amounts payable under , ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them; and
Second
Article III
Second
     , the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
     . (a) Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints ABN AMRO to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and, except as expressly provided herein, the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
9.01. Appointment and Authority
 
     (b) The Administrative Agent shall also act as the "" under the Loan Documents, and each of the Lenders (in its capacities as a Lender) hereby irrevocably appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to act as the agent of such Lender for purposes of acquiring, holding and enforcing any and all Liens on Collateral granted by any of the Loan Parties to secure any of the Obligations, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto. In this connection, the Administrative Agent, as "collateral agent" and any co-agents, sub-agents and attorneys-in-fact appointed by the Administrative Agent pursuant to for purposes of holding or enforcing any Lien on the Collateral (or any portion thereof) granted under the Collateral Documents, or for exercising any rights and remedies thereunder at the direction of the Administrative Agent), shall be entitled to the benefits of all provisions of this and (including , as though such co-agents, sub-agents and attorneys-in-fact were the "collateral agent" under the Loan Documents) as if set forth in full herein with respect thereto.
collateral agent
Section 9.05
Article IX
Article X
Section 10.04(c)
     . The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
9.02. Rights as a Lender
     . The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
9.03. Exculpatory Provisions
     (a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
     (b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
     (c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
     The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage
 
of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender.
Sections 10.01
8.02
     The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document, or the creation, perfection or priority of any Lien purported to be created by the Collateral Documents, (v) the value or the sufficiency of any Collateral, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
     . The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Loan. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
9.04. Reliance by Administrative Agent
     . The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
9.05. Delegation of Duties
     . The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower and so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with the consent of the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States,
9.06. Resignation of Administrative Agent
 
or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (a) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (except that in the case of any collateral security held by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders under any of the Loan Documents, the retiring Administrative Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a successor Administrative Agent is appointed) and (b) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
provided
Section 10.04
     . Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
9.07. Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
     . Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Bookrunners or Arrangers listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, a Lender hereunder.
9.08. No Other Duties, Etc
     . In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of
9.09. Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
 
whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
     (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.04
10.04
     (b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
     and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, if the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.04
10.04
     Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender or in any such proceeding.
     . The Lenders irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent, at its option and in its discretion,
9.10. Collateral and Guaranty Matters
     (a) to release any Lien on any property granted to or held by the Administrative Agent under any Loan Document (i) upon termination of the Aggregate Commitments and payment in full of all Obligations (other than contingent indemnification obligations), (ii) that is sold or to be sold as part of or in connection with any sale permitted hereunder or under any other Loan Document, or (iii) if approved, authorized or ratified in writing in accordance with ;
Section 10.01
     (b) to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty if such Person ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder; and
     (c) to subordinate, or to confirm the absence or release of, any Lien granted to or held by the Administrative Agent under any Loan Document with respect to any Lien on property that is permitted by .
Section 7.01(i)
     Upon request by the Administrative Agent at any time, the Required Lenders will confirm in writing the Administrative Agent's authority to release or subordinate its interest in particular types or items of property, or to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the
 
Guaranty pursuant to this . In each case as specified in this , the Administrative Agent will, at the Borrower's expense, execute and deliver to the applicable Loan Party such documents as such Loan Party may reasonably request to evidence the release of such item of Collateral from the assignment and security interest granted under the Collateral Documents or to subordinate its interest in such item, or to release such Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty, in each case in accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents and this .
Section 9.10
Section 9.10
Section 9.10
     . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower or any other Loan Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders (or signed by the Administrative Agent with the written consent of the Required Lenders) and the Borrower, or the applicable Loan Party, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
10.01. Amendments, Etc
provided
however
     (a) waive any condition set forth in (other than or ), or , without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01
Section 4.01(b)(i)
(c)
Section 4.02
     (b) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender;
     (c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under such other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender entitled to such payment;
     (d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan, or (subject to clause (ii) of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender entitled to such amount; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate;
Section 10.01
provided
however
     (e) change (i) or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender or (ii) the order of application of any prepayment of Loans from the application thereof set forth in the applicable provisions of in any manner that materially and adversely affects the Lenders under a Facility without the written consent of the Required Lenders;
Section 2.10
Section 8.03
Section 2.03(b)
     (f) change any provision of this or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 10.01
 
     (g) release all or substantially all of the Collateral in any transaction or series of related transactions, without the written consent of each Lender;
     (h) release all or substantially all of the value of the Guaranty, without the written consent of each Lender, except to the extent the release of any Subsidiary from the Guaranty is permitted pursuant to (in which case such release may be made by the Administrative Agent acting alone); or
Section 9.10
     (i) impose any greater restriction on the ability of any Lender under a Facility to assign any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the written consent of the Required Lenders;
and , , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (ii) the Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
provided
further
     If any Lender does not consent to a proposed amendment, waiver, consent or release with respect to any Loan Document that requires the consent of each Lender and that has been approved by the Required Lenders, the Borrower may replace such non-consenting Lender in accordance with ; that such amendment, waiver, consent or release can be effected as a result of the assignment contemplated by such Section (together with all other such assignments required by the Borrower to be made pursuant to this paragraph).
Section 10.13
provided
     . (a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
10.02. Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communications
Notices Generally
     (i) if to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
     (ii) if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in
 
subsection (b) below shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
     (b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to if such Lender, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
1
provided
Article II
provided
     Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
     (c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
 
 
     (d) . Each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender. Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the "Private Side Information" or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lender's compliance procedures and applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the "Public Side Information" portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
Change of Address, Etc
     (e) . The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Committed Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent and Lenders
     . No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided, and provided under each other Loan Document, are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
10.03. No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
     . (a) . The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Lender
10.04. Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
Costs and Expenses
 
(including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Lender), and shall pay all fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of the Administrative Agent, any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section or (B) in connection with Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans.
     (b) . The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), and shall indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnitee from all fees and time charges and disbursements for attorneys who may be employees of any Indemnitee, incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower or any other Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower or any of the Borrower's or such Loan Party's directors, shareholders or creditors, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower against an Indemnitee for breach of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower or such Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Borrower
Indemnitee
provided
     (c) . To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof) or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
 
agent). The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of .
Section 2.10(d)
     (d) . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
     (e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
     (f) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
     . To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
10.05. Payments Set Aside
plus
     (a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that neither the Borrower nor any other Loan Party may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of , (ii) by way of participation in
10.06. Successors and Assigns.
Successors and Assigns Generally
Section 10.06(b)
 
accordance with the provisions of , or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Section 10.06(d)
Section 10.06(f)
     (b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment(s) and the Loans at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
     (i) .
Minimum Amounts
     (A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment under any Facility and the Loans at the time owing to it under such Facility or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
     (B) in any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $25,000,000 (and the assigning Lender shall retain at least $25,000,000 in Commitments) in the case of any assignment, unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met;
provided
however
     (ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not prohibit any Lender from assigning all or a portion of its rights and obligations among separate Facilities on a non-pro rata basis;
Proportionate Amounts
 
     (iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
     (A) the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; and
     (B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for assignments if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender.
     (iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
     (v) . No such assignment shall be made to the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
No Assignment to Borrower
     (vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with .
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
Section 10.06(d)
     (c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall
Register
Register
 
be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
     (d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in that affects such Participant. Subject to of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to . To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
Participations
Participant
provided
provided
Section 10.01(b), (c) or (d)
subsection (e)
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
Section 10.06(b)
Section 10.08
provided
Section 2.10
     (e) . Voting rights of participants shall be limited to matters in respect of (a) increases in commitments, (b) reductions of principal, interest or fees and (c) extensions of final maturity. A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
     (f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
     (g) . The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to
Electronic Execution of Assignments
 
include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
     Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
10.07. Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality.
     For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof relating to any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof or their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof, that, in the case of information received from a Loan Party or any such Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
     Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws.
     . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from
10.08. Right of Setoff
 
time to time, after obtaining the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower or any other Loan Party against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower or such Loan Party now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower or such Loan Party may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
provided
     . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
10.09. Interest Rate Limitation
Maximum Rate
     This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
10.10. Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.
Section 4.01
     All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the
10.11. Survival of Representations and Warranties.
 
Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied.
     . If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
10.12. Severability
     If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender or if any other circumstance exists hereunder that gives the Borrower the right to replace a Lender as a party hereto, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), provided that:
10.13. Replacement of Lenders.
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.06
     (a) the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
     (b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
     (c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
     (d) such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
     A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
     . (a) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
10.14. Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
GOVERNING LAW
 
     (b) . THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA SITTING IN THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA SITTING SAN FRANCISCO, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH CALIFORNIA STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ANY LENDER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST THE BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
     (c) . THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
     (d) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN . NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
     EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF
10.15. Waiver of Jury Trial.
 
LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
     If any action or proceeding is filed in a court of the State of California by or against any party hereto in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (a) the court shall, and is hereby directed to, make a general reference pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 638 to a referee (who shall be a single active or retired judge) to hear and determine all of the issues in such action or proceeding (whether of fact or of law) and to report a statement of decision, that at the option of any party to such proceeding, any such issues pertaining to a "provisional remedy" as defined in California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.8 shall be heard and determined by the court, and (b) without limiting the generality of , the Borrower shall be solely responsible to pay all fees and expenses of any referee appointed in such action or proceeding.
10.16. California Judicial Reference.
provided
Section 10.04
     In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent and the Arranger are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arranger, on the other hand, (B) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger each is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arranger has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; and (iii) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and the Arranger with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
10.17. No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility.
     . Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Loan Party, which information includes the name and
10.18. USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
 
address of each Loan Party and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify each Loan Party in accordance with the Act.
     Time is of the essence of the Loan Documents.
10.19. Time of the Essence.
 
     the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.112
EXECUTION VERSION
To: ABN AMRO Bank N.V., individually and as administrative agent (in such capacity, "") for the Lenders ("") from time to time signatory to the Credit Agreement dated as of the date hereof by and among Lam Research Corporation (""), Agent and Lenders (including all annexes, exhibits and schedules thereto, as from time to time amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified, the "").
Agent
Lenders
Borrower
Credit Agreement
     1. . For valuable consideration, the undersigned (individually and collectively "") hereby unconditionally guarantees and promises to pay promptly to Agent, or order, in lawful money of the United States, any and all Guaranteed Obligations of Borrower when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, and at all times thereafter. The liability of Guarantor under this Guaranty is not limited as to the principal amount of the Guaranteed Obligations guaranteed and includes, without limitation, liability for all interest, fees, indemnities (including, without limitation, hazardous waste indemnities), and other costs and expenses relating to or arising out of the Guaranteed Obligations. The liability of Guarantor is continuing and relates to any Guaranteed Obligations, including that arising under successive transactions which shall either continue the Guaranteed Obligations or from time to time renew it after it has been satisfied. This Guaranty is cumulative and does not supersede any other outstanding guaranties, and the liability of Guarantor under this Guaranty is exclusive of Guarantor's liability under any other guaranties signed by Guarantor. If multiple individuals or entities sign this Guaranty, their obligations under this Guaranty shall be joint and several. If Guarantor is a subsidiary or affiliate of Borrower, Guarantor's liability hereunder shall not exceed at any one time the largest amount during the period commencing with Guarantor's execution of this Guaranty and thereafter that would not render Guarantor's obligations hereunder subject to avoidance under Section 548 of the Bankruptcy Code (Title 11, United States Code) or any comparable provisions of any applicable state law.
The Guaranty
Guarantor
     2. .
Definitions
     (a) Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement, unless otherwise defined herein.
     (b) "" shall mean the entity signing this Guaranty and, if more than one, then any one or more of them.
Guarantor
     (c) "" shall mean any and all Obligations and SWAP Obligations, now or hereafter existing, whether voluntary or involuntary and however arising, whether direct or indirect or acquired by assignment, succession, or otherwise, whether due or not due, absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, determined or undetermined, held or to be held by Agent or the Lenders or their Affiliates for its own account or as agent for another or others, whether Borrower may be liable individually or jointly with others, whether recovery upon such debts, liabilities, and obligations may be or hereafter become barred by any statute of limitations, and whether such Obligations or SWAP Obligations may be or hereafter become otherwise unenforceable. Guaranteed
Guaranteed Obligations
 
Obligations includes, without limitation, any and all obligations of Borrower to Agent or the Lenders for reasonable attorneys' fees and all other costs and expenses incurred by Agent in the collection or enforcement of any Obligations of Borrower to Agent or the Lenders.
     3. . The obligations hereunder are independent of the obligations of Borrower or any other guarantor, and a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against Guarantor whether action is brought against Borrower or any other guarantor or whether Borrower or any other guarantor be joined in any such action or actions. Anyone executing this Guaranty shall be bound by its terms without regard to execution by anyone else.
Obligations Independent
     4. . Guarantor authorizes Agent, without notice or demand and without affecting its liability hereunder, from time to time to:
Rights of Agent
     (a) renew, compromise, extend, accelerate, or otherwise change the time for payment, or otherwise change the terms, of the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof, including increase or decrease of the rate of interest thereon, or otherwise change the terms of any Loan Documents;
     (b) receive and hold security for the payment of this Guaranty or any Guaranteed Obligations and exchange, enforce, waive, release, fail to perfect, sell, or otherwise dispose of any such security;
     (c) apply such security and direct the order or manner of sale thereof as Agent in its discretion may determine;
     (d) release or substitute any Guarantor or any one or more of any endorsers or other guarantors of any of the Guaranteed Obligations; and
     (e) permit the Guaranteed Obligations to exceed Guarantor's liability under this Guaranty, and Guarantor agrees that any amounts received by Agent from any source other than Guarantor shall be deemed to be applied first to any portion of the Guaranteed Obligations not guaranteed by Guarantor.
     5. . Guarantor agrees that until the Guaranteed Obligations has been paid in full and any commitments of Agent or facilities provided by Agent with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations have been terminated, Guarantor shall not be released by or because of the taking, or failure to take, any action that might in any manner or to any extent vary the risks of Guarantor under this Guaranty or that, but for this section, might discharge or otherwise reduce, limit, or modify Guarantor's obligations under this Guaranty. Guarantor waives and surrenders any defense to any liability under this Guaranty based upon any such action, including but not limited to any action of Agent described in the immediately preceding section of this Guaranty. It is the express intent of Guarantor that Guarantor's obligations under this Guaranty are and shall be absolute and unconditional.
Guaranty to be Absolute
     6. . Guarantor waives:
Guarantor's Waivers of Certain Rights and Certain Defenses
2
 
     (a) any right to require Agent to proceed against Borrower, proceed against or exhaust any security for the Guaranteed Obligations, or pursue any other remedy in Agent's power whatsoever;
     (b) any defense arising by reason of any disability or other defense of Borrower or a Guarantor, or the cessation from any cause whatsoever of the liability of Borrower or a Guarantor;
     (c) any defense based on any claim that Guarantor's obligations exceed or are more burdensome than those of Borrower; and
     (d) the benefit of any statute of limitations affecting Guarantor's liability hereunder.
No provision or waiver in this Guaranty shall be construed as limiting the generality of any other waiver contained in this Guaranty.
     7. . Until the Guaranteed Obligations has been paid in full and any commitments of Agent or facilities provided by Agent with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations have been terminated, even though the Guaranteed Obligations may be in excess of Guarantor's liability hereunder, Guarantor waives to the extent permitted by applicable law any right of subrogation, reimbursement, indemnification, and contribution (contractual, statutory, or otherwise) including, without limitation, any claim or right of subrogation under the Bankruptcy Code (Title 11, United States Code) or any successor statute, arising from the existence or performance of this Guaranty, and Guarantor waives to the extent permitted by applicable law any right to enforce any remedy that Agent now has or may hereafter have against Borrower, and waives any benefit of, and any right to participate in, any security now or hereafter held by Agent.
Waiver of Subrogation
     8. . Guarantor waives all presentments, demands for performance, notices of nonperformance, protests, notices of protest, notices of dishonor, notices of intent to accelerate, notices of acceleration, notices of any suit or any other action against Borrower or any other person, any other notices to any party liable on any Loan Document (including Guarantor), notices of acceptance of this Guaranty, notices of the existence, creation, or incurring of new or additional Guaranteed Obligations to which this Guaranty applies or any other Guaranteed Obligations of Borrower to Agent, and notices of any fact that might increase Guarantor's risk.
Waiver of Notices
     9. .
Waivers of Other Rights and Defenses
     (a) Guarantor waives any rights and defenses that are or may become available to Guarantor by reason of Sections 2787 to 2855, inclusive, of the California Civil Code.
     (b) Guarantor waives all rights and defenses that Guarantor may have because any of the Guaranteed Obligations is secured by real property. This means, among other things: (i) Agent may collect from Guarantor without first foreclosing on any real or personal property collateral pledged by Borrower; and (ii) if Agent forecloses on any real
3
 
property collateral pledged by Borrower: (1) the amount of the Guaranteed Obligations may be reduced only by the price for which that collateral is sold at the foreclosure sale, even if the collateral is worth more than the sale price, and (2) Agent may collect from Guarantor even if Agent, by foreclosing on the real property collateral, has destroyed any right Guarantor may have to collect from Borrower. This is an unconditional and irrevocable waiver of any rights and defenses Guarantor may have because any of the Guaranteed Obligations is secured by real property. These rights and defenses include, but are not limited to, any rights or defenses based upon Section 580a, 580b, 580d, or 726 of the California Code of Civil Procedure.
     (c) Guarantor waives any right or defense it may have at law or equity, including California Code of Civil Procedure Section 580a, to a fair market value hearing or action to determine a deficiency judgment after a foreclosure.
     10. . Any obligations of Borrower to Guarantor, now or hereafter existing, including but not limited to any obligations to Guarantor as subrogee of Agent or resulting from Guarantor's performance under this Guaranty, are hereby subordinated to the Guaranteed Obligations. In addition to Guarantor's waiver of any right of subrogation as set forth in this Guaranty with respect to any obligations of Borrower to Guarantor as subrogee of Agent, Guarantor agrees that, if Agent so requests, following and during the continuance of an Event of Default, Guarantor shall not demand, take, or receive from Borrower, by setoff or in any other manner, payment of any other obligations of Borrower to Guarantor until the Guaranteed Obligations has been paid in full and any commitments of Agent or facilities provided by Agent with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations have been terminated. If any payments are received by Guarantor in violation of such waiver or agreement, such payments shall be received by Guarantor as trustee for Agent and shall be paid over to Agent on account of the Guaranteed Obligations, but without reducing or affecting in any manner the liability of Guarantor under the other provisions of this Guaranty. Any security interest, lien, or other encumbrance that Guarantor may now or hereafter have on any property of Borrower is hereby subordinated to any security interest, lien, or other encumbrance that Agent may have on any such property.
Subordination
     11. . If this Guaranty is revoked, returned, or canceled, and subsequently any payment or transfer of any interest in property by Borrower to Agent is rescinded or must be returned by Agent to Borrower, this Guaranty shall be reinstated with respect to any such payment or transfer, regardless of any such prior revocation, return, or cancellation.
Reinstatement of Guaranty
     12. . In the event that acceleration of the time for payment of any of the Guaranteed Obligations is stayed upon the insolvency, bankruptcy, or reorganization of Borrower or otherwise, all such Guaranteed Obligations guaranteed by Guarantor shall nonetheless be payable by Guarantor immediately if requested by Agent.
Stay of Acceleration
     13. . Guarantor acknowledges and agrees that it has made such independent examination, review, and investigation of the Loan Documents as Guarantor deems necessary and appropriate, including, without limitation, any covenants pertaining to Guarantor contained therein, and shall have sole responsibility to obtain from
Information Relating to Borrower
4
 
Borrower any information required by Guarantor about any modifications thereto. Guarantor further acknowledges and agrees that it shall have the sole responsibility for, and has adequate means of, obtaining from Borrower such information concerning Borrower's financial condition or business operations as Guarantor may require, and that Agent has no duty, and Guarantor is not relying on Agent, at any time to disclose to Guarantor any information relating to the business operations or financial condition of Borrower.
     14. . Where Borrower is a corporation, partnership, or limited liability company, it is not necessary for Agent to inquire into the powers of Borrower or of the officers, directors, partners, members, managers, or agents acting or purporting to act on its behalf, and any Guaranteed Obligations made or created in reliance upon the professed exercise of such powers shall be guaranteed hereunder, subject to any limitations on Guarantor's liability set forth herein.
Borrower's Authorization
     15. . Guarantor authorizes Agent to verify or check any information given by Guarantor to Agent, check Guarantor's credit references, verify employment, and obtain credit reports. Guarantor acknowledges and agrees that the authorizations provided in this section apply to any individual general partner of Guarantor and to Guarantor's spouse and any such general partner's spouse if Guarantor or such general partner is married and lives in a community property state.
Information Relating to Guarantor
     16. .
Foreign Currency
     (a) If any claim arising under or related to this Guaranty is reduced to judgment denominated in a currency (the "") other than the currency or currencies in which the Guaranteed Obligations is denominated (individually, an ""), the judgment shall be for the equivalent in the Judgment Currency of the amount of the claim denominated in each Obligation Currency included in the judgment, determined as of the date of judgment. The equivalent of any Obligation Currency amount in any Judgment Currency shall be calculated at the spot rate for the purchase of the Obligation Currency with the Judgment Currency quoted by Agent in the place of Agent's choice at or about 8:00 a.m. on the date for determination specified above. Guarantor shall indemnify Agent and hold Agent harmless from and against all loss or damage resulting from any change in exchange rates between the date any claim is reduced to judgment and the date of payment thereof by Guarantor.
Judgment Currency
Obligation Currency
     (b) The obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any acts of any governmental authority affecting Borrower including, without limitation, any restrictions on the conversion of currency or repatriation or control of funds or any total or partial expropriation of Borrower's property, or by economic, political, regulatory, or other events in the countries where Borrower is located. If Agent so notifies Guarantor in writing, at Agent's sole and absolute discretion, payments under this Guaranty shall be made in the U.S. Dollar equivalent of any Guaranteed Obligations that is denominated in an Obligation Currency, determined as of the date payment is made.
     17. . Any Guarantor that is a business entity shall not enter into any consolidation, merger, or other combination unless Guarantor is the surviving business entity or
Change of Status
5
 
as otherwise permitted by Section 7.04 of the Credit Agreement. Guarantor shall not change its legal structure unless (a) Guarantor notifies Agent in advance and (b) all Guarantor's obligations under this Guaranty are assumed by the new business entity.
     18. . If Guarantor fails to fulfill its duty to pay all Guaranteed Obligations guaranteed hereunder, Agent shall have all of the remedies of a creditor and, to the extent applicable, of a secured party, under all applicable law. Without limiting the foregoing, Agent may, at its option and without notice or demand:
Remedies
     (a) declare any Guaranteed Obligations due and payable at once;
     (b) take possession of any collateral pledged by Borrower or Guarantor, wherever located, and sell, resell, assign, transfer, and deliver all or any part of the collateral at any public or private sale or otherwise dispose of any or all of the collateral in its then condition, for cash or on credit or for future delivery, and in connection therewith Agent may impose reasonable conditions upon any such sale. Further, Agent, unless prohibited by law the provisions of which cannot be waived, may purchase all or any part of the collateral to be sold, free from and discharged of all trusts, claims, rights of redemption and equities of Borrower or Guarantor whatsoever. Guarantor acknowledges and agrees that the sale of any collateral through any nationally recognized broker-dealer, investment banker, or any other method common in the securities industry shall be deemed a commercially reasonable sale under the Uniform Commercial Code or any other equivalent statute or federal law, and expressly waives notice thereof except as provided herein; and
     (c) set off against any or all liabilities of Guarantor all money owed by Agent or any of its agents or affiliates in any capacity to Guarantor, whether or not due, and also set off against all other liabilities of Guarantor to Agent all money owed by Agent in any capacity to Guarantor. If exercised by Agent, Agent shall be deemed to have exercised such right of setoff and to have made a charge against any such money immediately upon the occurrence of such default although made or entered on the books subsequent thereto.
     19. . All notices required under this Guaranty shall be personally delivered or sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, or by overnight courier, to Agent at the address determined under the notice provisions of the Credit Agreement and to the Guarantor at the address listed on the signature page of this Guaranty, or sent by facsimile to the fax numbers listed on the signature page, or to such other addresses as Agent and Guarantor may specify from time to time in writing. Notices sent by (a) first class mail shall be deemed delivered on the earlier of actual receipt or on the fourth business day after deposit in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid, (b) overnight courier shall be deemed delivered on the next business day, and (c) telecopy shall be deemed delivered when transmitted.
Notices
     20. . This Guaranty (a) binds Guarantor and Guarantor's executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, provided that Guarantor may not assign its rights or obligations under this Guaranty without the prior written consent of Agent, and (b) inures to the benefit of Agent and Agent's indorsees, successors, and assigns. Agent may, without notice to Guarantor and without affecting Guarantor's obligations hereunder, sell, assign,
Successors and Assigns
6
 
grant participations in, or otherwise transfer to any other person, firm, or corporation the Guaranteed Obligations and this Guaranty, in whole or in part. Guarantor agrees that Agent may disclose to any assignee or purchaser, or any prospective assignee or purchaser, of all or part of the Guaranteed Obligations any and all information in Agent's possession concerning Guarantor, this Guaranty, and any security for this Guaranty.
     21. . No provision of this Guaranty may be amended or waived except in writing. No failure by Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any of its rights, remedies, or powers shall operate as a waiver thereof, and no single or partial exercise of any such right, remedy, or power shall preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, or power. The unenforceability or invalidity of any provision of this Guaranty shall not affect the enforceability or validity of any other provision of this Guaranty.
Amendments, Waivers, and Severability
     22. . Guarantor agrees to pay all reasonable attorneys' fees, including allocated costs of Agent's in-house counsel to the extent permitted by applicable law, and all other costs and expenses that may be incurred by Agent (a) in the enforcement of this Guaranty or (b) in the preservation, protection, or enforcement of any rights of Agent in any case commenced by or against Guarantor or Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code (Title 11, United States Code) or any similar or successor statute.
Costs and Expenses
     23. . This Guaranty shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with federal law and the law of the State of California. Jurisdiction and venue for any action or proceeding to enforce this Guaranty shall be the forum appropriate for such action or proceeding against Borrower, to which jurisdiction Guarantor irrevocably submits and to which venue Guarantor waives to the fullest extent permitted by law any defense asserting an inconvenient forum in connection therewith. It is provided, however, that if Guarantor owns property in another state, notwithstanding that the forum for enforcement action is elsewhere, Agent may commence a collection proceeding in any state in which Guarantor owns property for the purpose of enforcing provisional remedies against such property. Service of process by Agent in connection with such action or proceeding shall be binding on Guarantor if sent to Guarantor by registered or certified mail at its address specified below.
Governing Law and Jurisdiction
     24.  If any action or proceeding is filed in a court of the State of California by or against any party hereto in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Guaranty or any other Loan Document, (a) the court shall, and is hereby directed to, make a general reference pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 638 to a referee (who shall be a single active or retired judge) to hear and determine all of the issues in such action or proceeding (whether of fact or of law) and to report a statement of decision, that at the option of any party to such proceeding, any such issues pertaining to a "provisional remedy" as defined in California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.8 shall be heard and determined by the court, and (b) without limiting the generality of , the Guarantor shall be solely responsible to pay all fees and expenses of any referee appointed in such action or proceeding.
California Judicial Reference.
provided
Section 21
7
 
     25. . BY SIGNING THIS DOCUMENT EACH PARTY REPRESENTS AND AGREES THAT: (A) THIS DOCUMENT REPRESENTS THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN PARTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF, (B) THIS DOCUMENT SUPERSEDES ANY COMMITMENT LETTER, TERM SHEET, OR OTHER WRITTEN OUTLINE OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS RELATING TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF, UNLESS SUCH COMMITMENT LETTER, TERM SHEET, OR OTHER WRITTEN OUTLINE OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS EXPRESSLY PROVIDES TO THE CONTRARY, (C) THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES, AND (D) THIS DOCUMENT MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF ANY PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OR UNDERSTANDINGS OF THE PARTIES.
Final Agreement
     26. . If there is more than one Guarantor signatory hereto, the entities who are Guarantors and their respective successors and assigns shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of the Guaranteed Obligations and the expenses and other amounts required to be reimbursed to Agent described in Section 22, notwithstanding any relationship or contract of co-obligation by or among such entities and individuals or their successors and assigns. The provisions of this Guaranty shall apply to each of such entities as if each was the sole Guarantor under this Guaranty and each of the other entities and individuals had executed separate guaranties.
Joint and Several Liability
     27. . Guarantor acknowledges that the rights and responsibilities of Agent under this Guaranty with respect to any action taken by Agent or the exercise or non-exercise by Agent of any right or remedy provided for herein or resulting or arising out of this Guaranty shall, as between Agent and Lenders, be governed by the Credit Agreement and by such other agreements with respect thereto as may exist from time to time among them, but, as between Agent and Guarantor, Agent shall be conclusively presumed to be acting as agent for Lenders with full and valid authority so to act or refrain from acting, and Guarantor shall not be under any obligation, or entitlement, to make any inquiry respecting such authority.
Authority of Administrative Agent
8
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Guarantor has executed this Unconditional Guaranty by duly authorized officer(s) as of March 3, 2008.

 
Exhibit 10.113
EXECUTION VERSION
     SECURITY AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") dated as of March 3, 2008 between , a Delaware corporation (""), and , individually and in its capacity as Administrative Agent for the Lenders under the Credit Agreement referred to below ("").
Lam Research Corporation
Debtor
ABN AMRO Bank N.V.
Secured Party
     WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of the date hereof by and among Debtor, Secured Party and the Lenders signatory thereto (including all annexes, exhibits and schedules thereto, as from time to time amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified, the ""), Lenders have agreed to make term loans (the "") to Debtor;
Credit Agreement
Loans
     WHEREAS, in order to induce Secured Party and Lenders to enter into the Credit Agreement and other Loan Documents and to induce Lenders to make the Loans as provided for in the Credit Agreement, Debtor has agreed to grant a continuing Lien on the Collateral (as hereinafter defined) to secure the Obligations;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants herein contained and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     1. .
Defined Terms
     (a) All capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement. All other terms contained in this Agreement, unless the context indicates otherwise, have the meanings provided for by the UCC to the extent the same are used or defined therein.
     2. . Debtor hereby assigns and grants to Secured Party a security interest in the following described property now or hereafter owned by Debtor (""):
The Security
Collateral
     (a) All accounts, contract rights, chattel paper, instruments, letter of credit rights, payment intangibles and general intangibles, including all amounts due to Debtor from a factor; rights to payment of money from Secured Party under any Swap Contract; and all returned or repossessed goods which, on sale or lease, resulted in an account or chattel paper.
     (b) All inventory, including all materials, work in process and finished goods.
     (c) All machinery, furniture, fixtures and other equipment of every type.
     (d) All instruments, notes, chattel paper and documents of every type, and all liens, security agreements, leases and other contracts securing or otherwise relating to the foregoing.
 
     (e) All general intangibles, but excluding, (i) all patents, and all unpatented or unpatentable inventions; (ii) all trademarks, service marks, and trade names; (iii) all copyrights and literary rights; (iv) all mask works of semiconductor chip products; (v) all trade secrets, proprietary information, customer lists, manufacturing, engineering and production plans, drawings, specifications, processes and systems; (vi) any other IP Rights; and (vii) all licenses to any of the foregoing except as set forth in Section 7(j). The Collateral shall include all good will connected with or symbolized by any of such general intangibles; all contract rights, documents, applications, licenses, materials and other matters related to such general intangibles; all tangible property embodying or incorporating any such general intangibles; all chattel paper and instruments relating to such general intangibles.
     (f) All negotiable and nonnegotiable documents of title covering any Collateral.
     (g) All accessions, attachments and other additions to the Collateral, and all tools, parts and equipment used in connection with the Collateral.
     (h) All substitutes or replacements for any Collateral, all cash or non-cash proceeds, product, rents and profits of any Collateral, all income, benefits and property receivable on account of the Collateral, all rights under warranties and insurance contracts, letters of credit, guaranties or other supporting obligations covering the Collateral, and any causes of action relating to the Collateral.
     (i) All books and records pertaining to any Collateral, including but not limited to any computer-readable memory and any computer hardware or software necessary to process such memory ("").
Books and Records
     3. . The Collateral secures all Secured Obligations.
Secured Obligations
     4. . Debtor represents, covenants and warrants that unless compliance is waived by Secured Party in writing:
Debtor's Covenants
     (a) Debtor will properly preserve the Collateral; defend the Collateral against any adverse claims and demands; and keep accurate Books and Records.
     (b) Debtor's chief executive office is located in the state specified on the signature page hereof. In addition, Debtor is incorporated in or organized under the laws of the state specified on such signature page. Debtor shall give Secured Party at least thirty (30) days notice before changing its chief executive office or state of incorporation or organization. Debtor will notify Secured Party in writing prior to any change in the location of any Collateral, including the Books and Records.
     (c) Debtor will notify Secured Party in writing prior to any change in Debtor's name, identity or business structure.
     (d) Unless otherwise agreed, Debtor has not granted and will not grant any security interest in any of the Collateral except to Secured Party, and will keep the Collateral free of all liens, claims, security interests and encumbrances of any kind or nature except the security interest of Secured Party.
 
     (e) Debtor will promptly notify Secured Party in writing of any event which materially adversely affects the value of the Collateral, the ability of Debtor or Secured Party to dispose of the Collateral, or the rights and remedies of Secured Party in relation thereto, including, but not limited to, the levy of any legal process against any Collateral and the adoption of any marketing order, arrangement or procedure affecting the Collateral, whether governmental or otherwise.
     (f) Debtor shall pay all costs necessary to preserve, defend, enforce and collect the Collateral, including but not limited to taxes, assessments, insurance premiums, repairs, rent, storage costs and expenses of sales, and any costs to perfect Secured Party's security interest (collectively, the "Collateral Costs"). Without waiving Debtor's default for failure to make any such payment, Secured Party at its option may pay any such Collateral Costs, and discharge encumbrances on the Collateral, and such Collateral Costs payments shall be a part of the Secured Obligations and bear interest at the rate set out in the Secured Obligations. Debtor agrees to reimburse Secured Party on demand for any Collateral Costs so incurred.
     (g) Until Secured Party exercises its rights to make collection, Debtor will diligently collect all Collateral.
     (h) If any Collateral is or becomes the subject of any registration certificate, certificate of deposit or negotiable document of title, including any warehouse receipt or bill of lading, Debtor shall immediately deliver such document to Secured Party, together with any necessary endorsements.
     (i) Debtor will not sell, lease, agree to sell or lease, or otherwise dispose of any Collateral except with the prior written consent of Secured Party; provided, however, that Debtor may dispose of Collateral to the extent permitted by of the Credit Agreement.
Section 7.05
     (j) Debtor will maintain and keep in force insurance covering the Collateral against fire and extended coverages, to the extent that any Collateral is of a type which can be so insured. Such insurance shall require losses to be paid on a replacement cost basis, be issued by insurance companies acceptable to Secured Party and include a loss payable endorsement in favor of Secured Party in a form acceptable to Secured Party. Upon the request of Secured Party, Debtor will deliver to the bank a copy of each insurance policy, or, if permitted by Secured Party, a certificate of insurance listing all insurance in force.
     (k) Debtor will not attach any Collateral to any real property or fixture in a manner which might cause such Collateral to become a part thereof unless Debtor first obtains the written consent of any owner, holder of any lien on the real property or fixture, or other person having an interest in such property to the removal by Secured Party of the Collateral from such real property or fixture. Such written consent shall be in form and substance acceptable to Secured Party and shall provide that Secured Party has no liability to such owner, holder of any lien, or any other person.
     5. . Debtor agrees that Secured Party may at its option at any time, whether or not Debtor is in default (except as otherwise noted):
Additional Optional Requirements
 
     (a) Require Debtor to deliver to Secured Party (i) copies of or extracts from the Books and Records, and (ii) information on any contracts or other matters affecting the Collateral.
     (b) Subject to of the Credit Agreement, examine the Collateral, including the Books and Records, and make copies of or extracts from the Books and Records, and for such purposes enter at any reasonable time upon the property where any Collateral or any Books and Records are located.
Section 6.10
     (c) Require Debtor to deliver to Secured Party any instruments, chattel paper or letters of credit which are part of the Collateral, and to assign to Secured Party the proceeds of any such letters of credit.
     (d) Following and during the continuation of any Event of Default, notify any account debtors or any other persons of Secured Party's interest in the Collateral.
     6. . Any one or more of the following shall be a default hereunder:
Defaults
     (a) An Event of Default has occurred under the Credit Agreement.
     (b) Secured Party fails to have an enforceable first lien (except for any prior liens to which Secured Party has consented in writing) on or security interest in the Collateral.
     (c) Any involuntary lien of any kind or character attaches to any Collateral, except for liens for taxes not yet due or otherwise permitted under the Credit Agreement.
     7. . In the event of any Event of Default, Secured Party may do any one or more of the following:
Secured Party's Remedies After an Event of Default
     (a) Declare any Secured Obligations immediately due and payable, without notice or demand.
     (b) Enforce the security interest given hereunder pursuant to the UCC and any other applicable law.
     (c) Require Debtor to obtain Secured Party's prior written consent to any sale, lease, agreement to sell or lease, or other disposition of any Collateral consisting of inventory except in the ordinary course of business at a fair market price.
     (d) Require Debtor to segregate all collections and proceeds of the Collateral so that they are capable of identification and deliver daily such collections and proceeds to Secured Party in kind.
     (e) Require Debtor to direct all account debtors to forward all payments and proceeds of the Collateral to a post office box under Secured Party's exclusive control.
     (f) Require Debtor to assemble the Collateral, including the Books and Records, and make them available to Secured Party at a place designated by Secured Party.
 
     (g) Enter upon the property where any Collateral, including any Books and Records, are located and take possession of such Collateral and such Books and Records, and use such property (including any buildings and facilities) and any of Debtor's equipment, if Secured Party deems such use necessary or advisable in order to take possession of, hold, preserve, process, assemble, prepare for sale or lease, market for sale or lease, sell or lease, or otherwise dispose of, any Collateral.
     (h) Demand and collect any payments on and proceeds of the Collateral. In connection therewith Debtor irrevocably authorizes Secured Party to endorse or sign Debtor's name on all checks, drafts, collections, receipts and other documents, and to take possession of and open the mail addressed to Debtor and remove therefrom any payments and proceeds of the Collateral.
     (i) Grant extensions and compromise or settle claims with respect to the Collateral for less than face value, all without prior notice to Debtor.
     (j) Use or transfer any of Debtor's rights and interests in any Intellectual Property now owned or hereafter acquired by Debtor, if Secured Party deems such use or transfer necessary or advisable in order to take possession of, hold, preserve, process, assemble, prepare for sale or lease, market for sale or lease, sell or lease, or otherwise dispose of, any Collateral. Debtor agrees that any such use or transfer shall be without any additional consideration to Debtor, but subject to all terms, conditions and limitations, if any, applicable thereto. As used in this section, "" includes, but is not limited to, all trade secrets, computer software, service marks, trademarks, trade names, trade styles, copyrights, patents, applications for any of the foregoing, customer lists, working drawings, instructional manuals, and rights in processes for technical manufacturing, packaging and labeling, in which Debtor has any right or interest, whether by ownership, license, contract or otherwise.
Intellectual Property
     (k) Have a receiver appointed by any court of competent jurisdiction to take possession of the Collateral. Debtor hereby consents to the appointment of such a receiver and agrees not to oppose any such appointment.
     (l) Take such measures as Secured Party may deem necessary or advisable to take possession of, hold, preserve, process, assemble, insure, prepare for sale or lease, market for sale or lease, sell or lease, or otherwise dispose of, any Collateral, and Debtor hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints Secured Party as Debtor's attorney-in-fact to perform all acts and execute all documents in connection therewith.
     (m) Without notice or demand to Debtor, set off and apply against any and all of the Secured Obligations any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) and any other indebtedness, at any time held or owing by Secured Party or any of Secured Party's agents or affiliates to or for the credit of the account of Debtor or any guarantor or endorser of Debtor's Secured Obligations.
     (n) Exercise any other remedies available to Secured Party at law or in equity.
     (o) Secured Party will give the Debtor, on a substantially concurrent basis, a copy of any notice to a third party with regard to collection of, or other steps to realize on, the Collateral.
 
With respect to the bailee letter dated as of the date hereof from Debtor to Menlo Logistics Inc., the Secured Party may send to Menlo Logistics Inc. the second notice referred to therein no earlier than five (5) days after delivery of the first notice referred to therein.
     8. .
MISCELLANEOUS
     (a) Any waiver, express or implied, of any provision hereunder and any delay or failure by Secured Party to enforce any provision shall not preclude Secured Party from enforcing any such provision thereafter.
     (b) Debtor shall, at the request of Secured Party (and on a basis consistent with the Credit Agreement), execute such other agreements, documents, instruments, or financing statements in connection with this Agreement as Secured Party may reasonably deem necessary.
     (c) All notes, security agreements, subordination agreements and other documents executed by Debtor or furnished to Secured Party in connection with this Agreement must be in form and substance satisfactory to Secured Party.
     (d) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed according to the laws of the State of California, to the jurisdiction of which the parties hereto submit.
     (e) All rights and remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies otherwise provided by law. Any single or partial exercise of any right or remedy shall not preclude the further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or remedy.
     (f) All terms not defined herein are used as set forth in the UCC.
     (g) In the event of any action by Secured Party to enforce this Agreement or to protect the security interest of Secured Party in the Collateral, or to take possession of, hold, preserve, process, assemble, insure, prepare for sale or lease, market for sale or lease, sell or lease, or otherwise dispose of, any Collateral, Debtor agrees to pay immediately the costs and expenses thereof, together with reasonable attorney's fees and allocated costs for in-house legal services to the extent permitted by law.
     (h) In the event Secured Party seeks to take possession of any or all of the Collateral by judicial process, Debtor hereby irrevocably waives any bonds and any surety or security relating thereto that may be required by applicable law as an incident to such possession, and waives any demand for possession prior to the commencement of any such suit or action.
     (i) This Agreement shall constitute a continuing agreement, applying to all future as well as existing transactions, whether or not of the character contemplated at the date of this Agreement, and if all transactions between Secured Party and Debtor shall be closed at any time, shall be equally applicable to any new transactions thereafter.
     (j) Secured Party's rights hereunder shall inure to the benefit of its successors and assigns. In the event of any assignment or transfer by Secured Party of any of the Secured Obligations or the Collateral, Secured Party thereafter shall be fully discharged from any
 
responsibility with respect to the Collateral so assigned or transferred, but Secured Party shall retain all rights and powers hereby given with respect to any of the Secured Obligations or the Collateral not so assigned or transferred. All representations, warranties and agreements of Debtor if more than one are joint and several and all shall be binding upon the personal representatives, heirs, successors and assigns of Debtor.
     9. 
FINAL AGREEMENT
. BY SIGNING THIS DOCUMENT EACH PARTY REPRESENTS AND AGREES THAT: (A) THIS DOCUMENT REPRESENTS THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF, (B) THIS DOCUMENT SUPERSEDES ANY COMMITMENT LETTER, TERM SHEET, OR OTHER WRITTEN OUTLINE OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS RELATING TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF, UNLESS SUCH COMMITMENT LETTER, TERM SHEET, OR OTHER WRITTEN OUTLINE OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS EXPRESSLY PROVIDES TO THE CONTRARY, (C) THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES, AND (D) THIS DOCUMENT MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF ANY PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OR UNDERSTANDINGS OF THE PARTIES.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Security Agreement by their duly authorized officer(s) as of the date and year first above written, intending to be legally bound.
Debtor's Location (chief executive office): 4650 Cushing Parkway Fremont, CA 94538
Debtor's state of incorporation: Delaware

 
Exhibit 10.114
EXECUTION VERSION
     SECURITY AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") dated as of March 3, 2008 between , a Delaware corporation (""), and , individually and in its capacity as Administrative Agent for the Lenders under the Credit Agreement referred to below ("").
Bullen Semiconductor Corp.
Debtor
ABN AMRO Bank N.V.
Secured Party
     WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of the date hereof by and among Debtor, Secured Party and the Lenders signatory thereto (including all annexes, exhibits and schedules thereto, as from time to time amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified, the ""), Lenders have agreed to make term loans (the "") to Debtor;
Credit Agreement
Loans
     WHEREAS, in order to induce Secured Party and Lenders to enter into the Credit Agreement and other Loan Documents and to induce Lenders to make the Loans as provided for in the Credit Agreement, Debtor has agreed to grant a continuing Lien on the Collateral (as hereinafter defined) to secure the Obligations;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants herein contained and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     1. .
Defined Terms
     (a) All capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement. All other terms contained in this Agreement, unless the context indicates otherwise, have the meanings provided for by the UCC to the extent the same are used or defined therein.
     2. . Debtor hereby assigns and grants to Secured Party a security interest in the following described property now or hereafter owned by Debtor (""):
The Security
Collateral
     (a) All accounts, contract rights, chattel paper, instruments, letter of credit rights, payment intangibles and general intangibles, including all amounts due to Debtor from a factor; rights to payment of money from Secured Party under any Swap Contract; and all returned or repossessed goods which, on sale or lease, resulted in an account or chattel paper.
     (b) All inventory, including all materials, work in process and finished goods.
     (c) All machinery, furniture, fixtures and other equipment of every type.
     (d) All instruments, notes, chattel paper and documents of every type, and all liens, security agreements, leases and other contracts securing or otherwise relating to the foregoing.
 
     (e) All general intangibles, but excluding, (i) all patents, and all unpatented or unpatentable inventions; (ii) all trademarks, service marks, and trade names; (iii) all copyrights and literary rights; (iv) all mask works of semiconductor chip products; (v) all trade secrets, proprietary information, customer lists, manufacturing, engineering and production plans, drawings, specifications, processes and systems; (vi) any other IP Rights; and (vii) all licenses to any of the foregoing except as set forth in Section 7(j). The Collateral shall include all good will connected with or symbolized by any of such general intangibles; all contract rights, documents, applications, licenses, materials and other matters related to such general intangibles; all tangible property embodying or incorporating any such general intangibles; all chattel paper and instruments relating to such general intangibles.
     (f) All negotiable and nonnegotiable documents of title covering any Collateral.
     (g) All accessions, attachments and other additions to the Collateral, and all tools, parts and equipment used in connection with the Collateral.
     (h) All substitutes or replacements for any Collateral, all cash or non-cash proceeds, product, rents and profits of any Collateral, all income, benefits and property receivable on account of the Collateral, all rights under warranties and insurance contracts, letters of credit, guaranties or other supporting obligations covering the Collateral, and any causes of action relating to the Collateral.
     (i) All books and records pertaining to any Collateral, including but not limited to any computer-readable memory and any computer hardware or software necessary to process such memory ("").
Books and Records
     3. . The Collateral secures all Secured Obligations.
Secured Obligations
     4. . Debtor represents, covenants and warrants that unless compliance is waived by Secured Party in writing:
Debtor's Covenants
     (a) Debtor will properly preserve the Collateral; defend the Collateral against any adverse claims and demands; and keep accurate Books and Records.
     (b) Debtor's chief executive office is located in the state specified on the signature page hereof. In addition, Debtor is incorporated in or organized under the laws of the state specified on such signature page. Debtor shall give Secured Party at least thirty (30) days notice before changing its chief executive office or state of incorporation or organization. Debtor will notify Secured Party in writing prior to any change in the location of any Collateral, including the Books and Records.
     (c) Debtor will notify Secured Party in writing prior to any change in Debtor's name, identity or business structure.
     (d) Unless otherwise agreed, Debtor has not granted and will not grant any security interest in any of the Collateral except to Secured Party, and will keep the Collateral free of all liens, claims, security interests and encumbrances of any kind or nature except the security interest of Secured Party.
 
     (e) Debtor will promptly notify Secured Party in writing of any event which materially adversely affects the value of the Collateral, the ability of Debtor or Secured Party to dispose of the Collateral, or the rights and remedies of Secured Party in relation thereto, including, but not limited to, the levy of any legal process against any Collateral and the adoption of any marketing order, arrangement or procedure affecting the Collateral, whether governmental or otherwise.
     (f) Debtor shall pay all costs necessary to preserve, defend, enforce and collect the Collateral, including but not limited to taxes, assessments, insurance premiums, repairs, rent, storage costs and expenses of sales, and any costs to perfect Secured Party's security interest (collectively, the "Collateral Costs"). Without waiving Debtor's default for failure to make any such payment, Secured Party at its option may pay any such Collateral Costs, and discharge encumbrances on the Collateral, and such Collateral Costs payments shall be a part of the Secured Obligations and bear interest at the rate set out in the Secured Obligations. Debtor agrees to reimburse Secured Party on demand for any Collateral Costs so incurred.
     (g) Until Secured Party exercises its rights to make collection, Debtor will diligently collect all Collateral.
     (h) If any Collateral is or becomes the subject of any registration certificate, certificate of deposit or negotiable document of title, including any warehouse receipt or bill of lading, Debtor shall immediately deliver such document to Secured Party, together with any necessary endorsements.
     (i) Debtor will not sell, lease, agree to sell or lease, or otherwise dispose of any Collateral except with the prior written consent of Secured Party; provided, however, that Debtor may dispose of Collateral to the extent permitted by of the Credit Agreement.
Section 7.05
     (j) Debtor will maintain and keep in force insurance covering the Collateral against fire and extended coverages, to the extent that any Collateral is of a type which can be so insured. Such insurance shall require losses to be paid on a replacement cost basis, be issued by insurance companies acceptable to Secured Party and include a loss payable endorsement in favor of Secured Party in a form acceptable to Secured Party. Upon the request of Secured Party, Debtor will deliver to the bank a copy of each insurance policy, or, if permitted by Secured Party, a certificate of insurance listing all insurance in force.
     (k) Debtor will not attach any Collateral to any real property or fixture in a manner which might cause such Collateral to become a part thereof unless Debtor first obtains the written consent of any owner, holder of any lien on the real property or fixture, or other person having an interest in such property to the removal by Secured Party of the Collateral from such real property or fixture. Such written consent shall be in form and substance acceptable to Secured Party and shall provide that Secured Party has no liability to such owner, holder of any lien, or any other person.
     5. . Debtor agrees that Secured Party may at its option at any time, whether or not Debtor is in default (except as otherwise noted):
Additional Optional Requirements
 
     (a) Require Debtor to deliver to Secured Party (i) copies of or extracts from the Books and Records, and (ii) information on any contracts or other matters affecting the Collateral.
     (b) Subject to of the Credit Agreement, examine the Collateral, including the Books and Records, and make copies of or extracts from the Books and Records, and for such purposes enter at any reasonable time upon the property where any Collateral or any Books and Records are located.
Section 6.10
     (c) Require Debtor to deliver to Secured Party any instruments, chattel paper or letters of credit which are part of the Collateral, and to assign to Secured Party the proceeds of any such letters of credit.
     (d) Following and during the continuation of any Event of Default, notify any account debtors or any other persons of Secured Party's interest in the Collateral.
     6. . Any one or more of the following shall be a default hereunder:
Defaults
     (a) An Event of Default has occurred under the Credit Agreement.
     (b) Secured Party fails to have an enforceable first lien (except for any prior liens to which Secured Party has consented in writing) on or security interest in the Collateral.
     (c) Any involuntary lien of any kind or character attaches to any Collateral, except for liens for taxes not yet due or otherwise permitted under the Credit Agreement.
     7. . In the event of any Event of Default, Secured Party may do any one or more of the following:
Secured Party's Remedies After an Event of Default
     (a) Declare any Secured Obligations immediately due and payable, without notice or demand.
     (b) Enforce the security interest given hereunder pursuant to the UCC and any other applicable law.
     (c) Require Debtor to obtain Secured Party's prior written consent to any sale, lease, agreement to sell or lease, or other disposition of any Collateral consisting of inventory except in the ordinary course of business at a fair market price.
     (d) Require Debtor to segregate all collections and proceeds of the Collateral so that they are capable of identification and deliver daily such collections and proceeds to Secured Party in kind.
     (e) Require Debtor to direct all account debtors to forward all payments and proceeds of the Collateral to a post office box under Secured Party's exclusive control.
     (f) Require Debtor to assemble the Collateral, including the Books and Records, and make them available to Secured Party at a place designated by Secured Party.
 
     (g) Enter upon the property where any Collateral, including any Books and Records, are located and take possession of such Collateral and such Books and Records, and use such property (including any buildings and facilities) and any of Debtor's equipment, if Secured Party deems such use necessary or advisable in order to take possession of, hold, preserve, process, assemble, prepare for sale or lease, market for sale or lease, sell or lease, or otherwise dispose of, any Collateral.
     (h) Demand and collect any payments on and proceeds of the Collateral. In connection therewith Debtor irrevocably authorizes Secured Party to endorse or sign Debtor's name on all checks, drafts, collections, receipts and other documents, and to take possession of and open the mail addressed to Debtor and remove therefrom any payments and proceeds of the Collateral.
     (i) Grant extensions and compromise or settle claims with respect to the Collateral for less than face value, all without prior notice to Debtor.
     (j) Use or transfer any of Debtor's rights and interests in any Intellectual Property now owned or hereafter acquired by Debtor, if Secured Party deems such use or transfer necessary or advisable in order to take possession of, hold, preserve, process, assemble, prepare for sale or lease, market for sale or lease, sell or lease, or otherwise dispose of, any Collateral. Debtor agrees that any such use or transfer shall be without any additional consideration to Debtor, but subject to all terms, conditions and limitations, if any, applicable thereto. As used in this section, "" includes, but is not limited to, all trade secrets, computer software, service marks, trademarks, trade names, trade styles, copyrights, patents, applications for any of the foregoing, customer lists, working drawings, instructional manuals, and rights in processes for technical manufacturing, packaging and labeling, in which Debtor has any right or interest, whether by ownership, license, contract or otherwise.
Intellectual Property
     (k) Have a receiver appointed by any court of competent jurisdiction to take possession of the Collateral. Debtor hereby consents to the appointment of such a receiver and agrees not to oppose any such appointment.
     (l) Take such measures as Secured Party may deem necessary or advisable to take possession of, hold, preserve, process, assemble, insure, prepare for sale or lease, market for sale or lease, sell or lease, or otherwise dispose of, any Collateral, and Debtor hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints Secured Party as Debtor's attorney-in-fact to perform all acts and execute all documents in connection therewith.
     (m) Without notice or demand to Debtor, set off and apply against any and all of the Secured Obligations any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) and any other indebtedness, at any time held or owing by Secured Party or any of Secured Party's agents or affiliates to or for the credit of the account of Debtor or any guarantor or endorser of Debtor's Secured Obligations.
     (n) Exercise any other remedies available to Secured Party at law or in equity.
     (o) Secured Party will give the Debtor, on a substantially concurrent basis, a copy of any notice to a third party with regard to collection of, or other steps to realize on, the Collateral.
 
With respect to the bailee letter dated as of the date hereof from Debtor to Menlo Logistics Inc., the Secured Party may send to Menlo Logistics Inc. the second notice referred to therein no earlier than five (5) days after delivery of the first notice referred to therein.
     8. .
MISCELLANEOUS
     (a) Any waiver, express or implied, of any provision hereunder and any delay or failure by Secured Party to enforce any provision shall not preclude Secured Party from enforcing any such provision thereafter.
     (b) Debtor shall, at the request of Secured Party (and on a basis consistent with the Credit Agreement), execute such other agreements, documents, instruments, or financing statements in connection with this Agreement as Secured Party may reasonably deem necessary.
     (c) All notes, security agreements, subordination agreements and other documents executed by Debtor or furnished to Secured Party in connection with this Agreement must be in form and substance satisfactory to Secured Party.
     (d) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed according to the laws of the State of California, to the jurisdiction of which the parties hereto submit.
     (e) All rights and remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies otherwise provided by law. Any single or partial exercise of any right or remedy shall not preclude the further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or remedy.
     (f) All terms not defined herein are used as set forth in the UCC.
     (g) In the event of any action by Secured Party to enforce this Agreement or to protect the security interest of Secured Party in the Collateral, or to take possession of, hold, preserve, process, assemble, insure, prepare for sale or lease, market for sale or lease, sell or lease, or otherwise dispose of, any Collateral, Debtor agrees to pay immediately the costs and expenses thereof, together with reasonable attorney's fees and allocated costs for in-house legal services to the extent permitted by law.
     (h) In the event Secured Party seeks to take possession of any or all of the Collateral by judicial process, Debtor hereby irrevocably waives any bonds and any surety or security relating thereto that may be required by applicable law as an incident to such possession, and waives any demand for possession prior to the commencement of any such suit or action.
     (i) This Agreement shall constitute a continuing agreement, applying to all future as well as existing transactions, whether or not of the character contemplated at the date of this Agreement, and if all transactions between Secured Party and Debtor shall be closed at any time, shall be equally applicable to any new transactions thereafter.
     (j) Secured Party's rights hereunder shall inure to the benefit of its successors and assigns. In the event of any assignment or transfer by Secured Party of any of the Secured Obligations or the Collateral, Secured Party thereafter shall be fully discharged from any
 
responsibility with respect to the Collateral so assigned or transferred, but Secured Party shall retain all rights and powers hereby given with respect to any of the Secured Obligations or the Collateral not so assigned or transferred. All representations, warranties and agreements of Debtor if more than one are joint and several and all shall be binding upon the personal representatives, heirs, successors and assigns of Debtor.
     9. 
FINAL AGREEMENT
. BY SIGNING THIS DOCUMENT EACH PARTY REPRESENTS AND AGREES THAT: (A) THIS DOCUMENT REPRESENTS THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF, (B) THIS DOCUMENT SUPERSEDES ANY COMMITMENT LETTER, TERM SHEET, OR OTHER WRITTEN OUTLINE OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS RELATING TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF, UNLESS SUCH COMMITMENT LETTER, TERM SHEET, OR OTHER WRITTEN OUTLINE OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS EXPRESSLY PROVIDES TO THE CONTRARY, (C) THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES, AND (D) THIS DOCUMENT MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF ANY PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OR UNDERSTANDINGS OF THE PARTIES.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this Security Agreement by their duly authorized officer(s) as of the date and year first above written, intending to be legally bound.
Debtor's Location (chief executive office): 950 South Franklin St. Eaton, OH 45320
Debtor's state of incorporation: Delaware

 
Exhibit 10.115
EXECUTION VERSION
     PLEDGE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") dated as of March 3, 2008, among , a Delaware corporation (""), and ., individually and in its capacity as Administrative Agent for the Lenders under the Credit Agreement referred to below ("").
Lam Research Corporation
Pledgor
ABN AMRO Bank N.V
Pledgee
     WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of the date hereof by and among Pledgor, Pledgee and the Lenders signatory thereto (including all annexes, exhibits and schedules thereto, as from time to time amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified, the ""), Lenders have agreed to make term loans (the "") to Pledgor;
Credit Agreement
Loans
     WHEREAS, in order to induce Pledgee and Lenders to enter into the Credit Agreement and other Loan Documents and to induce Lenders to make the Loans as provided for in the Credit Agreement, Pledgor has agreed to grant a continuing Lien on the Collateral (as hereinafter defined) to secure the Obligations;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants herein contained and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     1. . All capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement. All other terms contained in this Agreement, unless the context indicates otherwise, have the meanings provided for by the UCC to the extent the same are used or defined therein.
DEFINED TERMS
     2. . Pledgor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally grants a security interest in, a lien upon and the right of set-off against, and assigns and transfers to Pledgee all property referred to in Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein, as hereafter amended or supplemented from time to time (the "Collateral").
GRANT OF SECURITY INTEREST
     3. . The Collateral secures and will secure all Secured Obligations.
SECURED OBLIGATIONS
     4. . Pledgor covenants, represents and warrants that unless compliance is waived by Pledgee in writing:
PLEDGOR'S COVENANTS, REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
     (a) Pledgor is the legal and beneficial owner of all the Collateral free and clear of any and all liens, encumbrances, or interests of any third parties other than the security interest of Pledgee, and will keep the Collateral free of all liens, claims, security interests and encumbrances of any kind or nature, whether voluntary or involuntary, except the security interest of Pledgee.
 
     (b) Pledgor shall, at Pledgor's expense, take all actions necessary or advisable from time to time to maintain the first priority and perfection of the security interest of Pledgee in the Collateral and shall not take any actions that would alter, impair or eliminate said priority or perfection.
     (c) Pledgor agrees to pay prior to delinquency all taxes, charges, liens and assessments against the Collateral, and upon the failure of Pledgor to do so, Pledgee at its option may pay any of them and shall be the sole judge of the legality or validity thereof and the amount necessary to discharge the same.
     (d) Pledgor's exact legal name is correctly set forth on the signature page hereof. Pledgor will notify Pledgee in writing at least 30 days prior to any change in Pledgor's name or identity.
     (e) Pledgor's chief executive office is, and has been for the four-month period preceding the date hereof (or, if less, the entire period of the existence of Pledgor) located, in the state specified on the signature page hereof. In addition, Pledgor is an organization of the type and (if an unregistered entity), is incorporated in or organized under the laws of the state specified on such signature page. Pledgor shall give Pledgee at least thirty (30) days notice before changing the location of its residence or its chief executive office, type of organization, business structure or state of incorporation or organization.
     (f) Pledgor's organizational identification number, if any, assigned by its state of incorporation or organization is correctly set forth on the signature page hereof. Pledgor shall promptly notify Pledgee (i) of any change of its organizational identification number, or (ii) if Pledgor does not have an organizational identification number and later obtains one, of such organizational identification number.
     5. . Pledgor hereby represents, warrants and covenants the following with respect to any equity securities comprising any or all of the Collateral (the "Equity Securities") and covenants and agrees to promptly notify Pledgee in writing in the event that any of the foregoing representations and warranties is no longer true and correct:
REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS REGARDING EQUITY SECURITIES COLLATERAL
     (a) The Equity Securities have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable.
     (b) There are no restrictions on the pledge of the Equity Securities by Pledgor to Pledgee nor on the sale of the Equity Securities by Pledgor or Pledgee (whether pursuant to securities laws or regulations or any shareholder, lock-up or other similar agreement or insider trading rules of the issuer).
     (c) The Equity Securities are freely and fully marketable by Pledgor or Pledgee as pledgee, without regard to any holding period, manner of sale, volume limitation, public information or notice requirement, subject to applicable securities laws or regulations.
     6. . Pledgor authorizes and irrevocably appoints Pledgee as Pledgor's true and lawful attorney-in-fact with full power of
PLEDGEE APPOINTED ATTORNEY IN FACT
 
substitution to take any action and execute or otherwise authenticate any record or other documentation that Pledgee considers necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes of this Agreement, including but not limited to, the following actions: (a) following and during the continuance of an Event of Default, to endorse, receive, accept and collect all checks, drafts, other payment orders and instruments representing or included in the Collateral or representing any payment, dividend or distribution relating to any Collateral or to take any other action to enforce, collect or compromise any of the Collateral; (b) to transfer any Collateral (including converting physical certificates to book-entry holdings) into the name of Pledgee or its nominee or any broker-dealer (which may be an affiliate of Pledgee) and to execute any control agreement covering any Collateral on Pledgor's behalf and as attorney-in-fact for Pledgor, in each case, in order to perfect Pledgee's first priority and continuing security interest in the Collateral and in order to provide Pledgee with control of the Collateral, and Pledgor's signature on this Agreement or other authentication of this Agreement shall constitute an irrevocable direction by Pledgor to any bank, custodian, broker dealer, any other securities intermediary or commodity intermediary holding any Collateral or any issuer of any letters of credit to comply with any instructions or entitlement orders, of Pledgee without further consent of Pledgor; (c) to participate in any recapitalization, reclassification, reorganization, consolidation, redemption, stock split, merger or liquidation of any issuer of securities which constitute Collateral, and in connection therewith Pledgee may deposit or surrender control of the Collateral, accept money or other property in exchange for the Collateral, and take such action as it deems proper in connection therewith, and any money or property received on account of or in exchange for the Collateral shall be applied to the Secured Obligations or held by Pledgee thereafter as Collateral pursuant to the provisions hereof; (d) to exercise any right, privilege or option pertaining to any Collateral, but Pledgee has no obligation to do so; (e) to file any claims, take any actions or institute any proceedings which Pledgee determines to be necessary or appropriate to collect or preserve the Collateral or to enforce Pledgee's rights with respect to the Collateral; (f) to execute in the name or otherwise authenticate on behalf of Pledgor any record reasonably believed necessary or appropriate by Pledgee for compliance with laws, rules or regulations applicable to any Collateral, or in connection with exercising Pledgee's rights under this Agreement; (g) to file any financing statement relating to this Agreement electronically, and Pledgee's transmission of Pledgor's signature on and authentication of the financing statement shall constitute Pledgor's signature on and authentication of the financing statement; (h) to make any compromise or settlement it deems desirable or proper with reference to the Collateral; (i) to do and take any and all actions with respect to the Collateral and to perform any of Pledgor's obligations under this Agreement; and (j) to execute any documentation reasonably believed necessary by Pledgee for compliance with any restrictions, laws, rules or regulations applicable to any Collateral hereunder that constitutes restricted or control securities under the securities laws. The foregoing appointments are irrevocable and coupled with an interest and shall survive the death or disability of Pledgor and shall not be revoked without Pledgee's written consent. To the extent permitted by law, Pledgor hereby ratifies all said attorney-in-fact shall lawfully do by virtue hereof.
     7. .
VOTING RIGHTS
     (a) Subject to subsection (b) below, Pledgor shall be entitled to exercise any and all voting and other consensual rights pertaining to the Collateral or any part thereof for any purpose
 
not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement or any document or agreement executed in connection herewith.
     (b) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, at the option of Pledgee exercised in a writing sent to Pledgor, all rights of Pledgor to exercise the voting and other consensual rights which it would otherwise be entitled to exercise pursuant to subsection (a) above shall cease, and Pledgee shall thereupon have the sole right to exercise such voting and other consensual rights.
     8. .
EVENTS OF DEFAULT; REMEDIES
     (a) Any one or more of the following shall be a default hereunder (each an, ""):
Event of Default
     (i) Any Event of Default occurs under the Credit Agreement.
     (ii) Any control agreement covering any Collateral is breached, or any party to such control agreement terminates or notifies Pledgee or Pledgor of its intention to terminate the control agreement or denies the enforceability of the control agreement.
     (iii) Any involuntary lien of any kind or character attaches to any of the Collateral.
     (b) If an Event of Default occurs, Pledgee may do any one or more of the following:
     (i) Declare any Secured Obligations immediately due and payable, without notice or demand.
     (ii) Exercise as to any or all of the Collateral all the rights, powers and remedies of an owner, subject to the Section 7 hereof.
     (iii) Enforce the security interest given hereunder pursuant to the UCC and any other applicable law.
     (iv) Sell all or any part of the Collateral at public or private sale in accordance with the UCC, without advertisement, in such manner and order as Pledgee may elect. Pledgee may purchase the Collateral for its own account at any such sale. Pledgee shall give Pledgor such notice of any public or private sale as may be required by the UCC, provided that to the extent notice of any such sale is required by the UCC or other applicable law, Pledgor agrees that at least 10 days notice to Pledgor of the time and place of any public sale or the time after which any private sale is to be made shall constitute reasonable notification and provided further that, if Pledgee fails to comply with this sentence in any respect, its liability for such failure shall be limited to the liability (if any) imposed on it as a matter of law under the UCC or other applicable law. Pledgor acknowledges that Collateral may be sold at a loss to Pledgor, and that, in such event, Pledgee shall have no liability or responsibility to Pledgor for such loss. Pledgor further acknowledges that a private sale may result in prices and other terms less favorable to the seller than if such sale were a public sale and, notwithstanding such
 
circumstances, agrees that no such private sale shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, be deemed not to be "commercially reasonable" solely as a result of such prices and other sale terms. Upon any such sale, Pledgee shall have the right to deliver, assign and transfer to the buyer thereof the Collateral so sold. Each buyer at any such sale shall hold the Collateral so sold absolutely and free from any claim or right of whatsoever kind, including any equity or right of redemption of Pledgor that may be waived or any other right or claim of Pledgor, and Pledgor, to the extent permitted by law, hereby specifically waives all rights of redemption, stay or appraisal that Pledgor has or may have under any law now existing or hereafter adopted.
Without limiting any other rights and remedies available to Pledgee, Pledgor expressly acknowledges and agrees that with respect to Collateral consisting of notes, bonds or other securities which are not sold on a recognized market, Pledgee shall be deemed to have conducted a commercially reasonable sale of such Collateral if (a) such sale is conducted by any nationally recognized broker-dealer (including any affiliate of Pledgee), investment banker or any other method common in the securities industry, and (b) if the purchaser is Pledgee or any affiliate of Pledgee, the sale price received by Pledgee in connection with such sale is reasonably supported by quotations received from one or more other nationally recognized broker-dealers, investment bankers or other financial institutions.
     (v) Enforce the security interest of Pledgee in any deposit account which is part of the Collateral by applying such account to the Secured Obligations.
     (vi) Exercise any other remedy provided under this Agreement or by any applicable law.
     (vii) Comply with any applicable state or federal law requirements in connection with a disposition of the Collateral and such compliance will not be considered to affect adversely the commercial reasonableness of any sale or other disposition of the Collateral.
     (viii) Sell the Collateral without giving any warranties as to the Collateral. Pledgee may specifically disclaim any warranties of title or the like. This procedure will not be considered to affect adversely the commercial reasonableness of any sale or other disposition of the Collateral.
All cash proceeds received by or on behalf of Pledgee in respect of any sale of, collection from, or other realization upon all or any part of the Collateral may, following the payment of the fees and expenses of Pledgee, be held by Pledgee as collateral for, and/or then or at any time thereafter applied in whole or in part by Pledgee to, the Secured Obligations in such order as Pledgee may elect. Any surplus of such cash or cash proceeds held by or on behalf of Pledgee and remaining after payment in full of all the Secured Obligations shall be paid to Pledgor. If the proceeds of sale, collection or other realization of or upon the Collateral pursuant to this Section are insufficient to cover the costs and expenses of such realization and the payment in full of all Secured Obligations, Pledgor shall remain liable for any deficiency to the extent Pledgor are
 
obligated therefor under the other documents executed in connection with the Secured Obligations and this Agreement.
     9. . If Pledgor fails to perform any agreement contained herein, Pledgee may perform or cause performance of such agreement and the expenses of Pledgee incurred in connection therewith shall be payable by Pledgor under Section 13. Any powers conferred on Pledgee hereunder are solely to protect its interest in the Collateral and shall not impose any duty upon it to exercise any such powers. Except for reasonable care in the custody of any Collateral in its possession and the accounting for moneys actually received by it hereunder, Pledgee shall have no duty as to any Collateral or as to the taking of any necessary steps to preserve rights against prior parties or any other rights pertaining to any Collateral. Pledgee shall be deemed to have exercised reasonable care in the custody and preservation of the Collateral in its possession if the Collateral is accorded treatment substantially equal to that which Pledgee accords its own property, it being understood that Pledgee shall not have any responsibility for (a) ascertaining, exercising or taking other action or giving Pledgor notice with respect to subscription rights, calls, conversions, exchanges, maturities, lenders or other matters relative to any Collateral, whether or not Pledgee has or is deemed to have knowledge of such matters, or (b) taking any necessary steps to preserve rights against any parties with respect to any Collateral. Pledgee shall not be liable for any loss to the Collateral resulting from acts of God, war, civil commotion, fire, earthquake, or other disaster or for any other loss or damage to the Collateral except to the extent such loss is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from Pledgee's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
RIGHT TO CURE; LIMITATION ON PLEDGEE'S DUTIES
     10. . Pledgee shall be under no duty or obligation whatsoever and Pledgor waives any right to require Pledgee to (i) make or give any presentment, demands for performances, notices of nonperformance, protests, notices of protest or notices of dishonor in connection with any obligations or evidences of indebtedness held by Pledgee as Collateral, or in connection with any obligation or evidences of indebtedness which constitute in whole or in part the Secured Obligations, (ii) proceed against any person or entity, (iii) proceed against or exhaust any collateral, or (iv) pursue any other remedy in Pledgee's power; and Pledgor waives any defense arising by reason of any disability or other defense of Pledgor or any other person, or by reason of the cessation from any cause whatsoever of the liability of Pledgor or any other person. Until the Secured Obligations is paid in full, Pledgor waives any right of subrogation, reimbursement, indemnification, and contribution (contractual, statutory or otherwise), including without limitation any claim or right of subrogation under the Bankruptcy Code (Title 11 of the U.S. Code) or any successor statute, arising from the existence or performance of this Agreement, and Pledgor waives any right to enforce any remedy which Pledgee now has or may hereafter have against Pledgor or against any other person and waives any benefit of and any right to participate in any Collateral or security whatsoever now or hereafter held by Pledgee.
WAIVERS
     11. .
TRANSFER, DELIVERY AND RETURN OF COLLATERAL
     (a) Pledgor shall immediately deliver or cause to be delivered to Pledgee (or the Securities Intermediary, if any) (i) any certificates or instruments now or hereafter representing or evidencing Collateral and such certificates and instruments shall be in suitable form for transfer without restriction or stop order by delivery, or shall be accompanied by duly executed
 
instruments of transfer or assignment in blank in form and substance satisfactory to Pledgee, and (ii) following and during the continuance of an Event of Default, in the same form as received (with any necessary endorsement), all dividends and other distributions paid or payable in cash in respect of any Collateral and any such amounts, if received by Pledgor, shall be received in trust for the benefit of Pledgee and be segregated from the other property or funds of Pledgor.
     (b) Pledgee may at any time deliver the Collateral or any part thereof to Pledgor and the receipt by Pledgor shall be a complete and full acquittance for the Collateral so delivered, and Pledgee shall thereafter be discharged from any liability or responsibility therefor.
     (c) Upon the transfer of all or any part of the Secured Obligations, Pledgee may transfer all or any part of the Collateral and shall be fully discharged thereafter from all liability and responsibility with respect to such Collateral so transferred, and the transferee shall be vested with all the rights and powers of Pledgee hereunder with respect to such Collateral so transferred; but with respect to any Collateral not so transferred Pledgee shall retain all rights and powers hereby given. Pledgor agrees that Pledgee may disclose to any prospective purchaser or transferee and any purchaser or transferee of all or part of the Secured Obligations any and all information in Pledgee's possession concerning Pledgor, this Agreement and the Collateral.
     12. .
CONTINUING AGREEMENT AND POWERS
     (a) This is a continuing Agreement and all the rights, powers and remedies hereunder shall, unless otherwise limited herein, apply to all past, present and future Secured Obligations of Pledgor to Pledgee, including that arising under successive transactions which shall either continue the Secured Obligations, increase or decrease it, or from time to time create new Secured Obligations after all or any prior Secured Obligations has been satisfied, and notwithstanding the death, incapacity, cessation of business, dissolution or bankruptcy of Pledgor, or any other event or proceeding affecting Pledgor.
     (b) Until all Secured Obligations shall have been paid in full and Pledgee shall have no obligation to extend credit to Pledgor, the power of sale and all other rights, powers and remedies granted to Pledgee hereunder shall continue to exist and may be exercised by Pledgee at the time specified hereunder irrespective of the fact that the Secured Obligations or any part thereof may have become barred by any statute of limitations, or that the personal liability of Pledgor may have ceased. Pledgor waives the benefit of any statute of limitations as applied to this Agreement.
     13. . All advances, charges, costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred or paid by Pledgee in exercising any right, power or remedy conferred by this Agreement or in the enforcement thereof, and including the charges and expenses of Pledgee's custody unit, shall become a part of the Secured Obligations secured hereunder and shall be paid to Pledgee by Pledgor immediately and without demand, with interest thereon at an annual rate equal to the highest rate of interest of any Secured Obligations secured by this Agreement (or, if there is no such interest rate, at the maximum interest rate permitted by law for interest on judgments). Such costs and attorneys' fees shall include the allocated cost of in-house counsel to the extent permitted by law.
COSTS
 
     14. . Unless otherwise provided or agreed to herein or required by law, notice and communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be mailed, telecopied or delivered to Pledgor to the address or facsimile number for notices as determined in the Credit Agreement or at such other address or facsimile number as shall be designated by Pledgor in a written notice to Pledgee at the address for notices set forth for Pledgee in the Credit Agreement. Notices and other communications sent shall be effective as of the times specified in the Credit Agreement.
NOTICES
     15. . Pledgor shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend Pledgee and its directors, officers, agents and employees, from and against any and all claims, actions, obligations, liabilities and expenses, including defense costs, investigative fees and costs, and legal fees and damages arising from their execution of or performance under this Agreement or any control agreement executed by Pledgee in connection with the Collateral, except to the extent that such claim, action, obligation, liability or expense is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such indemnified person. This indemnification shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
INDEMNITY
     16. . If a judgment or order is rendered by any court, tribunal or arbitration panel for the payment of any amounts owing to Pledgee under this Agreement or for the payment of damages in respect of any breach of this Agreement or any provision or term thereof and such judgment or order is expressed in currency ("Judgment Currency") other than United States dollars, Pledgor agrees notwithstanding any such judgment or order, to indemnify and hold harmless Pledgee against any deficiency in United States dollars in the amounts received by Pledgee arising or resulting from any variation between (i) the rate of exchange at which United States dollars are converted into Judgment Currency for the purpose of the judgment or order, and (ii) the rate of exchange at which Pledgee is able to purchase United States dollars with the amount of Judgment Currency actually received by Pledgee. The above indemnity constitutes a separate and independent obligation of Pledgor from its other obligations under this Agreement and applies irrespective of any indulgence granted by Pledgee. No proof or evidence of any actual loss shall be required to be provided by Pledgee. The term "rate of exchange" shall include any premiums, taxes and costs of exchange payable in connection with the purchase of or conversion into the relevant currency and shall be determined by Pledgee in accordance with its normal procedures.
JUDGMENT CURRENCY
     17. .
MISCELLANEOUS
     (a) This Agreement (i) may be waived, altered, modified or amended only by an instrument in writing, duly executed by the party or parties sought to be charged or bound thereby, and (ii) may be executed in any number of identical counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original for all purposes and all of which constitute, collectively, one agreement; but, in making proof of this Agreement, it shall not be necessary to produce or account for more than one such counterpart. Any waiver, express or implied, of any provision hereof and any delay or failure by Pledgee to enforce any provision shall not preclude Pledgee from enforcing any such provision thereafter.
 
     (b) Pledgor hereby irrevocably authorizes Pledgee to file one or more financing statements describing all or part of the Collateral, and continuation statements, or amendments thereto, relative to all or part of the Collateral as authorized by applicable law. Such financing statements, continuation statements and amendments will contain any other information required by the UCC for the sufficiency or filing office acceptance of any financing statement, continuation statement or amendment, including whether Pledgor is an organization, the type of organization and any organizational identification number issued to Pledgor. Pledgor agrees to furnish any such information to Pledgee promptly upon request. Pledgor also ratifies its authorization for Pledgee to have filed any initial financing statement or amendments thereto filed prior to the date hereof.
     (c) From time to time, Pledgor shall, at the request of Pledgee, execute such other agreements, documents or instruments or take any other actions in connection with this Agreement as Pledgee may reasonably deem necessary to evidence or perfect the security interests granted herein, to maintain the first priority of the security interests, or to effectuate the rights granted to Pledgee herein, but their failure to do so shall not limit or affect any security interest or any other rights of Pledgee in and to the Collateral. Pledgor will execute and deliver to Pledgee any stock powers, instructions to any securities intermediary, issuer or transfer agent, proxies, or any other documents of transfer that Pledgee requests in order to perfect, obtain control or otherwise protect Pledgee's security interest in the Collateral or to effect Pledgee's rights under this Agreement. Such powers or documents may be executed in blank or completed prior to execution, as requested by Pledgee.
     (d) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed according to internal laws of the State of California, to the jurisdiction of which the parties hereto submit, except as otherwise required by mandatory provisions of law and except to the extent that remedies are governed by the laws of any other jurisdiction.
     (e) Any term used or defined in the UCC and not defined herein has the meaning given to the term in the UCC, when used in this Agreement.
     (f) This Agreement shall benefit Pledgee's successors and assigns and shall bind Pledgor's successors and assigns, except that Pledgor may not assign its rights and obligations under this Agreement. This Agreement shall bind all parties who become bound as a Loan Party with respect to the Secured Obligations.
     (g) All rights and remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies otherwise provided by law. Any single or partial exercise of any right or remedy shall not preclude the further exercise of any other right or remedy.
     (h) In all cases where more than one party executes this Agreement, all words used herein in the singular shall be deemed to have been used in the plural where the context and construction so require, and all obligations and undertakings hereunder of such parties are joint and several.
 
     (i) The illegality, invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not in any way affect or impair the legality, validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
     (j) This Agreement and any other documents executed or delivered in connection herewith constitute the entire agreement of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede any prior expressions of intent or understandings with respect to this transaction.
     18. . BY SIGNING THIS DOCUMENT EACH PARTY REPRESENTS AND AGREES THAT: (A) THIS DOCUMENT REPRESENTS THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF, (B) THIS DOCUMENT SUPERSEDES ANY COMMITMENT LETTER, TERM SHEET, OR OTHER WRITTEN OUTLINE OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS RELATING TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF, UNLESS SUCH COMMITMENT LETTER, TERM SHEET, OR OTHER WRITTEN OUTLINE OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS EXPRESSLY PROVIDES TO THE CONTRARY, (C) THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES, AND (D) THIS DOCUMENT MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF ANY PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OR UNDERSTANDINGS OF THE PARTIES.
Final Agreement
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Pledge Agreement by their duly authorized officer(s) as of the date and year first above written, intending to be legally bound.
 
     Equity Securities
     The Collateral includes all present and future income, proceeds, earnings, increases, and substitutions from or for the Collateral of every kind and nature, including without limitation all payments, interest, profits, distributions, benefits, rights, options, warrants, dividends, stock dividends, stock splits, stock rights, regulatory dividends, subscriptions, monies, claims for money due and to become due, proceeds of any insurance on the Collateral, shares of stock of different par value or no par value issued in substitution or exchange for shares included in the Collateral, and all other property Pledgor is entitled to receive on account of such Collateral, including accounts, documents, instruments, chattel paper, and general intangibles; , , that in no event shall the pledge of shares in Lam Research International B.V. exceed 65% of the total shares outstanding.
provided
however
     This Exhibit A is dated , 2008.
                    
           If this box is checked, this Exhibit A replaces a prior Exhibit A [Each replacement Exhibit A should list all Collateral subject to the Pledge Agreement as of the effective date of replacement on a cumulative basis.]
o


