FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20080908172914.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
     On September 8, 2008, Lam Research Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $250 million of the Company's common stock from the public market or in private purchases. A copy of the press release issued by the Company on September 8, 2008 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, the information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
     99.1       Press release dated September 8, 2008 announcing $250 million share repurchase program
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 8, 2008
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Carol Raeburn, Senior Director, Investor Relations, phone: 510/572-4450, e-mail: carol.raeburn@lamresearch.com
Lam Research Corporation Contact:
Lam Research Corporation Announces $250 Million Share Repurchase Program
FREMONT, Calif., September 8, 2008 Lam Research Corporation (NASDAQ: LRCX) today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $250 million of the Company's common stock from the public market or in private purchases. The program is effective immediately.
The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time, and will be funded using the Company's available cash. As of June 29, 2008, Lam Research had approximately $1.2 billion in total gross cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash and investments and approximately 125 million shares outstanding.
"The decision to repurchase our Company's shares reflects both management's and the board's confidence in our long-term growth prospects," stated Steve Newberry, president and chief executive officer of Lam Research. "We believe that a stock buyback is an effective use of our available capital at this time, and provides the potential for increased returns to our shareholders over the long term," Newberry concluded.
Statements made in this press release which are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements relate, but are not limited, to management's plans for repurchasing Company stock under the approvals granted by the Board, management's and the board's confidence in our long term growth prospects and the Company's view of the effective use of our capital and it potential for increased returns to our shareholders. These plans are dependent on the Company's future financial condition, and management's determinations of the continued value of a repurchase program, changing business conditions in the semiconductor industry and the overall economy and our plans for reacting to those changes, changing customer demands, success of our competitors' strategies including their development of new technologies, and the technical challenges presented by our current product offerings as well as our new products.
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect as well as other risks detailed in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including specifically the report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 29, 2008 which could cause actual results to vary from expectations. The Company undertakes no obligation to update the information or statements made in this press release.
Lam Research Corporation is a major provider of wafer fabrication equipment and services to the world's semiconductor industry. Lam's common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol LRCX. Lam Research is a NASDAQ-100 company. For more information, visit .
SM
http://www.lamresearch.com/


