FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20091109213727.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
(b) Departure of Director.
On November 5, 2009, Jack R. Harris retired from his position as a director of Lam Research Corporation (the "Company"), effective immediately prior to the Company's 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on November 5, 2009.
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Reversal of Reduction in Base Salaries
In February 2009, the base salaries for each of the Company's named executive officers were reduced by 10-17.5% (depending on position level) in conjunction with a company-wide employee salary reduction program. On November 5 and 6, 2009, the Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") and the independent directors acted to reverse these annual base salary reductions, effective December 28, 2009. These actions applied to the following named executive officers: Stephen G. Newberry, President and Chief Executive Officer, Martin B. Anstice, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Ernest E. Maddock, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Richard A. Gottscho, Group Vice President and General Manager, Etch Businesses, and Abdi Hariri, Group Vice President, Global Operations. The restored annual base salaries for each officer will be: Mr. Newberry, $880,000; Mr. Anstice, $450,000; Mr. Maddock, $440,000; Mr. Gottscho, $360,000; and Mr. Hariri, $315,000. The reversal was approved, as to Mr. Newberry, by the independent directors on November 6, 2009, and, as to each other named executive officer, by the Compensation Committee on November 5, 2009.
 
(a-i) Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws.
On November 5, 2009, following approval by the Board and the requisite stockholders of the Company, the Company filed an amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation (the "Amendment") with the Delaware Secretary of State, which became effective on the filing date. The Amendment eliminated a provision of the Certificate of Incorporation that permitted cumulative voting in the election of directors of the Company. This description of the Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Amendment, which is attached as Exhibit 3.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
(a-ii) Amendment and Restatement of Bylaws.
On and effective November 5, 2009, the Board approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's Bylaws. The changes to the Bylaws (i) provide for majority voting in uncontested board of director elections; (ii) eliminate all references to cumulative voting; and (iii) make certain other minor changes. This description of the amended and restated Bylaws does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the amended and restated Bylaws, which is attached as Exhibit 3.5 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 3.4
Lam Research Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Company"), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
 
RESOLVED, that Article "ELEVENTH" of the Certificate of Incorporation is hereby deleted, in its entirety, and Articles "TWELFTH" and "THIRTEENTH" are hereby renumbered to be Articles "ELEVENTH" and "TWELFTH", respectively.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation to be signed by George M. Schisler, Jr., its Secretary, this fifth day of November, 2009.
 

Exhibit 3.5
1.1
REGISTERED OFFICE
The registered office of the corporation shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware. The name of the registered agent of the corporation at such location is The Corporation Trust Company.
1.2
OTHER OFFICES
The board of directors may at any time establish other offices at any place or places where the corporation is qualified to do business.
2.1
PLACE OF MEETINGS
Meetings of stockholders shall be held at any place, within or outside the State of Delaware, designated by the board of directors. In the absence of any such designation, stockholders' meetings shall be held at the registered office of the Corporation.
2.2
ANNUAL MEETING
(a) An annual meeting of the stockholders, for the election of directors to succeed those whose terms expire and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting, shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as the board of directors shall each year fix.
(b) Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors and the proposal of business to be transacted by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (1) pursuant to the corporation's proxy materials with respect to such meeting, (2) by or at the direction of the board of directors, or (3) by any stockholder of record of the corporation (the "Record Stockholder") at the time of the giving of the notice required in the following paragraph, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who has complied with the notice procedures set forth in this section. For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing clause (3) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or propose business (other than business included in the corporation's proxy materials pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (such act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the "Exchange Act")) at an annual meeting of stockholders.
(c) For nominations or business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a Record Stockholder pursuant to clause (3) of the foregoing paragraph, (1) the Record Stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the secretary of the corporation, (2) any such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action under Delaware law and (3) the Record Stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf any such proposal or nomination is made, must have acted in accordance with the representations set forth in the Solicitation Statement required by these bylaws. To be timely, a Record Stockholder's notice shall be received by the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 45 or more than 75 days prior to the one-year anniversary of the date on which the corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that, subject to the last sentence of this Section 2.2(c), if the meeting is convened more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 30 days after the anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, or if no annual meeting was held in the preceding year, notice by the Record Stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the later of (i) the 90th day before such annual meeting or (ii) the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. Notwithstanding anything in the preceding sentence to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the board of directors is increased and there has been no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or indicating the increase in the size of the board of directors made by the corporation at least 10 days before the last day a Record Stockholder may deliver a notice of nomination in accordance with the preceding sentence, a Record Stockholder's notice required by this bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be received by the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation. In no event shall an adjournment, or postponement of an annual meeting for which notice has been given, commence a new time period for the giving of a Record Stockholder's notice.
(d) Such Record Stockholder's notice shall set forth:
1. if such notice pertains to the nomination of directors, as to each person whom the Record Stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director, all information relating to such person as would be required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for the election of such nominees as directors pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act, such person's written consent to serve as a director if elected, and a statement whether such person, if elected, intends to tender, promptly following such person's election or re-election, an irrevocable resignation effective upon such person's failure to receive the required vote for re-election at the next meeting at which such person would face re-election and upon acceptance of such resignation by the board of directors, in accordance with the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines;
2. as to any business that the Record Stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of such business, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such Record Stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and
3. as to (1) the Record Stockholder giving the notice and (2) the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (each, a "party"):
(i) the name and address of each such party;
(ii)(A) the class, series, and number of shares of the corporation that are owned, directly or indirectly, beneficially and of record by each such party, (B) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the corporation or otherwise (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by each such party, and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation, (C) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which either party has a right to vote, directly or indirectly, any shares of any security of the corporation, (D) any short interest in any security of the corporation held by each such party (for purposes of this Section 2.2(d), a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or
otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (E) any rights to dividends on the shares of the corporation owned beneficially directly or indirectly by each such party that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the corporation, (F) any proportionate interest in shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which either party is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (G) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that each such party is directly or indirectly entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of each such party's immediate family sharing the same household (which information set forth in this paragraph shall be supplemented by such stockholder or such beneficial owner, as the case may be, not later than ten (10) days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date);
(iii) any other information relating to each such party that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act; and
(iv) a statement whether or not each such party will deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of, in the case of a proposal, at least the percentage of voting power of all of the shares of capital stock of the corporation required under applicable law to carry the proposal or, in the case of a nomination or nominations, at least the percentage of voting power of all of the shares of capital stock of the corporation reasonably believed by the Record Stockholder or beneficial holder, as the case may be, to be sufficient to elect the nominee or nominees proposed to be nominated by the Record Stockholder (such statement, a "Solicitation Statement").
(e) A person shall not be eligible for election or re-election as a director at an annual meeting unless (i) the person is nominated by a Record Stockholder in accordance with Section 2.2(b)(3) or (ii) the person is nominated by or at the direction of the board of directors. Only such business shall be conducted at an annual meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section. The chairman of the meeting shall have the power and the duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting has been made in accordance with the procedures set forth in these bylaws and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with these bylaws, to declare that such defectively proposed business or nomination shall not be presented for stockholder action at the meeting and shall be disregarded.
(f) For purposes of these bylaws, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(g) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.2, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to matters set forth in this Section 2.2. Nothing in this Section 2.2 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
2.3
SPECIAL MEETING
(a) Special meetings of the stockholders, other than those required by statute, may be called only by the board of directors, the chairman of the board or the president. The board of directors may postpone or reschedule any previously scheduled special meeting.
(b) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the board of directors. The notice of such special meeting shall include the purpose for which the meeting is called. Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected (1) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (2) by any stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this paragraph, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who delivers a written notice to the secretary setting forth the information set forth in Section 2.2(d)(1) and 2.2(d)(3) of this Article II. Nominations by stockholders of persons for election to the board of directors may be made at such a special meeting of stockholders only if such stockholder of record's notice required by the preceding sentence shall be received by the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the board of directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall an adjournment, or postponement of a special meeting for which notice has been given, commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder of record's notice. A person shall not be eligible for election or reelection as a director at a special meeting unless the person is nominated (i) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (ii) by a stockholder of record in accordance with the notice procedures set forth in this Article II.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.3, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to matters set forth in this Section 2.3. Nothing in this Section 2.3 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
2.4
NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDERS' MEETINGS
All notices of meetings with stockholders shall be in writing and shall be sent or otherwise given in accordance with Section 2.5 of these bylaws not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. The notice shall specify the place, date, and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.
2.5
MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE; AFFIDAVIT OF NOTICE
Written notice of any meeting of stockholders, if mailed, is given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the corporation. An affidavit of the secretary or an assistant secretary or of the transfer agent of the corporation that the notice has been given shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
2.6
QUORUM
The holders of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business except as otherwise provided by statute or by the certificate of incorporation. If, however, such quorum is not present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, then either (i) the chairman of the meeting or (ii) the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present or represented, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed.
2.7
ADJOURNED MEETING; NOTICE
When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, unless these bylaws otherwise require, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the corporation may transact any business that might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
2.8
VOTING
The stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.11 of these bylaws, subject to the provisions of Sections 217 and 218 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware (relating to voting rights of fiduciaries, pledgors and joint owners of stock and to voting trusts and other voting agreements). Each stockholder represented at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder. The board of directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the corporation presiding at a meeting of stockholders, in his discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot.
A nominee for director shall be elected to the Board of Directors if the votes cast for such nominee's election exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election (with abstentions and "broker non-votes" not counted as votes cast either for or against such nominee's election); provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any meeting of stockholders at which (i) the number of nominees for the board exceeds the number of open board seats; (ii) one or more nominees has been nominated pursuant to the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees set forth in these bylaws or pursuant to the provisions of any future law, rule or regulation that require the Corporation to allow stockholder nominations in a manner other than that provided in these bylaws; and (iii) any such nomination has not been withdrawn on or before the tenth day before the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders. If directors are to be elected by a plurality of the votes cast, stockholders shall not be permitted to vote against a nominee.
When a quorum is present at any meeting, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the stock having voting power present in person or represented by proxy shall decide any question brought before such meeting (other than director elections), unless the question is one upon which, by express provision of the statutes or of the Certificate of Incorporation, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of the question.
2.9
WAIVER OF NOTICE
Whenever notice is required to be given under any provision of the General Corporation Law of Delaware or of the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws.
2.10
STOCKHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, any action required by this chapter to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of a corporation, or any action that may be taken at any annual or special meeting of such stockholders, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice, and without a vote if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, is signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.
Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing. If the action which is consented to is such as would have required the filing of a certificate under any section of the General Corporation Law of Delaware if such action had been voted on by stockholders at a meeting thereof, then the certificate filed under such section shall state, in lieu of any statement required by such section concerning any vote of stockholders, that written notice and written consent have been given as provided in Section 228 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the board of directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors, and which date shall not be more than ten (10) days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the secretary, request the board of directors to fix a record date. The board of directors shall promptly, but in all events within ten (10) days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the board of directors within ten (10) days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the board of directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business or an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded, to the attention of the secretary of the corporation. Delivery shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the board of directors and prior action by the board of directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the board of directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
In the event of the delivery to the corporation of a written consent or consents purporting to authorize or take corporate action and/or related revocations (each such written consent and any revocation thereof is referred to in this Section 2.10 as a "Consent"), the secretary of the corporation shall provide for the safekeeping of such Consents and shall as soon as practicable thereafter conduct such reasonable investigation as he deems necessary or appropriate for the purpose of ascertaining the validity of such Consents and all matters incident thereto, including, without limitation, whether the holders of shares having the requisite voting power to authorize or take the action specified in the Consents have given consents. No consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be effective unless delivered to the corporation within sixty (60) days following the record date relating thereto fixed pursuant to this Section 2.10.
2.11
RECORD DATE FOR STOCKHOLDER NOTICE; VOTING; GIVING CONSENTS
Except as otherwise permitted by law, in order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall be not more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action.
If the board of directors does not so fix a record date:
(i) The record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
(ii) The record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board of directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the board of directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
2.12
PROXIES
Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or to express consent or dissent to corporate action in writing without a meeting may authorize another person or persons to act for him by a written proxy, signed by the stockholder and filed with the secretary of the corporation, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three (3) years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A proxy shall be deemed signed if the stockholder's name is placed on the proxy (whether by manual
signature, typewriting, telegraphic transmission or otherwise) by the stockholder or the stockholder's attorney-in-fact. The revocability of a proxy that states on its face that it is irrevocable shall be governed by the provisions of Section 212(c) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
2.13
LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS ENTITLED TO VOTE
The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of a corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, in the manner provided by law. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. Such list shall presumptively determine the identity of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting and the number of shares held by each of them.
2.14
CONDUCT OF BUSINESS
The chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall determine the order of business and the procedures at the meeting, including such matters as the regulation of the manner of voting and the conduct of business.
3.1
POWERS
Subject to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware and any limitations in the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws relating to action required to be approved by the stockholders or by the outstanding shares, the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the board of directors.
3.2
NUMBER OF DIRECTORS
The number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors then in office.
No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director before that director's term of office expires.
3.3
ELECTION, QUALIFICATION AND TERM OF OFFICE OF DIRECTORS
Except as provided in Section 3.4 of these bylaws, directors shall be elected at each annual meeting of stockholders to hold office until the next annual meeting. Directors need not be stockholders unless so required by the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, wherein other qualifications for directors may be prescribed. Each director, including a director elected to fill a vacancy, shall hold office until his successor is elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal.
Elections of directors need not be by written ballot unless a stockholder demands election by written ballot at the meeting and before voting begins.
3.4
RESIGNATION AND VACANCIES
Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the corporation. A resignation is effective when it is delivered unless the resignation specifies a later effective date or an effective date determined upon the happening of an event or events. When one or more directors so resigns, a majority of the directors then in office (although less than a quorum), or a sole remaining director, shall have power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, and each director so chosen shall hold office as provided in this section in the filling of other vacancies. When one or more directors resigns and the resignation is effective at a future date or upon the happening of a future event, a majority of the directors then in office (although less than a quorum), or a sole remaining director, including those who have so resigned, shall have power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when such resignation or resignations shall become effective, and each director so chosen shall hold office as provided in this section in the filling of other vacancies.
A vacancy created by the removal of a director by the vote or written consent of the stockholders or by a court order may be filled only by the vote of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon represented at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present, or by the unanimous written consent of all shares entitled to vote thereon. Each director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until a successor has been elected and qualified.
Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws:
(i) Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors elected by all of the stockholders having the right to vote as a single class may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.
(ii) Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may be filled by a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series thereof then in office, or by a sole remaining director so elected.
If at any time, by reason of death or resignation or other cause, the corporation should have no directors in office, then any officer or any stockholder or an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of a stockholder, or other fiduciary entrusted with like responsibility for the person or estate of a stockholder, may call a special meeting of stockholders in accordance with the provisions of the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, or may apply to the Court of Chancery for a decree summarily ordering an election as provided in Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
If, at the time of filling any vacancy or any newly created directorship, the directors then in office constitute less than a majority of the whole board (as constituted immediately prior to any such increase), then the Court of Chancery may, upon application of any stockholder or stockholders holding at least ten (10) percent of the total number of the shares at the time outstanding having the right to vote for such directors, summarily order an election to be held to fill any such vacancies or newly created directorships, or to replace the directors chosen by the directors then in office as aforesaid, which election shall be governed by the provisions of Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware as far as applicable.
A director elected or appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders or until a successor shall be elected and qualified.
3.5
PLACE OF MEETINGS; MEETINGS BY TELEPHONE
The board of directors of the corporation may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or outside the State of Delaware.
Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, members of the board of directors, or any committee designated by the board of directors, may participate in a meeting of the board of directors, or any committee, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
3.6
FIRST MEETINGS
The first meeting of each newly elected board of directors shall be held at such time and place as shall be fixed by the vote of the stockholders at the annual meeting and no notice of such meeting shall be necessary to the newly elected directors in order legally to constitute the meeting, provided a quorum shall be present. In the event of the failure of the stockholders to fix the time or place of such first meeting of the newly elected board of directors, or in the event such meeting is not held at the time and place so fixed by the stockholders, the meeting may be held at such time and place as shall be specified in a notice given as hereinafter provided for special meetings of the board of directors, or as shall be specified in a written waiver signed by all of the directors.
3.7
REGULAR MEETINGS
Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held without notice if the times of such meetings are fixed by the board of directors.
3.8
SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE
Notice of the time and place of special meetings shall be given to each director at that director's address as it is shown on the records of the corporation. Notice of such special meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either (i) by mail not less than four (4) days before the date of the meeting, or (ii) personally, by telephone, telecopy, telegram, telex or other similar means of communication on twenty-four (24) hours' notice, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances. Any oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated either to the director or to a person at the office of the director whom the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director.
3.9
QUORUM
At all meetings of the board of directors, a majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the board of directors, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by statute or by the certificate of incorporation. If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the board of directors, then the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present.
3.10
WAIVER OF NOTICE
Whenever notice is required to be given under any provision of the General Corporation Law of Delaware or of the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the directors, or members of a committee of directors, need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws.
3.11
ADJOURNED MEETING; NOTICE
If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the board of directors, then the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present.
3.12
BOARD ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the board of directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the board or committee.
3.13
FEES AND COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, the board of directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors. The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attending each meeting of the board of directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attending each meeting of the board of directors or a stated salary as director. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.
3.14
APPROVAL OF LOANS TO OFFICERS
The corporation may lend money to, or guarantee any obligation of, or otherwise assist any officer or other employee of the corporation or of its subsidiaries who is not an "executive officer" (as such term is defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) or a director of the corporation, whenever in the judgment of the directors, such loan, guaranty or assistance may reasonably be expected to benefit the corporation. The loan, guaranty or other assistance may be with or without interest and may be unsecured, or secured in such manner as the board of directors shall approve, including, without limitation, a pledge of shares of stock of the corporation. Nothing in this section contained shall be deemed to deny, limit or restrict the powers of guaranty or warranty of the corporation at common law or under any statute.
3.15
REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS
Unless otherwise restricted by statute, by the certificate of incorporation or by these bylaws, any director or the entire board of directors may be removed, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors.
No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director prior to the expiration of such director's term of office.
3.16
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The corporation may also have, at the discretion of the board of directors, a chairman of the board of directors, who shall not be considered an officer of the corporation solely by reason of being appointed to such position.
4.1
COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS
The board of directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole board, designate one or more committees, with each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the corporation. The board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the board of directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the board of directors or in the bylaws of the corporation, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the board of directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, and may authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers that may require it; but no such committees shall have the power or authority to (i) amend the certificate of incorporation (except that a committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the board of directors as provided in Section 151(a) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, fix any of the preferences or rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the corporation or the conversion into, or the exchange of such shares for, shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the corporation), (ii) adopt an agreement of merger or consolidation under Sections 251 or 252 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, (iii) recommend to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the corporation's property and assets, (iv) recommend to the stockholders a dissolution of the corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or (v) amend the bylaws of the corporation; and, unless the board resolution establishing the committee, the bylaws or the certificate of incorporation expressly so provide, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend, to authorize the issuance of stock, or to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to section 253 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
4.2
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the board of directors when required.
4.3
MEETINGS AND ACTION OF COMMITTEES
Meetings and actions of committees shall be governed by, and held and taken in accordance with, the provisions of Article III of these bylaws, Section 3.5 (place of meetings and meetings by telephone), Section 3.7 (regular meetings), Section 3.8 (special meetings and notice), Section 3.9 (quorum), Section 3.10 (waiver of notice), Section 3.11 (adjournment and notice of adjournment), and Section 3.12 (action without a meeting), with such changes in the context of those bylaws as are necessary to substitute the committee and its members for the board of directors and its members; provided, however, that the time of regular meetings of committees may also be called by resolution of the board of directors and that notice of special meeting of committees shall also be given to all alternate members, who shall have the right to attend all meetings of the committee. The board of directors may adopt rules for the government of any committee not inconsistent with the provisions of these bylaws.
5.1
OFFICERS
The officers of the corporation shall be a chief executive officer, a chief financial officer and a secretary. The corporation may also have an executive chairman of the board any such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.2 or 5.3 of these bylaws. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
5.2
APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS BY BOARD
The board of directors shall appoint the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer. If the corporation has an executive chairman or president, those officers shall also be appointed by the board of directors. The other officers of the corporation, except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 of these bylaws, shall be appointed by the board of directors and serve at the board's discretion and with such authority as delegated to them by the board.
5.3
APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
The board of directors may empower the chief executive officer to appoint such other officers and agents as the business of the corporation may require, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority, and perform such duties as are provided in these bylaws or as the chief executive officer may from time to time determine.
5.4
REMOVAL AND RESIGNATION OF OFFICERS
Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, (a) by an affirmative vote of the majority of the board of directors at any regular or special meeting of the board, (b) by the chief executive officer, if that officer was appointed by the chief executive officer, or (c) by any other officer to whom the board of directors has conferred the power of removal, provided, however, that only the board of directors may remove the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chairman of the board, executive chairman and president.
Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the corporation.
5.5
VACANCIES IN OFFICES
Any vacancy occurring in any office shall be filled in the manner specified for appointment to such office in Section 5.2 or 5.3.
5.6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Subject to the discretion of the board of directors, the chief executive officer shall have general supervision, direction and control of the business and the other officers of the corporation and the general powers and duties of management generally vested in the office of chief executive officer of a corporation, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or these bylaws. In its discretion, the board of directors may vest certain authority generally vested in the chief executive officer in an executive chairman of the board or another officer of the Company.
5.7
SECRETARY
The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal office of the corporation or such other place as the board of directors may direct, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of directors, committees of directors, and shareholders. The minutes shall show the time and place of each meeting, whether regular or special (and, if special, how authorized and the notice given), the names of those present at directors' meetings or committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at shareholders' meetings, and the proceedings thereof.
The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the corporation or at the office of the corporation's transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the board of directors, a share register, or a duplicate share register, showing the names of all shareholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and date of certificates evidencing such shares, and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.
The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the shareholders and of the board of directors required to be given by law or by these bylaws. He shall keep the seal of the corporation, if one be adopted, in safe custody and shall have such other power and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or by these bylaws.
In the absence of a secretary, or in the event of the secretary's inability or refusal to act, an assistant secretary or assistant secretaries or such other officer selected by the board of directors or by the chief executive officer shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the secretary.
5.8
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
The chief financial officer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings, and shares. The books of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director.
The chief financial officer shall deposit all money and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the corporation with such depositories as may be designated by the board of directors. He shall disburse the funds of the corporation as may be ordered by the board of directors, shall render to the chief executive officer and directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his transactions as chief financial officer and of the financial condition of the corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or these bylaws.
6.1
MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF RECORDS
The corporation shall, to the maximum extent and in the manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware, indemnify each of its directors and officers against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, settlements, and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceeding, arising by reason of the fact that such person is or was an agent of the corporation. For purposes of this Section 6.1, a "director" or "officer" of the corporation includes any person (i) who is or was a director or officer of the corporation, (ii) who is or was servicing at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was a director or officer of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.
6.2
INDEMNIFICATION OF OTHERS
The corporation shall have the power, to the extent and in the manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware, to indemnify each of its employees and agents (other than directors and officers) against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, settlements, and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceeding, arising by reason of the fact that such person is or was an agent of the corporation. For purposes of this Section 6.2, an "employee" or "agent" of the corporation (other than a director or officer) includes any person (i) who is or was an employee or agent of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as an employee or agent or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was an employee or agent of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.
6.3
INSURANCE
The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
7.1
MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF RECORDS
The corporation shall, either at its principal executive office or at such place or places as designated by the board of directors, keep a record of its shareholders listing their names and addresses and the number and class of shares held by each shareholder, a copy of these bylaws as amended to date, accounting books, and other records. Any stockholder of record, in person or by attorney or other agent, shall, upon written demand under oath stating the purpose thereof, have the right during the usual hours for business to inspect for any proper purpose the corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders, and its other books and records and to make copies or extracts therefrom. A proper purpose shall mean a purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as a stockholder. In every instance where an attorney or other agent is the person who seeks the right to inspection, the demand under oath shall be accompanied by a power of attorney of such other writing that authorizes the attorney or other agent to so act on behalf of stockholder. The demand under oath shall be directed to the corporation at its registered office in Delaware or at its principal place of business.
The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for, a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
7.2
INSPECTION BY DIRECTORS
Any director shall have the right to examine the corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders, and its other books and records for a purpose reasonably related to his position as a director. The Court of Chancery is hereby vested with the exclusive jurisdiction to determine whether a director is entitled to the inspection sought. The Court may summarily order the corporation to permit the director to inspect any and all books and records, the stock ledger, and the stock list and to make copies or extracts therefrom. The Court may, in its discretion, prescribe any limitations or conditions with reference to the inspection, or award such other and further relief as the Court may deem just and proper.
7.3
ANNUAL STATEMENT TO STOCKHOLDERS
The board of directors shall present at each annual meeting, and at any special meeting of the stockholders when called for by vote of the stockholders, a full and clear statement of the business and condition of the corporation.
7.4
REPRESENTATION OF SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS
The chairman of the board, the president, any vice president, the chief financial officer, the secretary or assistant secretary of this corporation, or any other person authorized by the board of directors or the president or a vice president, is authorized to vote, represent, and exercise on behalf of this corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name of this corporation. The authority granted herein may be exercised either by such person directly or by any other person authorized to do so by proxy or power of attorney duly executed by such person having the authority.
8.1
CHECKS
From time to time, the board of directors, shall determine by resolution which person or persons may sign or endorse all checks, drafts, other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness that are issued in the name of or payable to the corporation, and only the persons so authorized shall sign or endorse those instruments.
8.2
EXECUTION OF CORPORATE CONTRACTS AND INSTRUMENTS
The board of directors, except as otherwise provided in these bylaws, may authorize any officer or officers, or agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the corporation; such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Unless so authorized or ratified by the board of directors or within the agency power of any officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.
8.3
STOCK CERTIFICATES; PARTLY PAID SHARES
The shares of the corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the board of directors may establish by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the corporation's stock shall be issued or issuable as uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the corporation. Every holder of certificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the corporation by the chairman or vice chairman of the board of directors, or the president or vice president, and by the chief financial officer or an assistant treasurer, or the secretary or an assistant secretary of the corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signatures has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
The corporation may issue the whole or any part of its shares as partly paid and subject to call for the remainder of the consideration to be paid therefor. Upon the face or back of each stock certificate issued to represent any such partly paid shares, or upon the books and records of the corporation in the case of uncertificated partly paid shares, the total amount of the consideration to be paid therefor and the amount paid thereon shall be stated. Upon the declaration of any dividend on fully paid shares, the corporation shall declare a dividend upon partly paid shares of the same class, but only upon the basis of the percentage of the consideration actually paid thereon.
8.4
SPECIAL DESIGNATION CERTIFICATES
If the corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, then the powers, the designations, the preferences, and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate that the corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock; provided, however, that, except as otherwise provided in Section 202 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, in lieu of the foregoing requirements there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate that the corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, the designations, the preferences, and the relatives, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
8.5
LOST CERTIFICATES
Except as provided in this Section 8.5, no new certificates for shares shall be issued to replace a previously issued certificate unless the latter is surrendered to the corporation and canceled at the same time. The corporation may issue a new certificate of stock or uncertificated shares in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to give the corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any uncertificated shares.
8.6
CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS
Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions rules of construction, and definitions in the Delaware General Corporation Law shall govern the construction of these bylaws. Without limiting the generality of this provision, the singular number includes the plural, the plural number includes the singular, the masculine gender includes the feminine, the feminine gender includes the masculine, and the term "Person" includes both a corporation and a natural person.
8.7
DIVIDENDS
The directors of the corporation, subject to any restrictions contained in the certificate of incorporation, may declare and pay dividends upon the shares of its capital stock pursuant to the General Corporation Law of Delaware. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the corporation's capital.
The directors of the corporation may set apart out of any of the funds of the corporation available for dividends a reserve or reserves for any proper purpose and may abolish any such reserves. Such purposes shall include but not be limited to equalizing dividends, repairing or maintaining any property of the corporation, and meeting contingencies.
8.8
FISCAL YEAR
The fiscal year of the corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the board of directors and may be changed by the board of directors. Unless otherwise designated, the fiscal year of the corporation shall end on June 30.
8.9
SEAL
The corporation may adopt a corporate seal, which may be altered at pleasure, and may use the same by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
8.10
TRANSFER OF STOCKS
Upon surrender to the corporation or the transfer agent of the corporation of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignation or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the corporation to issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate, and record the transaction in its books.
8.11
STOCK TRANSFER AGREEMENTS
The corporation shall have power to enter into and perform, any agreement with any number of shareholders of any one or more classes of stock of the corporation to restrict the transfer of shares of stock of the corporation of any one or more classes owned by such stockholders in any manner not prohibited by the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
8.12
REGISTERED STOCKHOLDERS
The corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends and to vote as such owner, shall be entitled to hold liable for calls and assessments the person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of another person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.
The original or other bylaws of the corporation may be adopted, amended or repealed by the stockholders entitled to vote, provided, however, that the corporation may, in its certificate of incorporation, confer the power to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws upon the directors. The fact that such power has been so conferred upon the directors shall not divest the stockholders of the power, nor limit their power to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws.
The undersigned hereby certifies that he is the duly elected, qualified, and acting Secretary of Lam Research Corporation (the "Corporation") and that the foregoing Amended and Restated Bylaws, were adopted as the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company effective as of November 5, 2009 by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
 


