FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20101207163600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
On December 7, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed Stephen G. Newberry as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors. Mr. Newberry will continue to serve as the Company's Chief Executive Officer.
Martin B. Anstice, the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, was appointed by the Company's Board of Directors as President. Mr. Anstice will continue to serve as the Company's Chief Operating Officer.
In connection with the appointments, on December 7, 2010, Mr. Newberry and Mr. Anstice each entered into an amendment to their respective employment agreements with the Company in order to reflect their revised titles.
 
(c) Appointment of New Officer
The information provided in Item 1.01 above is incorporated herein by reference.
Mr. Anstice, 43, joined the Company in April 2001 as Senior Director, Operations Controller, was promoted to the position of Managing Director and Corporate Controller in May 2002, was promoted to Group Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer in June 2004, was named Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer in March 2007, and was promoted to Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, in September 2008. Mr. Anstice began his career at Raychem Corporation where, during his 13-year tenure, he held numerous finance roles of increasing responsibility in Europe and North America. Subsequent to Tyco International's acquisition of Raychem in 1999, he assumed responsibilities supporting mergers and acquisition activities of Tyco Electronics. Mr. Anstice is an associate member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants in the United Kingdom.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Anstice and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Anstice was named as President of the Company. Mr. Anstice does not have any family relationship with any of the Company's directors or executive officers or any persons nominated or chosen by the Company to be a director or executive officer. Mr. Anstice has no direct or indirect material interest in any transaction or proposed transaction required to be reported under Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K or Item 5.02(c) of Form 8-K.
(e) Amendment of Compensatory Arrangements
Effective December 1, 2010, Mr. Anstice's annual base salary was increased from $464,000 to $550,000 and the annual base salary of Richard A. Gottscho, the Company's Senior Vice President, Global Products, was increased from $370,800 to $410,000.
 
On December 7, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Newberry as Vice Chairman and Mr. Anstice as President of the Company. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 7, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Lam Research Corporation Contacts:
Shanye Hudson, Director, Investor Relations, phone: 510/572-4589,
e-mail: shanye.hudson@lamresearch.com
Lisa Garber, Managing Director, Corporate Communications, phone: 510/572-5241,
e-mail: lisa.garber@lamresearch.com
LAM RESEARCH NAMES STEPHEN G. NEWBERRY TO POSITION OF VICE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND PROMOTES MARTIN ANSTICE TO THE POSITION OF PRESIDENT
Lam Research Corporation (NASDAQ: LRCX) today announced that Stephen G. Newberry, chief executive officer of Lam Research, will take on the responsibility of vice chairman of the company's board of directors. Simultaneously, Lam Research has announced that it has promoted Martin Anstice to the position of president, effective immediately. Anstice will also continue to serve as chief operating officer of the company, a position he has held since September 2008.
FREMONT, Calif., Dec. 7, 2010
Commenting on Anstice's promotion, Newberry stated, "Martin has played a key role in taking a company already known for its operational excellence and continuing to grow and build the Company's capabilities. This promotion recognizes the significant contributions he has made to the success of Lam Research and the leadership role he has grown into at the company. As president, he will continue pursuing innovative business initiatives aimed at both increasing our efficiency and growing our business."
Lam Research Corporation is a major provider of wafer fabrication equipment and services to the world's semiconductor industry. Lam's common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market
SM
under the symbol LRCX. Lam Research is a NASDAQ-100
(R)
company. For more information, visit http://www.lamresearch.com/
.


