FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20100910172548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
On September 10, 2010, Lam Research Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $250 million of the Company's common stock from the public market or in private purchases. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, the information in the Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 10, 2010
 
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Lam Research Corporation Contact:
Shanye Hudson, Senior Manager, Investor Relations, phone: 510/572-4589,
e-mail: Shanye.Hudson@lamresearch.com
Lam Research Corporation Announces $250 Million Share Repurchase Program
FREMONT, Calif., September 10, 2010 Lam Research Corporation (NASDAQ: LRCX) today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $250 million of the Company's common stock from the public market or in private purchases. The program is effective immediately.
The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time, and will be funded using the Company's available cash. As of June 27, 2010, Lam Research had approximately $992 million in total gross cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash and investments, and as of August 13, 2010 had approximately 124 million shares outstanding.
"This decision illustrates our confidence in the continued growth and cash generation performance of the company," stated Steve Newberry, president and chief executive officer of Lam Research. "We believe that a stock buyback is an effective way of returning value to Lam's shareholders," Newberry concluded.
Statements made in this press release which are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements relate, but are not limited, to management's plans for repurchasing Company stock under the approvals granted by the Board, management's and the board's confidence in our continued growth and cash generation prospects and the Company's view that share repurchases will be an effective way to return value to our shareholders. These plans are dependent on the Company's future financial condition, and its determinations of the continued value of a repurchase program, changing business conditions in the semiconductor industry and the overall economy and our plans for reacting to those changes, changing customer demands, success of our competitors' strategies including their development of new technologies, and the technical challenges presented by our current product offerings as well as our new products.
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect as well as other risks detailed in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including specifically the report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 27, 2010 which could cause actual results to vary from expectations. The Company undertakes no obligation to update the information or statements made in this press release.
Lam Research Corporation is a major provider of wafer fabrication equipment and services to the world's semiconductor industry. Lam's common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market
SM
under the symbol LRCX. Lam Research is a NASDAQ-100 company. For more information, visit .
http://www.lamresearch.com/


