FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20110210172808.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On February 7, 2011, the Board of Directors of Lam Research Corporation (the "Company"), pursuant to applicable provisions of the Company's bylaws, appointed Michael R. Cannon as a director of the Company, effective February 8, 2011. Mr. Cannon was also named to the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, effective February 8, 2011.
Mr. Cannon is the General Partner of MRC & LBC Partners, LLC. He retired from Dell Inc. in 2009 after serving as Dell's President of Global Operations from 2007 to 2009. Prior to joining Dell, he was President and Chief Executive Officer, and served on the board of directors, of Solectron Corporation, which he joined in 2003. From July 1996 until joining Solectron, Mr. Cannon served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Maxtor Corporation, where he also served on the board. Prior to Maxtor, his management experience included vice president roles at IBM's Storage Systems Division, Control Data Corporation, and The Boeing Company. Mr. Cannon serves on the boards of Adobe Systems, Seagate Technology, and the Elster Group SE. He studied mechanical engineering at Michigan State University and completed the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Cannon and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Cannon was named a director of the Company. Mr. Cannon does not have any family relationship with any of the Company's directors or executive officers or any persons nominated or chosen by the Company to be a director or executive officer. Mr. Cannon has no direct or indirect material interest in any transaction or proposed transaction required to be reported under Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K or Item 5.02(d) of Form 8-K.
Mr. Cannon will receive compensation for his service as a director consistent with the Company's current policies for compensation of outside directors, comprised of:
 
 
 
In accordance with the Company's customary practice, the Company is entering into its standard form of indemnification agreement with Mr. Cannon, which will require the Company to indemnify him against certain liabilities that may arise as result of his status or service as a director. The description of Mr. Cannon's indemnification agreement is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the form of indemnification agreement, which is attached to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 13, 2008 as Exhibit 10.148.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 10, 2011
 


