FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20110418160746.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On April 13, 2011, the Board of Directors of Lam Research Corporation (the "Company"), pursuant to applicable provisions of the Company's bylaws, appointed Christine Heckart as a director of the Company, effective on the date of appointment.
Ms. Heckart is the chief marketing officer at NetApp, Inc., a leading provider of data storage and management solutions. Prior to her position at NetApp, she served as general manager in Microsoft's TV, video and music business, and, before that, she led global marketing at Juniper Networks and was president at TeleChoice, Inc. Ms. Heckart holds a degree in economics from the University of Colorado at Boulder.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Ms. Heckart and any other persons pursuant to which Ms. Heckart was named a director of the Company. Ms. Heckart does not have any family relationship with any of the Company's directors or executive officers or any persons nominated or chosen by the Company to be a director or executive officer. Ms. Heckart has no direct or indirect material interest in any transaction or proposed transaction required to be reported under Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K or Item 5.02(d) of Form 8-K.
Ms. Heckart will receive compensation for her service as a director consistent with the Company's current policies for compensation of non-employee directors, comprised of:
 
 
 
In accordance with the Company's customary practice, the Company is entering into its standard form of indemnification agreement with Ms. Heckart, which will require the Company to indemnify her against certain liabilities that may arise as result of her status or service as a director. The description of Ms. Heckart's indemnification agreement is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the form of indemnification agreement, which is attached to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 13, 2008 as Exhibit 10.148.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 18, 2011
 


