FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20110224163610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
SIGNATURES
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On February 22, 2011, the Board of Directors of Lam Research Corporation (the "Company"), pursuant to applicable provisions of the Company's bylaws, appointed Abhi Talwalkar as a director of the Company, effective on the date of appointment. Mr. Talwalkar was also appointed to serve on the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, effective February 22, 2011.
Mr. Talwalkar is the CEO and President of LSI Corporation, a leading provider of silicon, systems and software technologies for the storage and networking markets. He also serves on the board of directors for LSI and the U.S. Semiconductor Industry Association. Prior to becoming the LSI CEO and President, Mr. Talwalkar acted in several executive leadership roles at Intel. He has a degree in Electronic Engineering from Oregon State.
On February 22, 2011, the Board of Directors, pursuant to applicable provisions of the Company's bylaws, appointed Kim Perdikou as a director of the Company, effective on the date of appointment.
Ms. Perdikou currently serves as executive vice president, Office of the CEO, at Juniper Networks. Before joining Juniper as Chief Information Officer, she served as CIO of Women.com. She holds two masters' degrees: one in information systems from Pace University in New York and a second in education from Jordanhill College in Glasgow, Scotland, as well as a bachelor's degree in computer science from the University of Paisley in Scotland.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Talwalkar or Ms. Perdikou ("New Directors") and any other persons pursuant to which either New Director was named a director of the Company. Neither New Director has any family relationship with any of the Company's directors or executive officers or any persons nominated or chosen by the Company to be a director or executive officer. Neither New Director has a direct or indirect material interest in any transaction or proposed transaction required to be reported under Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K or Item 5.02(d) of Form 8-K.
Each New Director will receive compensation for service as a director consistent with the Company's current policies for compensation of non-employee directors, consisting of:
 
 
In accordance with the Company's customary practice, the Company is entering into its standard form of indemnification agreement with each New Director, which will require the Company to indemnify the New Director against certain liabilities that may arise as result of his or her status or service as a director. The description of the New Directors' indemnification agreements is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the form of indemnification agreement, which is attached to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 13, 2008 as Exhibit 10.148.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 24, 2011
 


