FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20110908164209.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On September 8, 2011, Lam Research Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing that Stephen G. Newberry, the Company's current Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will transition from his role as Chief Executive Officer, effective January 1, 2012. Mr. Newberry will continue in an executive capacity in his role as the Company's Vice Chairman.
 
The Company also announced in the Press Release that Martin B. Anstice, the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer, was appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company to succeed Mr. Newberry as Chief Executive Officer, also effective January 1, 2012.
Mr. Anstice, 44, joined the Company in April 2001 as Senior Director, Operations Controller, was promoted to the position of Managing Director and Corporate Controller in May 2002, was promoted to Group Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer in June 2004, was named Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer in March 2007, was promoted to Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, in September 2008, and was named President in December 2011. Mr. Anstice began his career at Raychem Corporation where, during his 13-year tenure, he held numerous finance roles of increasing responsibility in Europe and North America. Subsequent to Tyco International's acquisition of Raychem in 1999, he assumed responsibilities supporting mergers and acquisition activities of Tyco Electronics. Mr. Anstice is an associate member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants in the United Kingdom.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Anstice and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Anstice was named as Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Mr. Anstice does not have any family relationship with any of the Company's directors or executive officers or any persons nominated or chosen by the Company to be a director or executive officer. Mr. Anstice has no direct or indirect material interest in any transaction or proposed transaction required to be reported under Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K or Item 5.02(c) of Form 8-K.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 8, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the management transitions described in Item 5.02 hereof. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 8, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Company Contacts:
Lisa Garber, 510/572-5241, e-mail:
Corporate Communications:
lisa.garber@lamresearch.com
Shanye Hudson, 510/572-4589, e-mail:
Investor Relations:
shanye.hudson@lamresearch.com
Lam Research Corporation Announces Martin B. Anstice to Succeed Stephen G. Newberry as President and CEO Effective January 1, 2012; Newberry to Continue as Vice Chairman
FREMONT, Calif., September 8, 2011Lam Research Corporation (NASDAQ: LRCX) today announced that the company's Board of Directors has appointed Martin B. Anstice to chief executive officer (CEO), effective January 1, 2012. Anstice succeeds Stephen G. Newberry, who will continue serving as vice chairman, an executive position with the company, after his transition as CEO. Anstice will also maintain his current role as president and chief operating officer.
Commenting on Anstice's promotion, Newberry noted, "As president and chief operating officer, Martin has brought strong leadership to our company. He has more than 10 years of experience at Lam Researchworking closely with our employees, customers, and suppliers; and earning an excellent reputation within the financial community during his tenure as chief financial officer," he said. "Martin has consistently delivered solid results even during one of the most challenging business environments in our industry's history. He is the ideal person to lead the company to our next level of success," Newberry concluded.
Anstice subsequently added, "It is an honor and an incredible opportunity to lead Lam Research. We have great technologies and products and a solid track record of delivering strong operational and financial performancewhich, combined with our talented employees and strong company culturepresents an exciting growth opportunity for us in the years ahead. I would like to thank Steve and the members of the Board for the confidence and trust they've placed in me," said Anstice.
LAM RESEARCH ANNOUNCES CEO TRANSITION...Page 2 of 2
 
Remarking on the transition, James W. Bagley, chairman of Lam Research said, "Steve's leadership, strategic vision, and focus on execution have led to a number of significant company and industry milestones for Lam Research. During his tenure, Lam achieved 50 percent market share in the dry etch market; entered the single-wafer wet clean business; surpassed $3 billion in revenue for fiscal year 2011; and gained the position as the fourth largest wafer fabrication equipment supplier in the world. We pride ourselves on our seamless leadership transitions, with Martin now being the second internal CEO appointment for Lam. The timing of Steve's decision is consistent with Lam's long-term succession plan developed by Steve and the Board over the past few years. Remaining as vice chairman, he will continue to focus on the strategic direction of the company and closely collaborate with Martin, as well as continue to engage with key customers and buy-side shareholders. On behalf of the board, I want to thank Steve for his extraordinary contributions and performance over the last 14 years," concluded Bagley.
Statements made in this press release that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements relate, but are not limited, the future positions, roles, achievements and tenures for Mr. Newberry and Mr. Anstice, and the opportunities for the company and its ability to grow. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and are subject to uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect as well as other risks detailed in documents filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including specifically our report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 26, 2011. These uncertainties and changes could cause actual results to vary from expectations. The Company undertakes no obligation to update the information or statements made in this press release.
Lam Research Corporation is a major provider of wafer fabrication equipment and services to the world's semiconductor industry. Lam's common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market
SM
under the symbol LRCX. Lam Research is a NASDAQ-100
(R)
company. For more information, visit .
www.lamresearch.com


