FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20120209171755.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On February 6, 2012, the Board of Directors of Lam Research Corporation (the "Company"), pursuant to applicable provisions of the Company's bylaws, appointed Martin B. Anstice as a director of the Company effective on the date of the appointment. Mr. Anstice was not named to serve on any Board committees. Mr. Anstice will not receive any compensation solely for his service as a director of the Company. Mr. Anstice, as the Company's president and chief executive officer, is party to an Employment Agreement effective January 1, 2012 with the Company, as previously disclosed in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 5, 2011.
Mr. Anstice, 44, joined the Company in April 2001 as Senior Director, Operations Controller, was promoted to the position of Managing Director and Corporate Controller in May 2002, was promoted to Group Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer in June 2004, was named Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer in March 2007, was promoted to Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, in September 2008, and was named President in December 2010 and Chief Executive Officer effective January 2, 2012. Mr. Anstice began his career at Raychem Corporation where, during his 13-year tenure, he held numerous finance roles of increasing responsibility in Europe and North America. Subsequent to Tyco International's acquisition of Raychem in 1999, he assumed responsibilities supporting mergers and acquisition activities of Tyco Electronics. Mr. Anstice is an associate member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants in the United Kingdom.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Anstice and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Anstice was named as a director of the Company. Mr. Anstice does not have any family relationship with any of the Company's directors or executive officers or any persons nominated or chosen by the Company to be a director or executive officer. Mr. Anstice has no direct or indirect material interest in any transaction or proposed transaction required to be reported under Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K or Item 5.02(d) of Form 8-K.
The Company's press release, dated February  9, 2012, relating to the appointment is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 9, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Lam Research Contacts:
Ed Rebello, Corporate Communications, +1-510-572-6603, edward.rebello@lamresearch.com
Shanye Hudson, Investor Relations, +1-510-572-4589, shanye.hudson@lamresearch.com
Lam Research Names New CEO, Martin Anstice, to Board
FREMONT, Calif., February 9, 2012Lam Research Corp., (NASDAQ:LRCX), a leading global supplier of semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment and services, today announced the expansion of its board of directors with the addition of Martin Anstice, the company's president and chief executive officer.
Anstice joined Lam Research in April 2001, and has served as chief financial officer and president, prior to being named CEO in late 2011. Stephen G. Newberry, who stepped down as CEO at the end of 2011, will continue serving as vice chairman, an executive position with the company.
"Martin is a strong leader who has consistently delivered solid results for Lam over the past ten years," said James W. Bagley, chairman of Lam Research. "His unique perspective as CEO, including in-depth knowledge of issues and challenges facing the company, will benefit board discussions and decisions, going forward, and help the company more closely collaborate with customers on the industry's next major technology transitions. We are very fortunate to have him join our board."
About Lam Research
Lam Research Corp. is a major supplier of wafer fabrication equipment and services to the world's semiconductor industry, where the company has been advancing semiconductor manufacturing for more than 30 years. As a technology and market share leader in plasma etch and single-wafer clean, Lam Research is leveraging its combined expertise to address some of today's most advanced semiconductor processing challenges. Headquartered in Fremont, Calif., Lam Research maintains a global network of service facilities throughout North America, Asia, and Europe to meet the complex and changing needs of its global customer base. Lam's common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market
SM
under the symbol LRCX. Lam Research is a NASDAQ-100 company. For more information, visit http://www.lamresearch.com.


