FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20121017162656.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 17, 2012, Lam Research Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 23, 2012, the text of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section. Furthermore, the information in the Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 17, 2012
 
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Lam Research Corporation Contact:
Shanye Hudson, Investor Relations, phone: 510-572-4589, e-mail:
shanye.hudson@lamresearch.com
Ed Rebello, Corporate Communications, phone: 510-572-6603, e-mail:
edward.rebello@lamresearch.com
Lam Research Corporation Reports Financial Results for the Quarter Ended September 23, 2012
 
 
 
 
FREMONT, Calif., October 17, 2012Lam Research Corporation's (NASDAQ: LRCX) highlights for the September 2012 quarter were:
 
Lam Research Corporation today announced financial results for the quarter ended September 23, 2012. Revenue for the period was $906.9 million, gross margin was $333.9 million, or 36.8%, operating expenses were $317.2 million, and net income was $2.8 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, compared to revenue of $741.8 million, gross margin of $298.2 million, or 40.2%, operating expenses of $265.5 million, and net income of $18.1 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, for the June 2012 quarter. Shipments for the September 2012 quarter were $935 million compared to $816 million during the June 2012 quarter.
In addition to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) results, this commentary contains non-GAAP financial measures. The Company's non-GAAP results for both the September 2012 and June 2012 quarters exclude costs associated with acquisition-related inventory fair value impact, amortization related to intangible assets acquired in the Novellus transaction, certain acquisition and integration-related costs, the amortization of convertible note discounts, and rationalization of certain product configurations. See "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below for additional information.
Non-GAAP net income was $97.0 million, or $0.53 per diluted share, in the September 2012 quarter compared to non-GAAP net income of $80.9 million, or $0.60 per diluted share, for the June 2012 quarter. Non-GAAP gross margin for the September 2012 quarter was $402.3 million, or 44.4%, compared to non-GAAP gross margin of $312.7 million, or 42.1%, for the June 2012 quarter. Gross margin performance reflected solid execution combined with more favorable customer and product mix. Non-GAAP operating expenses for the September 2012 quarter increased to $284.3 million compared with the June quarter of $214.8 million primarily reflecting a full quarter of post-acquisition activity as a combined company.
"Despite a more uncertain industry environment, Lam Research achieved strong financial performance in the September quarter, delivering gross margin and operating profits above the high end of our guidance," said Martin Anstice, Lam's president and chief executive officer. "Our results reflect strong operational execution and solid progress towards the synergy targets that we've outlined. While the near-term outlook for semiconductor equipment demand has softened, we are committed to achieving the appropriate balance between cost management and continued investment in next-generation solutions for our customers. We believe that these activities will drive profitable growth for Lam when industry conditions improve," Anstice concluded.
 
Cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash and investments balances decreased to $2.9 billion at the end of the September 2012 quarter, compared to $3.0 billion at the end of the June 2012 quarter. This decrease was primarily the result of stock repurchases during the quarter, offset by cash flows from operating activities, which were approximately $249 million during the September 2012 quarter. Deferred revenue and deferred profit balances at the end of the September 2012 quarter increased to $363.5 million and $208.1 million, respectively, as compared to $335.4 million and $164.8 million, respectively, at the end of the June 2012 quarter. Lam's deferred revenue balance does not include shipments to Japanese customers, to whom title does not transfer until customer acceptance. Shipments to Japanese customers are classified as inventory at cost until the time of acceptance. The anticipated future revenue from shipments to Japanese customers was approximately $20.7 million as of September 23, 2012.
The geographic distribution of shipments and revenue during the September 2012 quarter is shown in the following table:
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Management uses non-GAAP gross margin, operating income, operating expenses, operating margin, net income, and net income per diluted share to evaluate the Company's operating and financial results. The Company believes the presentation of non-GAAP results is useful to investors for analyzing business trends and comparing performance to prior periods, along with enhancing the investors' ability to view the Company's results from management's perspective. Tables presenting reconciliations of non-GAAP results to U.S. GAAP results are included at the end of this press release and on the Company's web site at http://investor.lamresearch.com.
 
Lam Announces Financial Results for the September 2012 Quarter
Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Statements made in this press release that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements relate, but are not limited, to the anticipated revenue from shipments to Japanese customers, industry conditions, our ability to make progress towards our synergy targets for the Novellus transaction, our ability to achieve the appropriate balance between cost management and continued investment in next-generation solutions for our customers, and our ability to realize profitable growth for Lam. Some factors that may affect these forward-looking statements include: business conditions in the consumer electronics industry, the semiconductor industry and the overall economy; the strength of the financial performance of our existing and prospective customers; the introduction of new and innovative technologies; the occurrence and pace of technology transitions and conversions; the actions of our competitors, consumers, semiconductor companies and key suppliers and subcontractors; and the success of research and development and sales and marketing programs. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and are subject to uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and effect as well as other risks detailed in documents filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including specifically our report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 24, 2012. These uncertainties and changes could cause actual results to vary from expectations. The Company undertakes no obligation to update the information or statements made in this press release.
Lam Research Corporation is a major supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the worldwide semiconductor industry. For more than 30 years, the Company has driven continuous improvements in chip performance, power consumption, and cost, contributing to the global proliferation of smartphones, computers, tablets, and other electronic products. Lam Research has been the leading supplier of high-throughput plasma etch equipment for more than a decade and expanded its product offerings in 2008 to include single-wafer clean systems. The Company added thin-film deposition and wafer surface preparation technologies to its product portfolio in 2012 with the acquisition of Novellus Systems, Inc. Headquartered in Fremont, Calif., Lam Research maintains a global network of service facilities throughout North America, Asia, and Europe to rapidly meet the needs of its global customer base. It is an S&P 500 company and NASDAQ-100 company whose common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market SM under the symbol LRCX. For more information, please visit .
http://www.lamresearch.com
 
Lam Announces Financial Results for the September 2012 Quarter
 
 
 
Lam Announces Financial Results for the September 2012 Quarter
 
 
 
 
Lam Announces Financial Results for the September 2012 Quarter
 
 
 
Lam Announces Financial Results for the September 2012 Quarter
 
 
 
 


