FILE:LRCX/LRCX-8K-20120604170834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
Introductory Note.
This Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed in connection with the consummation on June 4, 2012 of the transactions contemplated by that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 14, 2011 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among Lam Research Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Lam Research"), BLMS Inc., a California corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Lam Research ("Merger Sub") and Novellus Systems, Inc., a California corporation ("Novellus"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, on June 4, 2012, Merger Sub merged with and into Novellus (the "Merger"), with Novellus continuing as the surviving entity. The events described in this Current Report on Form 8-K occurred in connection with the consummation of the Merger.
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Supplemental Indenture
On June 4, 2012, in connection with the consummation of the Merger, Novellus, Lam Research and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), entered into a supplemental indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture") to the Indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of May 10, 2011, between Novellus and the Trustee, relating to the 2.625% Senior Convertible Notes due 2041 of Novellus (the "Notes"). Pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture, Lam Research expressly guarantees, on a senior unsecured basis, the obligations of Novellus under the Indenture and the Notes and agrees that the Notes will be convertible into cash and shares of Lam Research common stock in accordance with the original terms and conditions of the Indenture and the Notes. In the event of a default in the payment of principal, interest or premium (if any) on the Notes, the guarantee may be enforced against Lam Research without first proceeding against Novellus.
Except as set forth in the preceding paragraph, the original terms and conditions of the Indenture and the Notes have not been materially amended by the Supplemental Indenture. A summary of the original terms and conditions of the Indenture and the Notes is set forth in Novellus' Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 10, 2011, which summary is incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
The foregoing summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Indenture, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Novellus' Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 10, 2011 and is incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference, and the Supplemental Indenture, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 4.2 hereto and is incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
Indemnification Agreements
Lam Research's Board of Directors, pursuant to a unanimous written consent executed on June 2, 2012, authorized Lam Research to enter into Indemnification Agreements with each of its Section 16 executive officers and directors. The form of Indemnification Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
Each Indemnification Agreement provides that, subject to certain exclusions, Lam Research shall indemnify the applicable Section 16 executive officer or director to the fullest extent permitted by law, including any greater indemnification that is afforded by a subsequent change in applicable law. The Indemnification Agreement also provides, among other things, for advancement of expenses and independent or disinterested determinations as to whether the standard for indemnification under the Indemnification Agreement has been met, and governs other procedural matters related to indemnification. The rights afforded to the indemnified persons under the Indemnification Agreements are not exclusive of other rights of indemnification such persons may enjoy under Lam Research's bylaws. The foregoing description of the Indemnification Agreements does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of the form of such agreements attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On June 4, 2012, Lam Research completed the business combination with Novellus pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement. At the effective time of the Merger, Merger Sub merged with and into Novellus, with Novellus continuing as the surviving entity and a wholly owned subsidiary of Lam Research. Lam Research stockholders approved the issuance of shares of Lam Research common stock to Novellus shareholders pursuant to the merger contemplated by the Merger Agreement at a special meeting of stockholders held on May 10, 2012.
 
Table of Contents
As a result of the transaction, former Novellus shareholders will receive an aggregate of approximately 83.6 million shares of Lam Research common stock for their shares of Novellus common stock, representing 1.125 shares of Lam Research common stock per share of Novellus common stock.
The foregoing summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Lam Research's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 15, 2011 and which is incorporated into this Item 2.01 by reference.
A copy of the press release issued by Lam Research and Novellus on June 4, 2012 announcing the completion of the Merger is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated into this Item 2.01 by reference.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 is incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference.
Item 3.02. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 is incorporated into this Item 3.02 by reference.
The Notes and the underlying Lam Research common stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes, if any, have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Appointment of Directors
Effective upon the consummation of the Merger, the size of the Lam Research Board of Directors (the "Board") was increased from 11 to 15, and Youssef A. El-Mansy, Krishna Saraswat, William R. Spivey, and Delbert A. Whitaker (the "New Directors"), each of whom is a former director of Novellus, was appointed to the Board.
Each New Director will receive prorated annual compensation for his service as a director consistent with Lam Research's current policies for compensation of non-employee directors.
Youssef A. El-Mansy, Ph.D., has been a director of Novellus Systems since April 2004 and joins the Lam Research board of directors with the Novellus Systems merger. He will serve on Lam Research's Compensation Committee. Dr. El-Mansy is the retired vice president and director of logic technology development, at Intel Corp., a leading producer of microchips, computing and communications products, where he was responsible for managing technology development, the processor design center for Intel's Technology and Manufacturing Group and two wafer manufacturing facilities. Dr. El-Mansy joined Intel in 1979 and led microprocessor technology development at Intel for 20 years. Dr. El-Mansy holds both bachelor's and master's degrees in Electronics and Communications from Alexandria University in Egypt and a Ph.D. in Electronics from Carleton University in Ottawa, Canada.
Krishna Saraswat, Ph.D. has been a director of Novellus Systems since February 2011 and joins the Lam Research board with the Novellus Systems merger. He will serve on Lam Research's Nominating and Governance Committee. Dr. Saraswat has served as the Rickey/Nielsen Professor in the School of Engineering at Stanford University since 2004. He has also served as Professor of Electrical Engineering and a Professor of Material Science and Engineering at Stanford University since 1983. Dr. Saraswat received his bachelor's degree in Electronics in 1968 from the Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, India, and his master's and doctorate degrees in Electrical Engineering in 1969 and 1974, respectively, from Stanford University.
 
Table of Contents
William R. Spivey, Ph.D. has been a director of Novellus Systems since May 1998, and he also currently serves on the boards of directors at Cascade Microtech, Inc., a developer of precision electrical test and measurement solutions, and Raytheon Company, a prime contractor on a broad portfolio of defense systems for government customers. Dr. Spivey will serve on Lam Research's Nominating and Governance Committee. Dr. Spivey was previously president and chief executive officer of Luminent, Inc., a producer of fiber optic components. He also has served as group president of the Network Products Group at Lucent Technologies, on the board of directors of Laid PLC, a global wireless connectivity solutions provider, and has held senior management positions at AT&T Microelectronics, and Tektronix, Inc. Dr. Spivey holds a bachelor's degree in Physics from Duquesne University, a master's degree in Physics from Indiana University of Pennsylvania and a Ph.D. in Management from Walden University.
Delbert A. Whitaker has been a director of Novellus Systems since March 2002. He joins the Lam Research board of directors with the Novellus Systems merger. Mr. Whitaker will serve on Lam Research's Audit Committee. From 1968 until his retirement in 2000, Mr. Whitaker was employed by Texas Instruments, Inc., a semiconductor company, where he held positions including senior vice president of Worldwide Analog and Standard Logic, vice president of the U.S. semiconductor business, and held various management positions in product departments, marketing and sales. Mr. Whitaker holds a bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering from Texas A&M University, where he is a member of the Engineering Advisory Board.
Other than as disclosed in the registration statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-179267) (as amended, modified, or supplemented, the "Registration Statement") filed by Lam Research with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the Merger, there are no arrangements or understandings between any New Director and any other persons pursuant to which such New Director was named as a director of Lam Research. None of the New Directors has any family relationship with any of Lam Research's directors or executive officers or any persons nominated or chosen by Lam Research to be a director or executive officer. Other than as described in the Registration Statement, none of the New Directors has any direct or indirect material interest in any transaction or proposed transaction required to be reported under Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K or Item 5.02(c) of Form 8-K.
In accordance with Lam Research's customary practice, Lam Research will enter into its standard form of indemnification agreement with each New Director, which will require Lam Research to indemnify such New Director against certain liabilities that may arise as result of his status or service as a director, including, in the case of each New Director, a clause making clear that the indemnity agreement covers any claims associated with such New Director consenting to be named in the Registration Statement The description of each New Director's indemnification agreement is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the form of indemnification agreement, which is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
.
Appointment of New Officer
Pursuant to the Employment Agreement between Lam Research and Timothy M. Archer dated as of March 6, 2012, which was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Registration Statement, and effective upon the consummation of the Merger, Mr. Archer became the Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer of Lam Research.
Mr. Archer, 45, served as Novellus' Chief Operating Officer since January 2011. After joining Novellus in 1994, Mr. Archer held a number of positions, including Executive Vice President of Sales, Marketing and Customer Satisfaction from September 2009 to January 2011; Executive Vice President, PECVD and Electrofill Business Units from November 2008 to September 2009; Senior Vice President, PECVD and Electrofill from September 2007 to November 2008; Senior Vice President, Dielectrics Business Group from February 2006 to September 2007; Senior Vice President, PECVD and Electrofill Business Unit from October 2005 to February 2006; Vice President and General Manager for the Electrofill Business Unit from April 2002 to October 2005; Senior Director of Technology for the Electrofill Business Unit from April 2001 to April 2002; and Senior Director of Technology for Novellus Systems Japan from July 1999 to April 2001. Prior to joining Novellus,
 
Table of Contents
Mr. Archer was employed at Tektronix, Inc., a provider of communications network management and diagnostic solutions. Mr. Archer completed the Program for Management Development at Harvard Business School and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Applied Physics from the California Institute of Technology.
Other than as described in the Registration Statement, there are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Archer and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Archer was named as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer of Lam Research. Mr. Archer does not have any family relationship with any of Lam Research's directors or executive officers or any persons nominated or chosen by Lam Research to be a director or executive officer. Other than as described in the Registration Statement, Mr. Archer has no direct or indirect material interest in any transaction or proposed transaction required to be reported under Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K or Item 5.02(c) of Form 8-K.
In accordance with Lam Research's customary practice, Lam Research will enter into its standard form of indemnification agreement with Mr. Archer, which will require Lam Research to indemnify Mr. Archer against certain liabilities that may arise as result of his status or service as an executive officer of Lam Research. The description of Mr. Archer's indemnification agreement is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the form of indemnification agreement, which is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On and effective June 2, 2012, the Board of Directors of Lam Research approved the amendment and restatement of Lam Research's bylaws. The amendment and restatement made the following changes to the bylaws:
 
 
 
This description of the amended and restated Bylaws does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the amended and restated bylaws, attached as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
The audited consolidated balance sheets of Novellus as of December 31, 2011, and December 31, 2010, and the audited consolidated statements of operations and consolidated statements of cash flows of Novellus for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, and the notes related thereto, will be filed by amendment to this Form 8-K no later than August 17, 2012.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of December 31, 2011 and the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, and the notes related thereto, will be filed by amendment to this Form 8-K no later than August 17, 2012.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 4, 2012
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
1.1
REGISTERED OFFICE
The registered office of the corporation shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware. The name of the registered agent of the corporation at such location is The Corporation Trust Company.
1.2
OTHER OFFICES
The board of directors may at any time establish other offices at any place or places where the corporation is qualified to do business.
2.1
PLACE OF MEETINGS
Meetings of stockholders shall be held at any place, within or outside the State of Delaware, designated by the board of directors. In the absence of any such designation, stockholders' meetings shall be held at the registered office of the Corporation.
2.2
ANNUAL MEETING
(a) An annual meeting of the stockholders, for the election of directors to succeed those whose terms expire and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting, shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as the board of directors shall each year fix.
(b) Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors and the proposal of business to be transacted by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (1) pursuant to the corporation's proxy materials with respect to such meeting, (2) by or at the direction of the board of directors, or (3) by any stockholder of record of the corporation (the "Record Stockholder") at the time of the giving of the notice required in the following paragraph, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who has complied with the notice procedures set forth in this section. For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing clause (3) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or propose business (other than business included in the corporation's proxy materials pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (such act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the "Exchange Act")) at an annual meeting of stockholders.
(c) For nominations or business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a Record Stockholder pursuant to clause (3) of the foregoing paragraph, (1) the Record Stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the secretary of the corporation, (2) any such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action under Delaware law and (3) the Record Stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf any such proposal or nomination is made, must have acted in accordance with the representations set forth in the Solicitation Statement required by these bylaws. To be timely, a Record Stockholder's notice shall be received by the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 45 or more than 75 days prior to the one-year anniversary of the date on which the corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that, subject to the last sentence of this Section 2.2(c), if the meeting is convened more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 30 days after the anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, or if no annual meeting was held in the preceding year, notice by the Record Stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the later of (i) the 90th day before such annual meeting or (ii) the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. Notwithstanding anything in the preceding sentence to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the board of directors is increased and there has been no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or indicating the increase in the size of the board of directors made by the corporation at least 10 days before the last day a Record Stockholder may deliver a notice of nomination in accordance with the preceding sentence, a Record Stockholder's notice required by this bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be received by the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation. In no event shall an adjournment, or postponement of an annual meeting for which notice has been given, commence a new time period for the giving of a Record Stockholder's notice.
(d) Such Record Stockholder's notice shall set forth:
1. if such notice pertains to the nomination of directors, as to each person whom the Record Stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director, all information relating to such person as would be required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for the election of such nominees as directors pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act, such person's written consent to serve as a director if elected, and a statement whether such person, if elected, intends to tender, promptly following such person's election or re-election, an irrevocable resignation effective upon such person's failure to receive the required vote for re-election at the next meeting at which such person would face re-election and upon acceptance of such resignation by the board of directors, in accordance with the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines;
 
2. as to any business that the Record Stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of such business, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such Record Stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and
3. as to (1) the Record Stockholder giving the notice and (2) the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (each, a "party"):
(i) the name and address of each such party;
(ii)(A) the class, series, and number of shares of the corporation that are owned, directly or indirectly, beneficially and of record by each such party, (B) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the corporation or otherwise (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by each such party, and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation, (C) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which either party has a right to vote, directly or indirectly, any shares of any security of the corporation, (D) any short interest in any security of the corporation held by each such party (for purposes of this Section 2.2(d), a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (E) any rights to dividends on the shares of the corporation owned beneficially directly or indirectly by each such party that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the corporation, (F) any proportionate interest in shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which either party is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (G) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that each such party is directly or indirectly entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of each such party's immediate family sharing the same household (which information set forth in this paragraph shall be supplemented by such stockholder or such
 
beneficial owner, as the case may be, not later than ten (10) days after the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting; provided, that if such date is after the date of the meeting, not later than the day prior to the meeting);
(iii) any other information relating to each such party that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act; and
(iv) a statement whether or not each such party will deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of, in the case of a proposal, at least the percentage of voting power of all of the shares of capital stock of the corporation required under applicable law to carry the proposal or, in the case of a nomination or nominations, at least the percentage of voting power of all of the shares of capital stock of the corporation reasonably believed by the Record Stockholder or beneficial holder, as the case may be, to be sufficient to elect the nominee or nominees proposed to be nominated by the Record Stockholder (such statement, a "Solicitation Statement").
(e) A person shall not be eligible for election or re-election as a director at an annual meeting unless (i) the person is nominated by a Record Stockholder in accordance with Section 2.2(b)(3) or (ii) the person is nominated by or at the direction of the board of directors. Only such business shall be conducted at an annual meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section. The chairman of the meeting shall have the power and the duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting has been made in accordance with the procedures set forth in these bylaws and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with these bylaws, to declare that such defectively proposed business or nomination shall not be presented for stockholder action at the meeting and shall be disregarded.
(f) For purposes of these bylaws, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(g) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.2, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to matters set forth in this Section 2.2. Nothing in this Section 2.2 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
 
2.3
SPECIAL MEETING
(a) Special meetings of the stockholders, other than those required by statute, may be called only by the board of directors, the chairman of the board or the president. The board of directors may postpone or reschedule any previously scheduled special meeting.
(b) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the board of directors. The notice of such special meeting shall include the purpose for which the meeting is called. Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected (1) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (2) by any stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this paragraph, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who delivers a written notice to the secretary setting forth the information set forth in Section 2.2(d)(1) and 2.2(d)(3) of this Article II. Nominations by stockholders of persons for election to the board of directors may be made at such a special meeting of stockholders only if such stockholder of record's notice required by the preceding sentence shall be received by the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the board of directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall an adjournment, or postponement of a special meeting for which notice has been given, commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder of record's notice. A person shall not be eligible for election or reelection as a director at a special meeting unless the person is nominated (i) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (ii) by a stockholder of record in accordance with the notice procedures set forth in this Article II.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.3, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to matters set forth in this Section 2.3. Nothing in this Section 2.3 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
2.4
NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDERS' MEETINGS
All notices of meetings with stockholders shall be in writing and shall be sent or otherwise given in accordance with Section 2.5 of these bylaws not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, except as otherwise required by these bylaws, the certificate of incorporation or the General Corporation Law of Delaware. The notice shall specify the place, date, and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.
 
2.5
MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE; AFFIDAVIT OF NOTICE
Written notice of any meeting of stockholders, if mailed, is given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the corporation. Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders, any notice to stockholders may be given by electronic transmission in the manner provided in Section 232 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware. An affidavit of the secretary or an assistant secretary or of the transfer agent of the corporation that the notice has been given shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
2.6
QUORUM
The holders of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business except as otherwise provided by statute or by the certificate of incorporation. If, however, such quorum is not present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, then either (i) the chairman of the meeting or (ii) the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present or represented, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed.
2.7
ADJOURNED MEETING; NOTICE
When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, unless these bylaws otherwise require, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the corporation may transact any business that might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
2.8
VOTING
The stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.11 of these bylaws, subject to the provisions of Sections 217 and 218 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware (relating to voting rights of fiduciaries, pledgors and joint owners of stock and to voting trusts and other voting agreements). Each stockholder represented at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder. The board of directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the corporation presiding at a meeting of stockholders, in his discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot.
 
A nominee for director shall be elected to the Board of Directors if the votes cast for such nominee's election exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election (with abstentions and "broker non-votes" not counted as votes cast either for or against such nominee's election); provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any meeting of stockholders at which (i) the number of nominees for the board exceeds the number of open board seats; (ii) one or more nominees has been nominated pursuant to the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees set forth in these bylaws or pursuant to the provisions of any future law, rule or regulation that require the Corporation to allow stockholder nominations in a manner other than that provided in these bylaws; and (iii) any such nomination has not been withdrawn on or before the tenth day before the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders. If directors are to be elected by a plurality of the votes cast, stockholders shall not be permitted to vote against a nominee.
When a quorum is present at any meeting, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the stock having voting power present in person or represented by proxy shall decide any question brought before such meeting (other than director elections), unless the question is one upon which, by express provision of the statutes or of the Certificate of Incorporation, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of the question.
2.9
WAIVER OF NOTICE
Whenever notice is required to be given under any provision of the General Corporation Law of Delaware or of the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws.
2.10
STOCKHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, any action required by this chapter to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of a corporation, or any action that may be taken at any annual or special meeting of such stockholders, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice, and without a vote if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, is signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.
 
Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing. If the action which is consented to is such as would have required the filing of a certificate under any section of the General Corporation Law of Delaware if such action had been voted on by stockholders at a meeting thereof, then the certificate filed under such section shall state, in lieu of any statement required by such section concerning any vote of stockholders, that written notice and written consent have been given as provided in Section 228 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the board of directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors, and which date shall not be more than ten (10) days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the secretary, request the board of directors to fix a record date. The board of directors shall promptly, but in all events within ten (10) days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the board of directors within ten (10) days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the board of directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business or an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded, to the attention of the secretary of the corporation. Delivery shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the board of directors and prior action by the board of directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the board of directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
In the event of the delivery to the corporation of a written consent or consents purporting to authorize or take corporate action and/or related revocations (each such written consent and any revocation thereof is referred to in this Section 2.10 as a "Consent"), the secretary of the corporation shall provide for the safekeeping of such Consents and shall as soon as practicable thereafter conduct such reasonable investigation as he deems necessary or appropriate for the purpose of ascertaining the validity of such Consents and all matters incident thereto, including, without limitation, whether the holders of shares having the requisite voting power to authorize or take the action specified in the Consents have given consents. No consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be effective unless delivered to the corporation within sixty (60) days of the earliest dated consent delivered to the corporation.
 
2.11
RECORD DATE FOR STOCKHOLDER NOTICE; VOTING
Except as otherwise permitted by law, in order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall be not more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action.
If the board of directors does not so fix a record date:
(i) The record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
(ii) The record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board of directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the board of directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
2.12
PROXIES
Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or to express consent or dissent to corporate action in writing without a meeting may authorize another person or persons to act for him by a written proxy, signed by the stockholder and filed with the secretary of the corporation, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three (3) years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A proxy shall be deemed signed if the stockholder's name is placed on the proxy (whether by manual signature, typewriting, telegraphic transmission or otherwise) by the stockholder or the stockholder's attorney-in-fact. The revocability of a proxy that states on its face that it is irrevocable shall be governed by the provisions of Section 212(e) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
2.13
LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS ENTITLED TO VOTE
The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of a corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder; provided, however, if the record date for determining the stockholders
 
entitled to vote is less than 10 days before the meeting date, the list shall reflect the stockholders entitled to vote as of the 10th day before the meeting date. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, in the manner provided by law. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. Such list shall presumptively determine the identity of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting and the number of shares held by each of them.
2.14
CONDUCT OF BUSINESS
The chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall determine the order of business and the procedures at the meeting, including such matters as the regulation of the manner of voting and the conduct of business.
2.15 ORGANIZATION
Such person as the Board of Directors may have designated or, in the absence of such a person, the chairman of the board or, in his or her absence, the president of the Corporation or, in his or her absence, such person as may be chosen by the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares entitled to vote who are present, in person or by proxy, shall call to order any meeting of the stockholders and act as chairman of the meeting. In the absence of the secretary of the Corporation, the secretary of the meeting shall be such person as the chairman of the meeting appoints. Whether or not a quorum is present or represented at any meeting of stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power to adjourn such meeting to another place, date and time.
3.1
POWERS
Subject to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware and any limitations in the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws relating to action required to be approved by the stockholders or by the outstanding shares, the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the board of directors.
 
3.2
NUMBER OF DIRECTORS
The number of directors constituting the whole board of directors shall be eleven, provided that the board of directors may change such number (but not below the number of directors then in office) by resolution from time to time within a range of seven to fifteen directors.
No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director before that director's term of office expires.
3.3
ELECTION, QUALIFICATION AND TERM OF OFFICE OF DIRECTORS
Except as provided in Section 3.4 of these bylaws, directors shall be elected at each annual meeting of stockholders to hold office until the next annual meeting. Directors need not be stockholders unless so required by the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, wherein other qualifications for directors may be prescribed. Each director, including a director elected to fill a vacancy, shall hold office until his successor is elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal.
Elections of directors need not be by written ballot unless a stockholder demands election by written ballot at the meeting and before voting begins.
3.4
RESIGNATION AND VACANCIES
Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the corporation. A resignation is effective when it is delivered unless the resignation specifies a later effective date or an effective date determined upon the happening of an event or events. When one or more directors so resigns, a majority of the directors then in office (although less than a quorum), or a sole remaining director, shall have power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, and each director so chosen shall hold office as provided in this section in the filling of other vacancies. When one or more directors resigns and the resignation is effective at a future date or upon the happening of a future event, a majority of the directors then in office (although less than a quorum), or a sole remaining director, including those who have so resigned, shall have power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when such resignation or resignations shall become effective, and each director so chosen shall hold office as provided in this section in the filling of other vacancies.
A vacancy created by the removal of a director by the vote or written consent of the stockholders or by a court order may be filled only by the vote of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon represented at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present. Each director so elected shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until a successor has been elected and qualified.
 
Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws:
(i) Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors elected by all of the stockholders having the right to vote as a single class may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.
(ii) Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may be filled by a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series thereof then in office, or by a sole remaining director so elected.
If at any time, by reason of death or resignation or other cause, the corporation should have no directors in office, then any officer or any stockholder or an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of a stockholder, or other fiduciary entrusted with like responsibility for the person or estate of a stockholder, may call a special meeting of stockholders in accordance with the provisions of the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, or may apply to the Court of Chancery for a decree summarily ordering an election as provided in Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
If, at the time of filling any vacancy or any newly created directorship, the directors then in office constitute less than a majority of the whole board (as constituted immediately prior to any such increase), then the Court of Chancery may, upon application of any stockholder or stockholders holding at least ten (10) percent of the total number of the shares at the time outstanding having the right to vote for such directors, summarily order an election to be held to fill any such vacancies or newly created directorships, or to replace the directors chosen by the directors then in office as aforesaid, which election shall be governed by the provisions of Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware as far as applicable.
A director elected or appointed to fill a vacancy or newly created directorship shall serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders or until a successor shall be elected and qualified.
3.5
PLACE OF MEETINGS; MEETINGS BY TELEPHONE
The board of directors of the corporation may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or outside the State of Delaware.
Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, members of the board of directors, or any committee designated by the board of directors, may participate in a meeting of the board of directors, or any committee, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
 
3.6 [RESERVED]
3.7
REGULAR MEETINGS
Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held without notice if the times of such meetings are fixed by the board of directors.
3.8
SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE
Notice of the time and place of special meetings shall be given to each director at that director's address as it is shown on the records of the corporation. Notice of such special meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either (i) by mail not less than four (4) days before the date of the meeting, or (ii) personally, by telephone, telecopy, telegram, telex or other similar means of communication on twenty-four (24) hours' notice, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances. Any oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated either to the director or to a person at the office of the director whom the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director.
3.9
QUORUM
At all meetings of the board of directors, a majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the board of directors, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by statute or by the certificate of incorporation. If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the board of directors, then the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present.
3.10
WAIVER OF NOTICE
Whenever notice is required to be given under any provision of the General Corporation Law of Delaware or of the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, or a waiver by electronic transmission by such person, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the directors, or members of a committee of directors, need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws.
 
3.11
ADJOURNED MEETING; NOTICE
If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the board of directors, then the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present.
3.12
BOARD ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the board of directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the board or committee. Any reference in these bylaws to action in writing shall include action by electronic transmission to the fullest extent permitted by law.
3.13
FEES AND COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, the board of directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors. The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attending each meeting of the board of directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attending each meeting of the board of directors or a stated salary as director. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.
3.14
APPROVAL OF LOANS TO OFFICERS
The corporation may lend money to, or guarantee any obligation of, or otherwise assist any officer or other employee of the corporation or of its subsidiaries who is not an "executive officer" (as such term is defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) or a director of the corporation, whenever in the judgment of the directors, such loan, guaranty or assistance may reasonably be expected to benefit the corporation. The loan, guaranty or other assistance may be with or without interest and may be unsecured, or secured in such manner as the board of directors shall approve, including, without limitation, a pledge of shares of stock of the corporation. Nothing in this section contained shall be deemed to deny, limit or restrict the powers of guaranty or warranty of the corporation at common law or under any statute.
3.15
REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS
Unless otherwise restricted by statute, by the certificate of incorporation or by these bylaws, any director or the entire board of directors may be removed, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors.
 
No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director prior to the expiration of such director's term of office.
3.16
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The corporation may also have, at the discretion of the board of directors, a chairman of the board of directors as well as a vice chairman, neither of whom shall be considered an officer of the corporation solely by reason of being appointed to either position.
4.1
COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS
The board of directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole board, from time to time, pursuant to the authority granted in subsection (2) of section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, designate one or more committees of the board, with such lawfully delegable powers and duties as it thereby confers, to serve at the pleasure of the board and shall, for those committees and any others provided for herein, elect a director or directors to serve as the member or members, designating, if it desires, other directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the board of directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
4.2
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the board of directors when required.
4.3
MEETINGS AND ACTION OF COMMITTEES
The board of directors or a committee may adopt rules for the governance of any committee. A majority of the members of a committee shall constitute a quorum. All matters shall be determined by a majority vote of the members present.
 
5.1
OFFICERS
The officers of the corporation shall be a chief executive officer, a chief financial officer and a secretary. The corporation may also have an executive chairman of the board, an executive vice-chairman of the board and any such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.2 or 5.3 of these bylaws. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
5.2
APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS BY BOARD
The board of directors shall appoint the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer. If the corporation has an executive chairman, executive vice-chairman or president, those officers shall also be appointed by the board of directors. The other officers of the corporation, except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 of these bylaws, shall be appointed by the board of directors and serve at the board's discretion and with such authority as delegated to them by the board.
5.3
APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
The board of directors may empower the chief executive officer to appoint such other officers and agents as the business of the corporation may require, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority, and perform such duties as are provided in these bylaws or as the chief executive officer may from time to time determine.
5.4
REMOVAL AND RESIGNATION OF OFFICERS
Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, (a) by an affirmative vote of the majority of the board of directors at any regular or special meeting of the board, (b) by the chief executive officer, if that officer was appointed by the chief executive officer, or (c) by any other officer to whom the board of directors has conferred the power of removal, provided, however, that only the board of directors may remove the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chairman of the board, executive chairman and president.
Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the corporation.
5.5
VACANCIES IN OFFICES
Any vacancy occurring in any office shall be filled in the manner specified for appointment to such office in Section 5.2 or 5.3.
 
5.6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Subject to the discretion of the board of directors, the chief executive officer shall have general supervision, direction and control of the business and the other officers of the corporation and the general powers and duties of management generally vested in the office of chief executive officer of a corporation, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or these bylaws. In its discretion, the board of directors may vest certain authority generally vested in the chief executive officer in an executive chairman of the board or another officer of the Company.
5.7
SECRETARY
The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal office of the corporation or such other place as the board of directors may direct, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of directors, committees of directors, and shareholders.
The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the corporation or at the office of the corporation's transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the board of directors, a share register, or a duplicate share register, showing the names of all shareholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and date of certificates evidencing such shares, and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.
The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the shareholders and of the board of directors required to be given by law or by these bylaws. He shall keep the seal of the corporation, if one be adopted, in safe custody and shall have such other power and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or by these bylaws.
In the absence of a secretary, or in the event of the secretary's inability or refusal to act, an assistant secretary or assistant secretaries or such other officer selected by the board of directors or by the chief executive officer shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the secretary.
5.8
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
The chief financial officer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings, and shares. The books of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director.
The chief financial officer shall deposit all money and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the corporation with such depositories as may be designated by the board of directors. He shall disburse the funds of the corporation as may be ordered by
 
the board of directors, shall render to the chief executive officer and directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his transactions as chief financial officer and of the financial condition of the corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or these bylaws.
6.1
INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
The corporation shall, to the maximum extent and in the manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware, indemnify each of its directors and officers (each, an "Indemnitee") against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, settlements, and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceeding, arising by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the corporation. For purposes of this Section 6.1, a "director" or "officer" of the corporation includes any person (i) who is or was a director or officer of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was a director or officer of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.
Notwithstanding any other provision in these bylaws to the contrary, the corporation shall not be obligated to make any indemnity: (a) for which payment has actually been made to or on behalf of Indemnitee under any insurance policy or other indemnity provision, except with respect to any excess beyond the amount paid under any insurance policy or other indemnity provision; (b) for an accounting of profits made from the purchase and sale (or sale and purchase) by Indemnitee of securities of the corporation within the meaning of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or similar provisions of state statutory law or common law; (c) for claims initiated or brought by Indemnitee, except (i) with respect to actions or proceedings brought to establish or enforce a right to receive advancement or indemnification under any statute, the certificate of incorporation, these bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or directors or otherwise, (ii) if the board has approved the initiation or bringing of such claim, or (iii) as otherwise required under the General Corporation Law of Delaware; or (d) for which payment is prohibited by applicable law.
6.2
INDEMNIFICATION OF OTHERS
The corporation shall have the power, to the extent and in the manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware, to indemnify each of its employees and agents (other than directors and officers) against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, settlements, and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceeding, arising by reason of the fact that such person is or was an agent of the corporation. For purposes of this Section 6.2, an "employee" or "agent" of
 
the corporation (other than a director or officer) includes any person (i) who is or was an employee or agent of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation as an employee or agent or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was an employee or agent of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.
6.3
INSURANCE
The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
6.4
NON-EXCLUSIVITY OF RIGHTS
The rights to indemnification conferred in this Article VI shall not be exclusive of any other right that any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, the certificate of incorporation, these bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or directors or otherwise.
7.1
MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF RECORDS
The corporation shall, either at its principal executive office or at such place or places as designated by the board of directors, keep a record of its shareholders listing their names and addresses and the number and class of shares held by each shareholder, a copy of these bylaws as amended to date, accounting books, and other records. Any stockholder of record, in person or by attorney or other agent, shall, upon written demand under oath stating the purpose thereof, have the right during the usual hours for business to inspect for any proper purpose the corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders, and its other books and records and to make copies or extracts therefrom. A proper purpose shall mean a purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as a stockholder. In every instance where an attorney or other agent is the person who seeks the right to inspection, the demand under oath shall be accompanied by a power of attorney or such other writing that authorizes the attorney or other agent to so act on behalf of stockholder. The demand under oath shall be directed to the corporation at its registered office in Delaware or at its principal place of business. The list of stockholders entitled to vote at a stockholder meeting shall be available in accordance with Section 2.13.
 
7.2
INSPECTION BY DIRECTORS
Any director shall have the right to examine the corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders, and its other books and records for a purpose reasonably related to his position as a director. The Court of Chancery is hereby vested with the exclusive jurisdiction to determine whether a director is entitled to the inspection sought. The Court may summarily order the corporation to permit the director to inspect any and all books and records, the stock ledger, and the stock list and to make copies or extracts therefrom. The Court may, in its discretion, prescribe any limitations or conditions with reference to the inspection, or award such other and further relief as the Court may deem just and proper.
7.3 [RESERVED]
7.4
REPRESENTATION OF SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS
The chairman of the board, the president, any vice president, the chief financial officer, the secretary or assistant secretary of this corporation, or any other person authorized by the board of directors or the president or a vice president, is authorized to vote, represent, and exercise on behalf of this corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name of this corporation. The authority granted herein may be exercised either by such person directly or by any other person authorized to do so by proxy or power of attorney duly executed by such person having the authority.
8.1
CHECKS
From time to time, the board of directors shall determine by resolution which person or persons may sign or endorse all checks, drafts, other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness that are issued in the name of or payable to the corporation, and only the persons so authorized shall sign or endorse those instruments.
8.2
EXECUTION OF CORPORATE CONTRACTS AND INSTRUMENTS
The board of directors, except as otherwise provided in these bylaws, may authorize any officer or officers, or agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the corporation; such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Unless so authorized or ratified by the board of directors or within the agency power of any officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.
 
8.3
STOCK CERTIFICATES; PARTLY PAID SHARES
The shares of the corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the board of directors may establish by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the corporation's stock shall be issued or issuable as uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the corporation. Every holder of certificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the corporation by the chairman or vice chairman of the board of directors, or the president or vice president, and by the treasurer or an assistant treasurer, or the secretary or an assistant secretary of the corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signatures has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
The corporation may issue the whole or any part of its shares as partly paid and subject to call for the remainder of the consideration to be paid therefor. Upon the face or back of each stock certificate issued to represent any such partly paid shares, or upon the books and records of the corporation in the case of uncertificated partly paid shares, the total amount of the consideration to be paid therefor and the amount paid thereon shall be stated. Upon the declaration of any dividend on fully paid shares, the corporation shall declare a dividend upon partly paid shares of the same class, but only upon the basis of the percentage of the consideration actually paid thereon.
8.4
SPECIAL DESIGNATION CERTIFICATES
If the corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, then the powers, the designations, the preferences, and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate that the corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock; provided, however, that, except as otherwise provided in Section 202 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, in lieu of the foregoing requirements there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate that the corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, the designations, the preferences, and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
 
8.5
LOST CERTIFICATES
Except as provided in this Section 8.5, no new certificates for shares shall be issued to replace a previously issued certificate unless the latter is surrendered to the corporation and canceled at the same time. The corporation may issue a new certificate of stock or uncertificated shares in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to give the corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or uncertificated shares.
8.6
CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS
Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction, and definitions in the General Corporation Law of Delaware shall govern the construction of these bylaws. Without limiting the generality of this provision, the singular number includes the plural, the plural number includes the singular, the masculine gender includes the feminine, the feminine gender includes the masculine, and the term "Person" includes both a corporation and a natural person.
8.7
DIVIDENDS
The directors of the corporation, subject to any restrictions contained in the certificate of incorporation, may declare and pay dividends upon the shares of its capital stock pursuant to the General Corporation Law of Delaware. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the corporation's capital.
The directors of the corporation may set apart out of any of the funds of the corporation available for dividends a reserve or reserves for any proper purpose and may abolish any such reserves. Such purposes shall include but not be limited to equalizing dividends, repairing or maintaining any property of the corporation, and meeting contingencies.
8.8
FISCAL YEAR
The fiscal year of the corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the board of directors and may be changed by the board of directors. Unless otherwise designated, the fiscal year of the corporation shall end on June 30.
8.9
SEAL
The corporation may adopt a corporate seal, which may be altered at pleasure, and may use the same by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
 
8.10
TRANSFER OF STOCKS
Upon surrender to the corporation or the transfer agent of the corporation of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignation or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the corporation to issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate, and record the transaction in its books.
8.11
STOCK TRANSFER AGREEMENTS
The corporation shall have power to enter into and perform any agreement with any number of shareholders of any one or more classes of stock of the corporation to restrict the transfer of shares of stock of the corporation of any one or more classes owned by such stockholders in any manner not prohibited by the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
8.12
REGISTERED STOCKHOLDERS
The corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends and to vote as such owner, shall be entitled to hold liable for calls and assessments the person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of another person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.
8.13
FORUM FOR CERTAIN ACTIONS
Unless the corporation consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the corporation, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of the corporation to the corporation or the corporation's stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine.
 
The original or other bylaws of the corporation may be adopted, amended or repealed by the stockholders entitled to vote, provided, however, that the corporation may, in its certificate of incorporation, confer the power to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws upon the directors. The fact that such power has been so conferred upon the directors shall not divest the stockholders of the power, nor limit their power to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws.
 
The undersigned hereby certifies that he is the duly elected, qualified, and acting Secretary of Lam Research Corporation (the "Corporation") and that the foregoing Amended and Restated Bylaws were adopted as the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company effective as of June 2, 2012 by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
        
/s/ GEORGE M. SCHISLER, JR.
        
George M. Schisler, Jr., Secretary
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of June 4, 2012, among Novellus Systems, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of California, as Issuer (the ""), having its principal office at 4000 North First Street, San Jose, California 95134; Lam Research Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, as Guarantor (""), having its principal office at 4650 Cushing Parkway, Fremont, California 94538; and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as Trustee (the "").
Company
Parent
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee are parties to an Indenture, dated as of May 10, 2011 (as amended and supplemented, the ""), providing for the issuance of the Company's 2.625% Senior Convertible Notes due 2041 (the "").
Indenture
Securities
WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 14, 2011 (the ""), among Parent, BLMS Inc., a California corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (""), and the Company, Parent will acquire all outstanding shares of the Company effective on the date hereof upon the consummation of the merger contemplated by the Merger Agreement (such time of effectiveness, the "").
Merger Agreement
Merger Sub
Effective Time
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 1.6(a) of the Merger Agreement, each share of common stock, no par value, of the Company (the ""), issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than any Company Shares to be canceled pursuant to Section 1.6(b) thereof and any Dissenting Company Shares (as defined in the Merger Agreement)) will be canceled and converted automatically into the right to receive 1.125 fully paid and nonassessable shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of Parent (the "").
Company Shares
Parent Shares
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 5.16(b) of the Merger Agreement, Parent has agreed to enter into a supplemental indenture in respect of the Securities containing the provisions required by the Indenture, including a provision that, at the Effective Time, (1) each outstanding Security will no longer be convertible into Company Shares and will be convertible solely into Parent Shares and cash, pursuant to, and in accordance with, the terms of the Indenture, and (2) Parent will assume all of the obligations of the Company under the Securities, any coupons appertaining thereto and the Indenture.
WHEREAS, Section 8.07(a) of the Indenture requires that, upon the occurrence of, among other things, any consolidation, merger or combination of the Company with another Person, in each case as a result of which the Company Shares would be converted into, or exchanged for, stock, other securities, other property or assets (including cash or any combination thereof), then, at the effective time of the transaction, the right to convert a Security will be changed to a right to convert each $1,000 principal amount of such Security into the kind and amount of shares of stock, other securities or other property or assets (including cash or any combination thereof) that a holder of a number of Company Shares equal to the Conversion Rate immediately prior to such transaction would have owned or been entitled to receive (the "") upon such transaction.
Reference Property
WHEREAS, Section 10.01 of the Indenture provides, among other things, that the Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person unless the Surviving Entity expressly assumes by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee, all of the Company's obligations under the Securities and the Indenture and that, if upon the occurrence of any such consolidation, merger, sale, conveyance, transfer or lease the Securities would become convertible into securities issued by an issuer other than the Surviving Entity, the issuer of the securities into which the Securities have become convertible shall fully and unconditionally guarantee, on a senior basis, the Surviving Entity's obligations under the Securities.
WHEREAS, Section 14.01 of the Indenture provides that, without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental thereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, to, among other things, provide for the assumption by a successor corporation of the Company's obligations under the Indenture, add guarantees with respect to the Securities and make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH, for and in consideration of the premises and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, it is mutually agreed, for the benefit of the Company and the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities, as follows:
Section 1.01. . As used in this First Supplemental Indenture, terms defined in the Indenture or in the preamble or recitals hereto are used herein as defined therein. The words "herein," "hereof" and "hereby" and other words of similar import used in this First Supplemental Indenture refer to this First Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular section hereof.
Definitions
Section 1.02. . If any provision of this First Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act that is required hereunder to be a part of and govern this First Supplemental Indenture, the latter provision shall control. If any provision of this First Supplemental Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, such provision shall be deemed to apply to this First Supplemental Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be.
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
Section 1.03. . The Article and Section headings in this First Supplemental Indenture are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof, and all Article and Section references are to Articles and Sections, respectively, of this First Supplemental Indenture unless otherwise expressly stated.
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents
Section 1.04. . All covenants and agreements in this First Supplemental Indenture by the Company and Parent shall bind their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns
 
Section 1.05. . In case any provision in this First Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability Clause
Section 1.06. . Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their respective successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this First Supplemental Indenture.
Benefits of First Supplemental Indenture
Section 1.07. . This First Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to the conflicts of law principles thereof. Parent, the Company and the Trustee each hereby irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of any New York State court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan in the City of New York or any federal court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan in the City of New York in respect of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Indenture, the Guarantee and the Securities, and irrevocably accepts for itself and in respect of its property, generally and unconditionally, jurisdiction of the aforesaid courts. EACH OF THE COMPANY, PARENT AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial
Section 1.09. . This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in two or more counterparts, which when so executed shall constitute one and the same agreement. The exchange of copies of this First Supplemental Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or Portable Document Format (PDF) transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original First Supplemental Indenture for all purposes. Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes. The parties hereto agree to deliver an originally executed First Supplemental Indenture to the Trustee.
Execution in Counterparts
Section 1.10. . This First Supplemental Indenture may not be used to interpret any indenture, loan or debt agreement of any of Parent, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries other than the indebtedness under the Indenture and the Securities as expressly amended by this First Supplemental Indenture. Any such other indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this First Supplemental Indenture.
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
Section 1.11. . Except as expressly amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, each of the Indenture and the Securities outstanding thereunder is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and all the terms, conditions and provisions thereof shall remain in full force and effect. This First Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of, and shall be read and construed together with, the Indenture for all purposes, and every Holder of Securities heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered shall be bound hereby.
Ratification of Indenture; Supplemental Indenture Part of Indenture
 
Section 1.12. . The Trustee is not responsible for the validity or the sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture or for the recitals herein.
Trustee's Responsibilities
Section 2.01. . At the Effective Time, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company, with the Company as the Surviving Company. The Company shall remain obligated as the Issuer under the Indenture. As required by Section 10.01(b) of the Indenture, the Company, as the Surviving Company (as defined in the Merger Agreement) in the Merger, hereby expressly assumes all of the obligations of the Company under the Securities and the Indenture.
Assumption of Obligations
Section 3.01. .
Amendments and Additions of Certain Definitions
(a) The following shall be added as additional definitions in Section 1.01 of the Indenture in appropriate alphabetical sequence:
""" means the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 4, 2012, among the Company, Parent and the Trustee."
First Supplemental Indenture
""" has the meaning specified in Section 15.01."
Guarantee
""" means the Person named as "Parent" in the First Supplemental Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Parent" shall mean such successor Person."
Parent
(b) The definitions of "Fundamental Change" and "Last Reported Sale Price" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture shall be amended by replacing all references to the phrase "the Company" with "Parent."
(c) The definition of "Common Stock" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
""" means the shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of Parent as they exist on the date of the First Supplemental Indenture or any other shares of Capital Stock of Parent into which the Common Stock shall be reclassified or changed or, in the event of a merger, consolidation or other similar transaction involving Parent that is otherwise permitted hereunder in which Parent is not the surviving corporation, the common stock, common equity interests, ordinary shares or depositary shares or other certificates representing common equity interests of such surviving corporation or its direct or indirect parent corporation."
Common Stock
 
(d) The definition of "Company Request" or "Company Order" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
""" or "" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, its President, any Vice President, its Chief Financial Officer, its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee. In each case where this Indenture requires the delivery of a Company Request or Company Order, such request or order may be signed in the name of Parent by its Chairman of the Board of Directors, its Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, its President, any Vice President, its Chief Financial Officer, its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee on behalf of the Company."
Company Request
Company Order
(e) The definition of "Corporate Trust Office" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
""" means the office of the Trustee at which the corporate trust business of the Trustee shall, at any particular time, be principally administered, which office is located at 400 South Hope Street, Suite 400, Los Angeles, California 90071, Attention: Corporate Trust Unit."
Corporate Trust Office
(f) The definition of "Daily Share Cap" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
""" means 1.3389 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Securities, which is equivalent to the quotient of (i) the product of (A) 19.99% of the number of shares of common stock, no par value, of the Company (the "") outstanding immediately prior to the Issue Date and (B) 1.125, which is the number of shares of Common Stock issued in respect of each share of Company Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the merger of BLMS Inc., a California corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Parent, with and into the Company, pursuant to which the Company became a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent, divided by (ii) the product of (A) the aggregate Principal Amount of Securities Outstanding on the Issue Date (expressed in thousands) and (B) the number of Trading Days in the Observation Period; that to the extent that additional Securities are issued pursuant to the Initial Purchasers' overallotment right granted pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the Daily Share Cap shall be adjusted with such additional Securities included in "the aggregate Principal Amount of Securities Outstanding on the Issue Date" in the preceding equation."
Daily Share Cap
Company Common Stock
provided
 
(g) The definition of "Officers' Certificate" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
""" means a certificate signed by (i) the President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer, General Counsel, any Executive Vice President or any Senior Vice President, and (ii) the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary or the Controller of the Company and delivered to the Trustee. One of the officers signing an Officers' Certificate given pursuant to Section 5.05 shall be the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of the Company. In each case where this Indenture requires the delivery of an Officers' Certificate, including, without limitation, Section 5.05, such Officers' Certificate may be signed by (i) the President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer, General Counsel, any Executive Vice President or any Senior Vice President of Parent, and (ii) the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary or the Controller of Parent, and delivered to the Trustee by Parent on behalf of the Company."
Officers' Certificate
(h) The definition of "Opinion of Counsel" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
""" means a written opinion reasonably acceptable to the Trustee of counsel, who may be external or in-house counsel for Parent or the Company."
Opinion of Counsel
(i) The definition of "Outstanding" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
""," when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
Outstanding
(i) Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or accepted by the Trustee for cancellation;
(ii) Securities, or portions thereof, for whose payment, redemption or repurchase money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than Parent or the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by Parent or the Company (if Parent or the Company shall act as Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; that if such Securities are to be redeemed or repurchased prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption or repurchase shall have been given to the Holders as herein provided, or provision satisfactory to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have been made for giving such notice; and
provided
(iii) Securities that have been paid or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture;
 
, , that, in determining whether the Holders of the requisite Principal Amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor."
provided
however
(j) The definition of "Stock Transfer Agent" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
""" means Computershare Shareowner Services LLC or such other Person as may be designated by Parent as the transfer agent for the Common Stock."
Stock Transfer Agent
(k) The definition of "Subsidiary" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
""" means a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by Parent or the Company, as the context requires, or by one or more other Subsidiaries of Parent or the Company, as the context requires, or by Parent or the Company, as the context requires, and one or more other of their respective Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this definition, "voting stock" means stock or other equity interest which ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors or managers (or the equivalent), whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock or other equity interest has such voting power by reason of any contingency."
Subsidiary
(l) The definition of "Unrestricted Stock CUSIP" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture shall be deleted.
(m) The definition of "Vice President" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
""," when used with respect to Parent, the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president.""
Vice President
 
(n) The definition of "Volume-Weighted Average Price" in Section 1.01 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
""" means for any Trading Day the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading "Bloomberg VWAP" on Bloomberg page "LRCX.UQ <equity> AQR" (or its equivalent successor if such page is not available) in respect of the period from scheduled open of trading until the scheduled close of trading of the primary trading session on such Trading Day (or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market value of one share of the Common Stock on such Trading Day determined, using a volume-weighted average method, by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by Parent or the Company). The Volume-Weighted Average Price will be determined without regard to after hours trading or any other trading outside of the regular trading session trading hours."
Volume-Weighted Average Price
Section 3.02. .
Amendments of Certain Provisions of the Indenture
(a) The following sections of the Indenture shall be amended by replacing all references to the phrase "the Company" with "Parent":
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) The following sections of the Indenture shall be amended by replacing all references to the phrase "the Company" with "Parent or the Company":
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Section 1.04 shall be amended by replacing all references to the phrase "the Company" with "Parent or the Company, as applicable" and inserting a "," after "applicable", unless a "," or "." otherwise follows such phrase as so amended."
(d) Section 1.05 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 1.05. . Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with:
Notices, Etc., to Trustee, Parent and Company
(i) the Trustee by any Holder or by Parent or the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing (including facsimile) to or with the Trustee at its applicable Corporate Trust Office; or
 
(ii) Parent or the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing (including facsimile) and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to Parent addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this instrument or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by Parent, Attention: General Counsel.
The Trustee agrees to accept and act upon instructions or directions pursuant to this Indenture sent by unsecured e-mail, pdf, facsimile transmission or other similar unsecured electronic methods, provided, however, that the Trustee shall have received an incumbency certificate listing persons designated to give such instructions or directions and containing specimen signatures of such designated persons, which such incumbency certificate shall be amended and replaced by a duly executed addendum to such incumbency certificate whenever a person is to be added or deleted from the listing. If Parent or the Company elects to give the Trustee e-mail or facsimile instructions (or instructions by a similar electronic method) and the Trustee in its discretion elects to act upon such instructions, the Trustee's reasonable understanding of such instructions shall be deemed controlling. The Trustee shall not be liable for any losses, costs or expenses arising directly or indirectly from the Trustee's reliance upon and compliance with Parent's or the Company's instructions. Each of Parent and the Company agrees to assume all risks arising out of the use of such electronic methods to submit instructions and directions to the Trustee, including without limitation the risk of the Trustee acting on unauthorized instructions, and the risk or interception and misuse by third parties.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or the Securities, (1) where this Indenture or the Securities provide for notice by Parent or the Company to a Holder or to the Trustee of any event (including a Fundamental Change Company Notice, a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice or a notice of a Make-Whole Fundamental Change), such notice shall be sufficiently given if given by Parent, and (2) where this Indenture or the Securities provide for notice by the Trustee or by any Holder to Parent or the Company, such notice shall be sufficiently given if given to Parent."
(e) Section 1.09 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 1.09. . All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by Parent or the Company shall bind its respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not."
Successors and Assigns
 
(f) Section 1.12 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 1.12. . This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to the conflicts of law principles thereof. Parent, the Company and the Trustee each hereby irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of any New York State court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan in the City of New York or any federal court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan in the City of New York in respect of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Indenture, the Guarantee and the Securities, and irrevocably accepts for itself and in respect of its property, generally and unconditionally, jurisdiction of the aforesaid courts. EACH OF PARENT, THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE GUARANTEE, THE SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY."
Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial
(g) Section 1.14 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 1.14. . None of Parent's or the Company's, or of any successor entity's, direct or indirect shareholders, employees, officers or directors, as such, past, present or future, shall have any personal liability in respect of the obligations of Parent or the Company, respectively, under the Indenture or the Securities solely by reason of his or its status as such shareholder, employee, officer or director."
No Recourse Against Others
(h) Section 1.18 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 1.18. . Except as otherwise provided herein, Parent, the Company or their respective agents (other than the Trustee) will be responsible for making all calculations and determinations called for under the Indenture and the Securities. Parent, the Company or their respective agents (other than the Trustee) will make all such calculations and determinations in good faith and, absent manifest error, its calculations and determinations will be final and binding on Holders. Parent or the Company, as applicable, upon request will provide a schedule of its calculations to the Trustee, and the Trustee is entitled to rely conclusively upon the accuracy of Parent's or the Company's calculations and determinations without independent verification. The Trustee will deliver a copy of any such schedule provided to it to any Holder upon the written request of such Holder."
Calculations
(i) Section 2.01(d) shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"(d) Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee as its custodian, or under the Global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by Parent, the
Agent Members
 
Company, the Trustee and any agent of Parent, the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of the Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent Parent, the Company, the Trustee or any agent of Parent, the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of any Holder."
(j) The third paragraph of the Form of Face of Security in Section 2.02 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Reference is made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, including, without limitation, provisions giving the Company the right to redeem this Security under certain circumstances and provisions giving the Holder the right to convert this Security into Common Stock of Parent and to require the Company to repurchase this Security upon certain events, in each case, on the terms and subject to the limitations referred to on the reverse hereof and as more fully specified in the Indenture. Such further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have such meanings as are ascribed to such terms in the Indenture."
(k) Section 2.03 shall be amended as follows:
 
 
". Subject to and in compliance with the provisions of the Indenture (including without limitation the conditions of conversion of this Security set forth in Article 8 thereof), the Holder hereof has the right, at its option, to convert the Principal Amount hereof or any portion of such principal which is $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof, into, subject to Section 8.01 of the Indenture, cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, at the Conversion Rate. The Conversion Rate as of the date of the First Supplemental Indenture is 28.4781 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 Principal Amount of Securities, subject to adjustment in certain events described in the Indenture. Upon conversion, the Company shall deliver, for each $1,000 principal amount of Securities being converted, cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, equal to the Settlement Amount in accordance with the Indenture. No fractional shares will be issued upon any conversion, but an adjustment and payment in cash will be made, as provided in the Indenture, in respect of any fraction of a share which would otherwise be issuable upon the surrender of any Securities for conversion.
Conversion
 
Securities in respect of which a Holder is exercising its right to require repurchase on a Fundamental Change Repurchase Date may be converted only if such Holder withdraws its election to exercise such right in accordance with the terms of the Indenture."
 
"Subject to certain limitations in the Indenture, at any time when Parent or the Company is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, upon the request of a Holder of a Restricted Security, Parent and/or the Company, as applicable, will promptly furnish or cause to be furnished Rule 144A Information (as defined below) to such Holder of Restricted Securities, or to a prospective purchaser of any such security designated by any such Holder, to the extent required to permit compliance by any such Holder with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). "Rule 144A Information" shall be such information as is specified pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto)."
 
"The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of Parent and the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities under the Indenture at any time by Parent, the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Securities. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Securities, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities, to waive compliance by Parent or the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of any provision of or applicable to this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security."
 
"As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of Parent in Fremont, California, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security
 
Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate Principal Amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees."
 
"If you want to convert this Security into Common Stock of Parent, check the box:  "
(l) The second paragraph of Section 3.05(b) shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"If the Company or Parent fails to maintain a Security Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, the Trustee will act as such Security Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent and will be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 11.07 hereof. Parent, the Company or any of their respective domestically incorporated wholly owned Subsidiaries may act as the Security Registrar, the Paying Agent or the Conversion Agent; , , that upon any bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings relating to Parent, the Company or any wholly owned Subsidiary thereof, the Trustee will serve as the Paying Agent."
provided
however
(m) Section 3.13 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 3.13. . Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, Parent, the Company, the Trustee, the Security Registrar and any agent of Parent, the Company, the Trustee or the Security Registrar may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of the principal of such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither Parent, the Company, the Trustee, the Security Registrar nor any agent of Parent, the Company, the Trustee or the Security Registrar shall be affected by notice to the contrary."
Persons Deemed Owners
(n) The second sentence of Section 4.03 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"The Company shall determine whether Holders are entitled to receive Contingent Interest, and if so, the Company, or Parent on behalf of the Company, shall provide written notice to the Bid Solicitation Agent and issue a press release as required by Section 4.05."
(o) Section 4.05 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 4.05. . Subject to Section 4.02(b), by the third Business Day of a six-month Interest payment period for which
Contingent Interest Notification
 
Contingent Interest specified in Section 4.02(a)(i) will be paid, the Company, or Parent on behalf of the Company, will disseminate a press release through a recognized wire service stating that Contingent Interest will be paid on the Securities and identifying such six-month Interest payment period as the six-month Interest payment period for which such Contingent Interest will be paid. By the third Business Day following the designation by Parent's Board of Directors of an extraordinary cash dividend or distribution as an Extraordinary Dividend pursuant to Section 4.02(a)(ii), the Company, or Parent on behalf of the Company, will disseminate a press release through a recognized wire service stating that Contingent Interest will be paid on the Securities and identifying the Record Date for the payment of such Contingent Interest and the amount of such extraordinary cash dividend or distribution payable with respect to each share of the Common Stock."
(p) Section 5.06 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 5.06. . Subject to Article 10, each of Parent and the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; , , that neither Parent nor the Company shall be required to preserve any such right or franchise if Parent shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of Parent and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders."
Existence
provided
however
(q) Section 5.07 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 5.07. . Within the period prior to the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales of Securities or any Common Stock issuable on conversion thereof under Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), each of Parent and the Company covenants and agrees that it shall, during any period in which it is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) under the Exchange Act, make available to any Holder or beneficial Holder of such Securities or any such Common Stock, in each case which continue to be Restricted Securities, in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchasers of Securities or such Common Stock from such Holder or beneficial holder, the information required pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act upon the request of any Holder or beneficial holder of the Securities or such Common Stock and it will take such further action as any Holder or beneficial holder of such Securities or such Common Stock may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder or beneficial holder to sell its Securities or Common Stock without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemption provided by Rule 144A. Upon the request of any Holder or any beneficial holder of the Securities or such Common Stock, Parent or the Company, as applicable, will deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements."
Rule 144A Information Requirement
 
(r) Section 5.10 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 5.10. . Each of the Company and Parent covenants to comply with Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act as it relates to reports, information and documents that the Company or Parent, as applicable, may be required to file with the Trustee pursuant to such Section 314(a) and with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or otherwise by the Exchange Act, the Trust Indenture Act or other rules and regulations of the Commission and to file such reports, information and documents with the Trustee within 45 days after the same is required to be filed with the Commission (giving effect to any grace period provided by Rule 12b-25 under the Exchange Act); provided that in each case the delivery of materials to the Trustee by electronic means or filing pursuant to the Commission's "EDGAR" system (or any successor electronic filing system) shall be deemed to constitute "filing" with the Trustee for purposes of this Section 5.10. Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's and Parent's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates)."
Commission Filings and Reports
(s) The final sentence of Section 5.14 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"A Holder may obtain the Issue Date, yield to maturity, comparable yield and the projected payment schedule by submitting a written request for such information to: Lam Research Corporation, 4650 Cushing Parkway, Fremont, CA 94538 Attention: Corporate Treasurer."
(t) The first paragraph of Section 6.03 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 6.03. . At least 30 Scheduled Trading Days but not more than 50 Scheduled Trading Days before the applicable Redemption Date, the Company, or Parent on behalf of the Company, shall deliver notice of any redemption by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Trustee, the Paying Agent and each Holder (or with respect to DTC, by electronic transmission) and disseminate a press release through a recognized wire service."
Notice of Redemption
(u) The first paragraph of Section 7.01(b) shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"(b) . On or before the 20th Business Day immediately following the effective date of a Fundamental Change, the Company shall provide to all Holders of record of the Securities and the Trustee and Paying Agent a notice (the "
Fundamental Change Company Notice
Fundamental Change Company
 
") of the occurrence of such Fundamental Change and of the repurchase right at the option of the Holders arising as a result thereof. Such mailing shall be by first class mail. Simultaneously with providing such Fundamental Change Company Notice, the Company shall publish a notice containing the information included therein once in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of New York or publish such information on Parent's website or through such other public medium as the Company may use at such time."
Notice
(v) The final paragraph of Section 8.01 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"The Conversion Rate on and after the date of the First Supplemental Indenture (subject to adjustment as provided in this Indenture) is 28.4781 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 Principal Amount."
(w) The final paragraph of Section 8.02(b) shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"(b) In the event that the Daily Share Amount for any Trading Day during the Observation Period exceeds the Daily Share Cap, the Company will deliver cash in lieu of such excess shares based on the Volume-Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock on such Trading Day, unless Parent has received shareholder approval as required by The NASDAQ Global Select Market (or the rules of the primary United States national or regional securities exchange or market on which the Common Stock is then listed or admitted to trading) for issuance of such excess shares at the time of conversion."
(x) Section 8.06 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 8.06. . (a) If a Holder elects to convert Securities at any time following Parent's or the Company's delivery of a notice of a Make-Whole Fundamental Change and until (i) if such Make-Whole Fundamental Change is a Fundamental Change, the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date for such Fundamental Change, and (ii) if such Make-Whole Fundamental Change is not a Fundamental Change, the 35th Business Day immediately following the effective date of such Make-Whole Fundamental Change, the Conversion Rate for such Securities will be increased by an additional number of shares of Common Stock (the "") as described below.
Adjustment in Connection with a Make-Whole Fundamental Change
Additional Shares
(b) The number of Additional Shares by which the Conversion Rate will be increased shall be determined by reference to the table attached as Exhibit B hereto, based on the date on which the Make-Whole Fundamental Change occurs or becomes effective (the "") and the Stock Price; that if the actual Stock Price is between two Stock Price amounts in such table or the Make-Whole Effective Date is between two Make-Whole Effective Dates in such table, the number of Additional Shares shall be
Make-Whole Effective Date
provided
 
determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Additional Shares set forth for the next higher and next lower Stock Price amounts and the two nearest Make-Whole Effective Dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year; provided further that if (1) the Stock Price is greater than $75.56 per share of Common Stock (subject to adjustment in the same manner as set forth in Section 8.03), no Additional Shares will be added to the Conversion Rate, and (2) the Stock Price is less than $29.26 per share (subject to adjustment in the same manner as set forth in Section 8.03), no Additional Shares will be added to the Conversion Rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will the Conversion Rate, as a result of a Make-Whole Fundamental Change, exceed 34.1738 shares per $1,000 Principal Amount (subject to adjustment in the same manner as set forth in Section 8.03).
(c) The Stock Prices set forth in the first row of the table in Exhibit B hereto shall be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate of the Securities is adjusted. The adjusted Stock Prices shall equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Stock Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. The number of Additional Shares within the table shall be adjusted in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 8.03 (other than by operation of an adjustment to the Conversion Rate by adding Additional Shares).
(d) The table in Exhibit B hereto sets forth the hypothetical Stock Price and the number of Additional Shares to be received per $1,000 Principal Amount of Securities.
(e) Upon surrender of Securities for conversion in connection with a Make-Whole Fundamental Change, Parent or the Company shall deliver an amount of cash and a number of shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 8.02, , , that if the Observation Period applicable to such Security ends on or prior to the effective date for such Make-Whole Fundamental Change, Parent or the Company shall deliver the portion of the Settlement Amount corresponding to the Additional Shares, if any, on the third Business Day immediately following the effective date for such Make-Whole Fundamental Change (for the avoidance of doubt, if an anticipated Make-Whole Fundamental Change does not occur, the Holder will not receive any portion of the Settlement Amount corresponding to such Additional Shares), and that if the Holder converts its Securities after the effective date of such Make-Whole Fundamental Change and such Make-Whole Fundamental Change is described in clause (2) of the definition of Fundamental Change (regardless of the proviso to such clause) and the consideration for Common Stock in such Make-Whole Fundamental Change is comprised entirely of cash, the conversion obligation per $1,000 principal amount of Securities will be calculated based solely on the Stock Price for the transaction and will be deemed to be an amount equal to the applicable Conversion Rate (including any adjustment as described in this
provided
however
provided further
 
Section 8.06) multiplied by such Stock Price. In such event, the Company will pay the conversion obligation in cash on the third Business Day following the Conversion Date. Parent or the Company, or Parent on behalf of the Company, will notify Holders of the effective date of any Make-Whole Fundamental Change and disseminate a press release through a recognized wire service announcing such effective date no later than five Business Days after such effective date.
(f) Parent shall notify Holders of the Securities, the Trustee and the Paying Agent of a Make-Whole Fundamental Change and the anticipated effective date of such Make-Whole Fundamental Change and disseminate a press release through a recognized wire service announcing the same no later than the 30th Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the anticipated effective date of such Make-Whole Fundamental Change, or, if Parent does not have knowledge of such Make-Whole Fundamental Change or such anticipated effective date at such time, on the third Business Day immediately following the date on which Parent receives notice, or otherwise becomes aware, of such Make-Whole Fundamental Change and such anticipated effective date, but in no event later than the actual effective date for such Make-Whole Fundamental Change."
(y) Section 9.01(g) shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"(g) (A) failure by Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries to make any payment in an amount in excess of $25 million by the end of any applicable grace period after maturity of indebtedness for money borrowed and continuance of such failure, or (B) the acceleration of indebtedness for borrowed money in an amount in excess of $25 million because of a default by Parent, the Company or one of their Significant Subsidiaries with respect to such indebtedness without such indebtedness having been discharged or such acceleration having been cured, waived, rescinded or annulled for a period of 30 days;"
(z) Section 9.01(h) shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"(h) the entry by a court having jurisdiction over Parent, the Company or their Significant Subsidiaries of (i) a decree or order for relief in respect of Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (ii) a decree or order adjudging Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries as bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries under any applicable federal or state law or (iii) appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries, or of any substantial part of Parent's, the Company's or any of their Significant Subsidiaries' property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of Parent's, the Company's or any of their Significant Subsidiaries' affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or"
 
(aa) Section 9.01(i) shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"(i) the commencement by Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries, or the filing by Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable federal or state law, or the consent by Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries or of any substantial part of Parent's, the Company's or any of their Significant Subsidiaries' property, or the making by Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries in writing of Parent's, the Company's or any of their Significant Subsidiaries' inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by Parent, the Company or any of their Significant Subsidiaries in furtherance of any such action."
(bb) Section 9.02(a) shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"(a) If an Event of Default (other than those specified in Sections 9.01(h) and 9.01(i) with respect to Parent, the Company or any of their respective Significant Subsidiaries) occurs and is continuing, then and in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Securities may declare the Principal Amount plus accrued and unpaid Interest on all the Outstanding Securities to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such Principal Amount plus accrued and unpaid Interest shall become immediately due and payable."
(cc) Section 9.02(b) shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default specified in Section 9.01(h) or Section 9.01(i) with respect to Parent, the Company or any of their respective Significant Subsidiaries, the Principal
 
Amount plus accrued and unpaid Interest on all Outstanding Securities will ipso facto become due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder."
(dd) Section 9.09 shall be amended by replacing all references to the phrase "the Company" with "Parent, the Company".
(ee) Section 10.01 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 10.01. .
Parent and Company May Consolidate, etc., Only on Certain Terms
(a) The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or sell, convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its properties and assets or all or substantially all of the Company's and its Subsidiaries' consolidated properties and assets, to any Person, unless:
(i) the resulting, surviving or transferee Person is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia;
(ii) the surviving entity or the other entity to which such sale, conveyance, transfer or lease has been made (the ""), as applicable, expressly assumes by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee, all of the Company's obligations under the Securities and this Indenture; and
Surviving Entity
(iii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default has occurred and is continuing.
(b) Parent shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or sell, convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its properties and assets or all or substantially all of Parent's and its Subsidiaries' consolidated properties and assets, to any Person, unless:
(i) the resulting, surviving or transferee Person is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia;
(ii) the Surviving Entity expressly assumes by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee, all of Parent's obligations under the Securities and this Indenture;
(iii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default has occurred and is continuing; and
(iv) if upon the occurrence of any such consolidation, merger, sale, conveyance, transfer or lease the Securities would
 
become convertible into securities issued by an issuer other than the Surviving Entity, the issuer of the securities into which the Securities have become convertible shall fully and unconditionally guarantee, on a senior basis, the Surviving Entity's obligations under the Securities."
(ff) Section 10.02 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 10.02. .
Successor Substituted
(a) Upon any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the Company into, any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company or of the Company and its Subsidiaries in accordance with Section 10.01(a), the Surviving Entity formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such Surviving Entity had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.
(b) Upon any consolidation of Parent with, or merger of Parent into, any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of Parent or of Parent and its Subsidiaries in accordance with Section 10.01(b), the Surviving Entity formed by such consolidation or into which Parent is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, Parent under this Indenture with the same effect as if such Surviving Entity had been named as Parent herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease of all or substantially all of Parent's properties and assets, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities."
(gg) Section 14.01 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 14.01. . Without the consent of any Holders, Parent and the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders
(i) to cure any ambiguity or omission or correct any inconsistent or otherwise defective provision contained herein, so long as such action does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders;
(ii) to provide for the assumption by a successor corporation of Parent's obligations under the indenture or assumption by a successor corporation of the Company's obligations under the indenture;
 
(iii) to add guarantees with respect to the Securities;
(iv) to provide security for the Securities;
(v) to add to the covenants of Parent or the Company for the benefit of the Holders, or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon Parent or the Company;
(vi) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder;
(vii) to comply with any requirement of the Commission in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act;
(viii) to appoint a successor Trustee with respect to the indenture;
(ix) to comply with the rules of any applicable Depository; or
(x) to conform the provisions of this Indenture to the "Description of Notes" section contained in the final offering memorandum dated May 5, 2011."
(hh) The first paragraph of Section 14.02 shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
"Section 14.02. . With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in Principal Amount of the Outstanding Securities, by Act of said Holders delivered to Parent, the Company and the Trustee, Parent and the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders under this Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,"
Supplemental Indentures With Consent of Holders
 
(ii) to the Indenture shall be amended and restated in full as follows:
Exhibit B
"
EXHIBIT B
 
"
Section 3.03. . The following shall be added as a new Article 15 of the Indenture:
Addition of Guarantee
Section 15.01. . Subject to the provisions of this Indenture and any supplemental indenture hereto, Parent hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, on a senior basis (the ""), to each Holder of a Security outstanding on the date of the First Supplemental Indenture or any Security thereafter authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, that: (1) the principal of and interest on the Securities shall be paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise; (2) in case of any extension of time in payment or renewal of any Securities or pursuant to any cure period provisions of the Securities or the Indenture, they shall be paid in full when due in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal or cure period; and (3) all other obligations of the Company under the Securities and the Indenture shall be paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due by the Company of any amount so guaranteed, Parent shall be obligated to pay the same. Parent agrees that this is a guarantee of payment and not a guarantee of collection.
Guarantee
Guarantee
Parent hereby agrees that its obligations with regard to the Guarantee shall be unconditional, irrespective of any circumstances which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable defense of a guarantor. In the event of a default in the payment of principal or interest the Trustee or any Holder of Securities may seek to enforce the Guarantee against Parent without first proceeding against the Company.
 
If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to either the Company or Parent, or any custodian acting in relation to either the Company or Parent, any amount paid by the Company or Parent to the Trustee or such Holder, the Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect. Parent agrees that it shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders or the Trustee in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby.
The Guarantee is a continuing guarantee and shall remain in full force and effect and shall be binding upon Parent and its successors and assigns until full and final payment of all of principal and interest under the Securities and shall inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Trustee and the Holders and, in the event of any transfer or assignment of rights by any Holder or the Trustee, the rights and privileges herein conferred upon that party shall automatically extend to and be vested in such transferee or assignee, all subject to the terms and conditions hereof.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or the Securities,
(i) where this Indenture or the Securities require any payment of cash or delivery of shares of Common Stock to be made by the Company to any party (including, without limitation, in connection with any conversion, redemption, purchase or repurchase of the Securities pursuant to the terms of this Indenture), the obligation to make such payment or deliver such shares of Common Stock shall be satisfied in full if made by Parent on behalf of the Company;
(ii) where this Indenture or the Securities require that the Company repurchase all or a portion of the Securities, including where this Indenture or the Securities require the Company to repurchase the Securities if a Fundamental Change occurs, the obligation to make such repurchase shall be satisfied in full if made by Parent, in lieu of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of this Indenture; and
(iii) where this Indenture or the Securities permits the Company to redeem the Securities as a whole, or from time to time in part, at its option, such redemption may be made by Parent, in lieu of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of this Indenture.
In the event the Indenture is satisfied and discharged as provided in Article 13 thereof, the Trustee will execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of Parent from its obligations under the Guarantee."
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Indemnification Agreement ("") is made as of [ by and between Lam Research Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and [ ("").
Agreement
date]
Company
Print Name]
Indemnitee
WHEREAS, the Company desires to attract and retain the services of highly qualified individuals, such as Indemnitee, to serve the Company;
WHEREAS, in order to induce Indemnitee to continue to provide services to the Company, the Company wishes to provide for the indemnification of, and advancement of expenses to, Indemnitee to the maximum extent permitted by law;
WHEREAS, the Bylaws of the Company (the "") require indemnification of the officers and directors of the Company, and Indemnitee may also be entitled to indemnification pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "");
Bylaws
DGCL
WHEREAS, the Bylaws and the DGCL expressly provide that the indemnification provisions set forth therein are not exclusive, and thereby contemplate that contracts may be entered into between the Company and members of the board of directors, officers and other persons with respect to indemnification;
WHEREAS, the Company and Indemnitee recognize the difficulty that companies sometimes experience obtaining appropriate levels of liability insurance for the companies' directors, officers, employees, agents and fiduciaries, the significant cost of such insurance and the limited scope of coverage of such insurance;
WHEREAS, the Company and Indemnitee further recognize the significant amount of corporate litigation in general, subjecting directors, officers, employees, agents and fiduciaries to expensive litigation risks at the same time as the cost, limited availability and scope of coverage of liability insurance continues, constituting substantial challenges for the Company;
WHEREAS, Indemnitee does not regard the protection currently provided by applicable law, the Company's governing documents and available insurance as adequate under the present circumstances, and the Indemnitee and certain other directors, officers, employees, agents and fiduciaries of the Company may not be willing to continue to serve in such capacities without additional protection;
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") has determined that the increased difficulty in attracting and retaining highly qualified persons such as Indemnitee is detrimental to the best interests of the Company's stockholders and that the Company should act to assure such persons that there will be increased certainty of such protection in the future;
Board
WHEREAS, it is reasonable, prudent and necessary for the Company contractually to obligate itself to indemnify, and to advance expenses on behalf of, such persons to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law so that they will serve or continue to serve the Company free from undue concern that they will not be so indemnified; and
WHEREAS, this Agreement is a supplement to and in furtherance of the indemnification provided in the Bylaws and any resolutions adopted pursuant thereto, and shall not be deemed a substitute therefor, nor to diminish or abrogate any rights of Indemnitee thereunder.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants contained herein, the Company and Indemnitee do hereby covenant and agree as follows:
Section 1. . Indemnitee agrees to serve as [a director][an officer] of the Company. Indemnitee may at any time and for any reason resign from such position (subject to any other contractual obligation or any obligation imposed by operation of law), in which event the Company shall have no obligation under this Agreement to continue Indemnitee in such position. This Agreement shall not be deemed an employment contract between the Company (or any of its subsidiaries or any Enterprise) and Indemnitee. The foregoing notwithstanding, this Agreement shall continue in force after Indemnitee has ceased to serve as [a director][an officer] of the Company.
Services to the Company
Section 2.
Definitions
As used in this Agreement:
(a) A "" shall be deemed to have occurred if (a) any "Person" (as that term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) is or becomes (except in a transaction approved in advance by the Board) the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under such Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities, or (b) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof unless the election of each director who was not a director at the beginning of the period was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period.
Company Change in Control
(b) "" describes the status of a person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or of any other corporation, partnership or joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise which such person is or was serving at the request of the Company.
Corporate Status
(c) "" shall mean the Company and any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which Indemnitee is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary.
Enterprise
 
(d) "" shall include all reasonable attorneys' fees, retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, witness fees, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees, and all other disbursements or expenses of the types customarily incurred in connection with prosecuting, defending, preparing to prosecute or defend, investigating, being or preparing to be a witness in, or otherwise participating in, a Proceeding. Expenses also shall include Expenses incurred in connection with any appeal resulting from any Proceeding, including without limitation the premium, security for, and other costs relating to any cost bond, supersedes bond, or other appeal bond or its equivalent. Expenses, however, shall not include amounts paid in settlement by Indemnitee or the amount of judgments or fines against Indemnitee.
Expenses
(e) "" means a law firm, or a partner (or, if applicable, member) of such a law firm, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither presently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent: (i) the Company or Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party (other than with respect to matters concerning the Indemnitee under this Agreement, or of other indemnitees under similar indemnification agreements), or (ii) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or Indemnitee in an action to determine Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement. The Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees and expenses of the Independent Counsel referred to above and to fully indemnify such counsel against any and all expenses, claims, liabilities and damages arising out of or relating to this Agreement or its engagement pursuant hereto.
Independent Counsel
(f) "" means any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, arbitration, alternate dispute resolution mechanism, investigation (whether designated by the investigative agency as a formal investigation or otherwise), inquiry, administrative hearing or any other actual, threatened or completed proceeding, whether brought in the right of the Company or otherwise and whether of a civil, criminal, administrative, regulatory or investigative nature, in which Indemnitee was, is or will be involved as a party or otherwise by reason of the fact of the Indemnitee's Corporate Status, by reason of any action taken by Indemnitee or of any action on his/her part while acting in his/her Corporate Status, or by reason of the fact that he/she is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another Enterprise, in each case whether or not serving in such capacity at the time any liability or expense is incurred for which indemnification, reimbursement, or advancement of expenses can be provided under this Agreement; , , that the term "Proceeding" shall not include any action, suit or arbitration initiated by Indemnitee to enforce Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement.
Proceeding
provided
however
Section 3. . The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee in accordance with the provisions of this Section 3 if Indemnitee is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or a participant in any Proceeding, other than a Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor. Pursuant to this Section 3, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee or on his/her behalf in connection with such
Indemnity in Third-Party Proceedings
 
Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein, if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he/she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, in the case of a criminal proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe that his/her conduct was unlawful. Indemnitee shall not enter into any settlement in connection with a Proceeding without the Company's prior consent, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
Section 4. . The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4 if Indemnitee is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or a participant in any Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor. Pursuant to this Section 4, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him/her or on his/her behalf in connection with such Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein, if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he/she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company. No indemnification for Expenses shall be made under this Section 4 in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which Indemnitee shall have been finally adjudged by a court to be liable to the Company, unless and only to the extent that the Delaware Court of Chancery (the "") or any court in which the Proceeding was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, Indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnification for such expenses as the Delaware Court or such other court shall deem proper.
Indemnity in Proceedings by or in the Right of the Company
Delaware Court
Section 5. . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement but subject to Section 8, to the extent that Indemnitee is a party to or a participant in and is successful, on the merits or otherwise, in any Proceeding or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him/her in connection therewith. If Indemnitee is not wholly successful in such Proceeding but is successful, on the merits or otherwise, as to one or more but less than all claims, issues or matters in such Proceeding, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against (a) all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him/her or on his/her behalf in connection with each successfully resolved claim, issue or matter and (b) any claim, issue or matter related to any such successfully resolved claim, issue or matter as provided in Section 21. For purposes of this Section and without limitation, the termination of any claim, issue or matter in such a Proceeding by dismissal, with or without prejudice, shall be deemed to be a successful result as to such claim, issue or matter.
Indemnification for Expenses of a Party Who is Wholly or Partly Successful
Section 6. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason of his/her Corporate Status, a witness in any Proceeding to which Indemnitee is not a party, he/she shall be indemnified against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him/her or on his/her behalf in connection therewith.
Indemnification for Expenses of a Witness
Section 7. .
Additional Indemnification
(a) Notwithstanding any limitation in Sections 3, 4, or 5, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law if Indemnitee is a party to or is
 
threatened to be made a party to any Proceeding (including a Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor) against all Expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection with the Proceeding.
(b) For purposes of Section 7(a), the meaning of the phrase "to the fullest extent permitted by law" shall include, but not be limited to:
(i) to the fullest extent permitted by the provision of the DGCL that authorizes or contemplates additional indemnification by agreement, or the corresponding provision of any amendment to or replacement of the DGCL or such provision thereof; and
(ii) to the fullest extent authorized or permitted by any amendments to or replacements of the DGCL adopted after the date of this Agreement that increase the extent to which a corporation may indemnify its officers and directors.
Section 8. . Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, the Company shall not be obligated under this Agreement to make any indemnity:
Exclusions
(a) for which payment has actually been made to or on behalf of Indemnitee under any insurance policy or other indemnity provision, except with respect to any excess beyond the amount paid under any insurance policy or other indemnity provision;
(b) for an accounting of profits made from the purchase and sale (or sale and purchase) by Indemnitee of securities of the Company within the meaning of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or similar provisions of state statutory law or common law;
(c) for claims initiated or brought by Indemnitee, except (i) with respect to actions or proceedings brought to establish or enforce a right to receive advancement or indemnification under this Agreement or any other agreement or insurance policy or under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation (the "Charter") or Bylaws now or hereafter in effect relating to indemnification, (ii) if the Board has approved the initiation or bringing of such claim, or (iii) as otherwise required under Delaware law; or
(d) for which payment is prohibited by applicable law.
Section 9. . The Company shall advance, to the extent not prohibited by law, the reasonable Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding. Such advancement shall be made within twenty (20) days after the receipt by the Company of a statement or statements requesting such advances (which shall include invoices received by Indemnitee in connection with such Expensesthe invoices to afford sufficient detail to permit the Company to assess the reasonableness of the Expense advancement requested; , that in the case of invoices in connection with legal services, references to legal work performed or to expenditures made that would cause Indemnitee to waive any privilege accorded by applicable law may be redacted from the invoice) from time to time, whether prior to or after final disposition of any Proceeding. Indemnitee shall reasonably cooperate with the Company to manage Expenses, and such cooperation may be considered in
Advances of Expenses
provided, however
 
assessing the reasonableness of Expenses that are the subject of an advancement request; that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to undermine the purpose of this Agreement or to purport to modify the professional obligations of Indemnitee's legal counsel. Advances shall be unsecured and interest free. Advances shall be made without regard to Indemnitee's ability to repay the expenses and without regard to Indemnitee's ultimate entitlement to indemnification under the other provisions of this Agreement. Advances shall include any and all reasonable expenses incurred pursuing an action to enforce this right of advancement. The Indemnitee shall qualify for advances upon the execution and delivery to the Company of this Agreement which shall constitute an undertaking providing that the Indemnitee undertakes to the fullest extent required by law to repay the advance if and to the extent that it is ultimately determined by a court of competent jurisdiction in a final judgment, not subject to appeal, that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company. This Section 9 shall not apply to any claim made by Indemnitee for which indemnity is excluded pursuant to Section 8. The right to advances under this paragraph shall in all events continue until final disposition of any Proceeding, including any appeal therein.
provided, however,
Section 10. .
Procedure for Notification and Defense of Claim
(a) To obtain indemnification under this Agreement, Indemnitee shall submit to the Company a written request therefor to the Company.
(b) The Company will be entitled, but not obliged, to participate in the Proceeding at its own expense.
Section 11. .
Procedure Upon Application for Indemnification
(a) Upon written request by Indemnitee for indemnification pursuant to Section 10(a), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement thereto shall be made in the specific case by the Board, by a majority vote of the directors of the Company who are not parties to the Proceeding, and, if it is so determined that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, payment to Indemnitee shall be made within ten (10) days after such determination. In the event that (i) there are no disinterested directors serving on the Board, (ii) no determination of entitlement to indemnification shall have been made pursuant to the preceding sentence within sixty (60) days after receipt by the Company of the request for indemnification, (iii) a determination is made pursuant to the preceding sentence that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement, or (iv) there has been a Company Change in Control prior to the determination by the Board, Indemnitee shall be entitled to have his/her entitlement to indemnification to be determined by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board, a copy of which shall be delivered to Indemnitee and, if it is so determined by Independent Counsel that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, payment to Indemnitee shall be made within ten (10) days after such determination.
(b) Indemnitee shall cooperate with the Board or Independent Counsel, as applicable, making such determination with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification, including providing to the Board or such counsel, as applicable, upon reasonable advance request any documentation or information which is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and which is reasonably available to Indemnitee and
 
reasonably necessary to such determination. Any costs or expenses (including attorneys' fees and disbursements) incurred by Indemnitee in so cooperating with the Board or Independent Counsel, as applicable, shall be borne by the Company (irrespective of the determination as to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification) and the Company hereby indemnifies and agrees to hold Indemnitee harmless therefrom.
(c) In the event that Indemnitee exercises his/her right to have his/her entitlement to indemnification determined by Independent Counsel as contemplated by Section 11(a), the Independent Counsel shall be selected by Indemnitee. The Company may, within ten (10) days after written notice of such selection, deliver to the Indemnitee a written objection to such selection; , , that such objection may be asserted only on the ground that the Independent Counsel so selected does not meet the requirements of "Independent Counsel" as defined in Section 2 of this Agreement, and the objection shall set forth with particularity the factual basis of such assertion. Absent a proper and timely objection, the person so selected shall act as Independent Counsel. If such written objection is so made and substantiated, the Independent Counsel so selected may not serve as Independent Counsel unless and until such objection is withdrawn or a court has determined that such objection is without merit. If, within twenty (20) days after the later of submission by Indemnitee of a written request for indemnification pursuant to Section 10(a) hereof, and the final disposition of the Proceeding, including any appeal therein, no Independent Counsel shall have been selected and not objected to, the Indemnitee may petition a court of competent jurisdiction for resolution of any objection which shall have been made by the Company to the selection of Independent Counsel and/or for the appointment as Independent Counsel of a person selected by the court or by such other person as the court shall designate, and the person with respect to whom all objections are so resolved or the person so appointed shall act as Independent Counsel under Section 11(a) hereof. Upon the due commencement of any judicial proceeding or arbitration pursuant to Section 13(a) of this Agreement, Independent Counsel shall be discharged and relieved of any further responsibility in such capacity (subject to the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing).
provided
however
(d) In the event that Independent Counsel is selected to make the determination of Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification as contemplated by clause (ii) or (iii) of the second sentence of Section 11(a), neither the failure of the Board to have made a determination that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct, nor an actual determination by the Board that Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct, and the Independent Counsel making such determination shall be bound by the presumptions set forth in Section 12.
(e) The rights set forth in this Section 11 with respect to Indemnitee selecting Independent Counsel to determine Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, Indemnitee's rights set forth in Section 13.
Section 12. .
Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings
(a) In making a determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification hereunder, the Board or Independent Counsel, as applicable, making such determination shall
 
presume that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this Agreement if Indemnitee has submitted a request for indemnification in accordance with Section 10(a) of this Agreement, and the Company shall have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in connection with the making by the Independent Counsel of any determination contrary to that presumption. Neither the failure of the Board or of Independent Counsel to have made a determination prior to the commencement of any action pursuant to this Agreement that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct, nor an actual determination by the Board or by Independent Counsel that Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
(b) The termination of any Proceeding or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of guilty, or its equivalent, shall not (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement) of itself adversely affect the right of Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which he/she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company or, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, that Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that his/her conduct was unlawful.
nolo contendere
(c) For purposes of any determination of good faith, Indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in good faith if Indemnitee's action is based on the records or books of account of the Enterprise, including financial statements, or on information supplied to Indemnitee by the officers of the Enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Enterprise or the Board or counsel selected by any committee of the Board or on information or records given or reports made to the Enterprise by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser, investment banker or other expert selected with reasonable care by the Company or the Board or any committee of the Board. The provisions of this Section 12(c) shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the other circumstances in which the Indemnitee may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in this Agreement.
(d) The knowledge and/or actions, or failure to act, of any director, officer, agent or employee of the Enterprise shall not be imputed to Indemnitee for purposes of determining the right to indemnification under this Agreement.
Section 13. .
Remedies of Indemnitee
(a) Subject to Section 13(e), in the event that (i) a determination is made pursuant to Section 11 of this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement, (ii) advancement of Expenses is not timely made pursuant to Section 9 of this Agreement, (iii) no determination of entitlement to indemnification shall have been made pursuant to Section 11(a) of this Agreement within sixty (60) days after receipt by the Company of the request for indemnification, (iv) payment of indemnification is not made pursuant to Section 5 or 6 or the last sentence of Section 11(b) of this Agreement within ten (10) days after receipt by the Company of a written request therefor, or (v) payment of indemnification pursuant to Section 3, 4 or 7 of this Agreement is not made within ten (10) days after a determination has been made that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, Indemnitee shall be entitled to an adjudication by a court of his/her entitlement to such indemnification or advancement.
 
Alternatively, Indemnitee, at his/her option, may seek an award in arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association. Indemnitee shall commence such proceeding seeking an adjudication or an award in arbitration within 180 days following the date on which Indemnitee first has the right to commence such proceeding pursuant to this Section 13(a); , , that the foregoing clause shall not apply in respect of a proceeding brought by Indemnitee to enforce his/her rights under Section 5 of this Agreement. The Company shall not oppose Indemnitee's right to seek any such adjudication or award in arbitration.
provided
however
(b) In the event that a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 11(a) of this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification, any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 13 shall be conducted in all respects as a de novo trial, or arbitration, on the merits and Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of that adverse determination. In any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 13, the Company shall have the burden of proving Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification or advancement, as the case may be.
(c) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 11(a) of this Agreement that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 13, absent (i) a misstatement by Indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a material fact necessary to make Indemnitee's statement not materially misleading, in connection with the request for indemnification, or (ii) a prohibition of such indemnification under applicable law.
(d) The Company shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 13 that the procedures and presumptions of this Agreement are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Agreement. The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against any and all expenses and, if requested by Indemnitee, shall (within ten (10) days after receipt by the Company of a written request therefor) advance, to the extent not prohibited by law, such expenses to Indemnitee, which are incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any action brought by Indemnitee for indemnification or advancement from the Company under this Agreement or under any directors' and officers' liability insurance policies maintained by the Company, regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be entitled to such indemnification, advancement or insurance recovery, as the case may be, in the suit for which indemnification or advances is being sought.
(e) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, no determination as to entitlement to indemnification under this Agreement shall be required to be made prior to the final disposition of the Proceeding, including any appeal therein.
Section 14. .
Non-exclusivity; Survival of Rights; Insurance; Subrogation
(a) The rights of indemnification and to receive advancement as provided by this Agreement shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which Indemnitee may at any time be entitled under applicable law, the Charter, the Bylaws, any agreement, a vote of stockholders or a resolution of directors, or otherwise. No amendment, alteration or repeal of
 
this Agreement or of any provision hereof shall limit or restrict any right of Indemnitee under this Agreement in respect of any action taken or omitted by such Indemnitee in his/her Corporate Status prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal. To the extent that a change in Delaware law, whether by statute or judicial decision, permits greater indemnification or advancement than would be afforded currently under the Charter, Bylaws and this Agreement, it is the intent of the parties hereto that Indemnitee shall enjoy by this Agreement the greater benefits so afforded by such change. No right or remedy herein conferred is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every other right and remedy shall be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other right or remedy.
(b) The Company currently maintains an insurance policy or policies providing liability insurance for directors, officers, employees, or agents of the Company or of any other Enterprise, and to the extent liability insurance coverage of comparable scope can continue to be purchased at reasonable cost, the Company shall continue to maintain such coverage. Indemnitee shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage available for any such director, officer, employee or agent under such policy or policies. If, at the time of the receipt of a notice of a claim pursuant to the terms hereof, the Company has director and officer liability insurance in effect, the Company shall give prompt notice of the commencement of such proceeding to the insurers in accordance with the procedures set forth in the respective policies. The Company shall thereafter take all necessary or desirable action to cause such insurers to pay, on behalf of the Indemnitee, all amounts payable as a result of such proceeding in accordance with the terms of such policies. Where it is feasible to do so without materially impairing the Indemnitee's ability to defend himself/herself in a Proceeding, Indemnitee agrees to cooperate with the Company to maximize the insurance coverage applicable to a particular Proceeding, including without limitation by agreeing to be jointly represented by legal counsel with other directors, officers, employees, agents or fiduciaries of the Company who are also involved with the Proceeding, or by agreeing to legal representation by a legal services provider acceptable to the insurance carrier(s) that underwrite the liability insurance coverage purchased by the Company; that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to pressure an Indemnitee's or his/her legal counsel to violate any applicable rule of professional responsibility applicable to legal counsel's provision of legal services.
provided, however,
(c) In the event of any payment under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and take all action necessary to secure such rights, including execution of such documents as are necessary to enable the Company to bring suit to enforce such rights.
(d) The Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment of amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder (or for which advancement is provided hereunder) if and to the extent that Indemnitee has otherwise actually received such payment under any insurance policy, contract, agreement or otherwise.
 
(e) The Company's obligation to provide indemnification or advancement hereunder to Indemnitee who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of any other Enterprise shall be reduced by any amount Indemnitee has actually received as indemnification or advancement from such other Enterprise. Where Indemnitee has indemnification rights relating to a Proceeding through both the Company and any other Enterprise involved with the Proceeding and the other Enterprise disputes primary responsibility to advance Expenses to or indemnify Indemnitee, the indemnification rights under this Agreement shall apply; that the Company's agreement to protect Indemnitee will be without prejudice to any rights the Company may have to seek from such other Enterprise reimbursement of any expenses or other amounts paid on behalf of Indemnitee.
provided, however,
Section 15. . This Agreement shall continue until and terminate upon the later of: (a) ten (10) years after the date that Indemnitee shall have ceased to serve as a [director][ Section 16 officer] of the Company or (b) one (1) year after the final termination of any Proceeding, including any appeal, then pending in respect of which Indemnitee is granted rights of indemnification or advancement hereunder and of any proceeding commenced by Indemnitee pursuant to Section 13 of this Agreement relating thereto. This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of Indemnitee and his/her heirs, executors and administrators. The Company shall require and cause any successor (whether direct or indirect by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all, substantially all or a substantial part, of the business and/or assets of the Company, by written agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Indemnitee, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place.
Duration of Agreement
Section 16. . If any provision or provisions of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement (including without limitation, each portion of any Section of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law; (b) such provision or provisions shall be deemed reformed to the extent necessary to conform to applicable law and to give the maximum effect to the intent of the parties hereto; and (c) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Agreement (including, without limitation, each portion of any Section of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested thereby.
Severability
Section 17. .
Enforcement
(a) The Company expressly confirms and agrees that it has entered into this Agreement and assumed the obligations imposed on it hereby in order to induce Indemnitee to serve as [a director][an officer] of the Company, and the Company acknowledges that Indemnitee is relying upon this Agreement in serving as [a director][an officer] of the Company.
 
(b) This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, oral, written and implied, between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof; , , that this Agreement is a supplement to and in furtherance of the Charter of the Company, the Bylaws of the Company and applicable law, and shall not be deemed a substitute therefor, nor to diminish or abrogate any rights of Indemnitee thereunder.
provided
however
Section 18. . No supplement, modification or amendment, or waiver of any provision, of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by the parties thereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions of this Agreement nor shall any waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
Modification and Waiver
Section 19. . Indemnitee agrees promptly to notify the Company in writing upon being served with any summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information or other document relating to any Proceeding or matter which may be subject to indemnification or advancement covered hereunder. The failure of Indemnitee to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of any obligation which it may have to the Indemnitee under this Agreement or otherwise.
Notice by Indemnitee
Section 20. . All notices, requests, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if (a) delivered by hand and receipted for by the party to whom said notice or other communication shall have been directed, (b) mailed by certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third business day after the date on which it is so mailed, (c) mailed by reputable overnight courier and receipted for by the party to whom said notice or other communication shall have been directed or (d) sent by facsimile transmission, with receipt of oral confirmation that such transmission has been received:
Notices
(a) If to Indemnitee, at such address as Indemnitee shall provide to the Company.
(b) If to the Company to:
Lam Research Corporation
4650 Cushing Parkway
Fremont, California 94538
Attn: Chief Legal Officer
or to any other address as may have been furnished to Indemnitee by the Company.
Section 21. . To the fullest extent permissible under applicable law, if the indemnification provided for in this Agreement is unavailable to Indemnitee for any reason whatsoever, the Company, in lieu of indemnifying Indemnitee, shall contribute to the amount incurred by Indemnitee, whether for judgments, fines, penalties, excise taxes, amounts paid or to be paid in settlement and/or for Expenses, in connection with any claim relating to an indemnifiable event under this Agreement, in such proportion as is deemed fair and reasonable in light of all of the circumstances of such Proceeding in order to reflect (i) the relative benefits received by the Company and Indemnitee as a result of the event(s) and/or transaction(s) giving cause to such Proceeding; and/or (ii) the relative fault of the Company (and its directors, officers, employees and agents) and Indemnitee in connection with such event(s) and/or transaction(s).
Contribution
 
Section 22. . This Agreement and the legal relations among the parties shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to its conflict of laws rules. Except with respect to any arbitration commenced by Indemnitee pursuant to Section 13(a) of this Agreement, the Company and Indemnitee hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agree that any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be brought only in the Delaware Court, and not in any other state or federal court in the United States of America or any court in any other country, (ii) consent to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Delaware Court for purposes of any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, (iii) appoint, to the extent such party is not otherwise subject to service of process in the State of Delaware, The Corporation Trust Company, Wilmington, Delaware as its agent in the State of Delaware as such party's agent for acceptance of legal process in connection with any such action or proceeding against such party with the same legal force and validity as if served upon such party personally within the State of Delaware, (iv) waive any objection to the laying of venue of any such action or proceeding in the Delaware Court, and (v) waive, and agree not to plead or to make, any claim that any such action or proceeding brought in the Delaware Court has been brought in an improper or inconvenient forum.
Applicable Law and Consent to Jurisdiction
Section 23. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement. Only one such counterpart signed by the party against whom enforceability is sought needs to be produced to evidence the existence of this Agreement.
Identical Counterparts
Section 24. . The headings of the paragraphs of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this Agreement or to affect the construction thereof.
Miscellaneous
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be signed as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Lam Research Company Contact:
Ed Rebello, Corporate Communications., +1-510-572-6603;
edward.rebello@lamresearch.com
Shanye Hudson, Investor Relations, +1-510-572-4589,
shanye.hudson@lamresearch.com
Lam Research Completes its Merger with Novellus Systems
Newly Expanded Lam Research Also Adds Four Members to its Board of Directors
FREMONT, Calif., June 4, 2012 Lam Research Corp. (NASDAQ:LRCX) today announced that it has completed its merger with San Jose, Calif.-based Novellus Systems, Inc., (NASDAQ: NVLS).
With today's transaction close, Novellus shareholders will receive 1.125 shares of Lam Research common stock for each share of Novellus common stock that they own, in a tax-free exchange. The transaction was valued at a price of $40.48875 per common share, based on the closing price of Lam Research's stock on June 4, 2012. Lam Research stockholders and former Novellus shareholders now own approximately 57 percent and 43 percent of the combined company, respectively.
"We believe that this merger enables the newly expanded Lam Research to accelerate revenue growth at a faster pace by leveraging our technology adjacencies and complementary experience to more quickly deliver solutions addressing our customers' technology and productivity challenges," stated Martin Anstice, president and chief executive officer of Lam Research. "Moreover, our broader product portfolio, combined resources and greater scale enhance our ability to create value for our customers. We remain confident in our ability to achieve our cost synergy targets and are encouraged by the prospects for future revenue synergies."
Concurrent with today's transaction close, Lam Research expanded its board of directors to include four former Novellus board members.
Lam Research is a leading supplier of plasma etch- and single-wafer clean equipment that plays a pivotal role in defining the features and capabilities of next-generation semiconductor devices. With the
 
Lam Research Completes its Merger With Novellus Systems
 
addition of Novellus' innovative thin-film deposition and surface preparation product lines, the new Lam Research is well-positioned within the industry to support critical technology transitions including 3D structures in advanced logic and NAND memory, as well as the scaling to 450 mm wafers.
New Board Members:
Youssef A. El-Mansy, Ph.D., has been a director of Novellus since April 2004 and joins the Lam Research board of directors with the Novellus merger. He will serve on the Compensation Committee. Dr. El-Mansy is the retired vice president and director of logic technology development, at Intel Corp., a leading producer of microchips, computing and communications products, where he was responsible for managing technology development, the processor design center for Intel's Technology and Manufacturing Group and two wafer manufacturing facilities. Dr. El-Mansy joined Intel in 1979 and led microprocessor technology development at Intel for 20 years. Dr. El-Mansy holds both bachelor's and master's degrees in Electronics and Communications from Alexandria University in Egypt and a Ph.D. in Electronics from Carleton University in Ottawa, Canada.
Krishna Saraswat, Ph.D. has been a director of Novellus since February 2011 and joins the Lam Research board with the Novellus merger. He will serve on the Nominating and Governance Committee. Dr. Saraswat has served as the Rickey/Nielsen Professor in the School of Engineering at Stanford University since 2004. He has also served as Professor of Electrical Engineering and a Professor of Material Science and Engineering at Stanford University since 1983. Dr. Saraswat received his bachelor's degree in Electronics in 1968 from the Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, India, and his master's and doctorate degrees in Electrical Engineering in 1969 and 1974, respectively, from Stanford University.
William R. Spivey, Ph.D. has been a director of Novellus since May 1998, and he also currently serves on the boards of directors at Cascade Microtech, Inc., a developer of precision electrical test and measurement solutions, and Raytheon Company, a prime contractor on a broad portfolio of defense systems for government customers. Dr. Spivey will serve on Lam Research's Nominating and Governance Committee. Dr. Spivey was previously president and chief executive officer of Luminent, Inc., a producer of fiber optic components. He also has served as group president of the Network Products Group at Lucent Technologies, on the board of directors of Laird PLC, a global wireless
 
Lam Research Completes its Merger With Novellus Systems
 
connectivity solutions provider, and has held senior management positions at AT&T Microelectronics, and Tektronix, Inc. Dr. Spivey holds a bachelor's degree in Physics from Duquesne University, a master's degree in Physics from Indiana University of Pennsylvania and a Ph.D. in Management from Walden University.
Delbert A. Whitaker has been a director of Novellus since March 2002. He joins the Lam Research board of directors with the Novellus merger. Mr. Whitaker will serve on Lam Research's Audit Committee. From 1968 until his retirement in 2000, Mr. Whitaker was employed by Texas Instruments, Inc., a semiconductor company, where he held positions including senior vice president of Worldwide Analog and Standard Logic, vice president of the U.S. semiconductor business, and held various management positions in product departments, marketing and sales. Mr. Whitaker holds a bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering from Texas A&M University, where he is a member of the Engineering Advisory Board.
About Lam Research
Lam Research Corp. is a major supplier of innovative wafer fabrication equipment and services to the worldwide semiconductor industry. For more than 30 years, the Company has driven continuous improvements in chip performance, power consumption, and cost, contributing to the global proliferation of smartphones, computers, tablets, and other electronic products. Lam Research has been the leading supplier of high-throughput plasma etch equipment for more than a decade and later expanded its product offerings to include single-wafer clean systems. Headquartered in Fremont, Calif., Lam Research maintains a global network of service facilities throughout North America, Asia, and Europe to rapidly meet the needs of its global customer base. It is a NASDAQ-100 company whose common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market
SM
under the symbol LRCX. For more information, please visit .
http://www.lamresearch.com
 
Lam Research Completes its Merger With Novellus Systems
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This announcement contains, or may contain, "forward-looking statements" concerning Lam Research and Novellus (together such companies and their subsidiaries being the "Merged Company"), which are subject to the safe harbor provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Generally, the words "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "may," "should," "could," and other future-oriented terms identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the Merged Company's ability to drive value creation, expectations regarding revenue, our ability to deliver solutions to our customers' technology and productivity challenges, and expected cost synergies and any assumptions underlying any of the foregoing statements.
These forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the management of Lam Research and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Many of these risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond Lam Research's ability to control or estimate precisely and include, without limitation: the ability to realize the expected synergies or other benefits from the transaction in the amounts or in the timeframe anticipated; the potential harm to customer, supplier, employee and other relationships caused by the announcement or closing of the merger; the ability to integrate Novellus' and Lam Research's businesses in a timely and cost-efficient manner; uncertainties in the global economy and credit markets; unanticipated trends with respect to the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry; and rates of change in, future shipments, margins, market share, capital expenditures, revenue and operating expenses generally; volatility in quarterly results and in the stock price of the Merged Company; customer requirements and the ability to satisfy those requirements; customer capital spending and their demand for the Merged Company's products; the ability to defend the Merged Company's market share and to gain new market share; anticipated growth in the industry and the total market for wafer-fabrication and support equipment and the Merged Company's growth relative to such growth; levels of research and development expenditures; the estimates made, and the accruals recorded, in order to implement critical accounting policies (including but not limited to the adequacy of prior tax payments, future tax liabilities and the adequacy of the Merged Company's accruals relating to them); access to capital markets; the ability to manage and grow the Merged Company's cash position; the sufficiency of the Merged Company's financial resources to support future business activities (including but not limited to the repurchase program, operations, investments, debt service requirements and capital expenditures); inventory levels and inventory valuation adjustments; the impact of legal proceedings; unexpected shipment delays which adversely impact shipment volumes; inaccuracies related to the timing and satisfaction of remaining obligations related to vacated leases; the inability to recover the amortized cost of investments in auction-rate securities, market changes negatively affecting auction-rate securities and the government's inability to guarantee the underlying securities; the inability to enforce the Merged Company's patents and protect its trade secrets; and other risks and uncertainties, including those detailed from time to time in Lam Research's periodic reports and the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed by Lam Research on Form S-4, as declared effective by the SEC on March 28, 2012 (in each case under the caption Risk Factors or Forward Looking Statements or elsewhere). Lam Research cannot give any assurance that such forward-looking statements will prove to have been correct. The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this announcement. Neither Lam Research nor any other person undertakes any obligation to update or revise publicly any of the forward-looking statements set out herein, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.
 
Lam Research Completes its Merger With Novellus Systems
 
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to be a forecast, projection or estimate of the future financial performance of Lam Research, Novellus, or the Merged Company, following the implementation of the merger or otherwise. No statement in this announcement should be interpreted to mean that the earnings per share, profits, margins or cash flows of Lam Research or the Merged Company for the current or future financial years would necessarily match or exceed the historical published figures.
 


