FILE:STX/STX-8K-20031022151250.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In connection with the secondary offering of Seagate Common Shares consummated in July 2003, we, our controlling shareholder, New SAC, and our executive officers and directors entered into certain lock-up arrangements. The 90-day lock-up restriction that applied to Seagate and our executive officers and directors expires in accordance with its terms on October 22, 2003. With the expiration of the 90-day lock-up, our executive officers will have approximately 4.3 million shares eligible for sale. Under recently issued NASD and NYSE rules, due to the expiration of the 90-day lock-up, the managing underwriters from the July offering are prohibited from publishing research or offering an opinion on our securities in a public appearance until November 7, 2003.
 
Also, pursuant to our Shareholders Agreement among New SAC and certain members of our management, the ability of Stephen J. Luczo, our chief executive officer, William D. Watkins, our president and chief operating officer, and Charles C. Pope, our executive vice president and chief financial officer, to transfer any Seagate Common Shares that they acquired through the exercise of employee stock options was restricted prior to the July offering. In connection with the consummation of the July offering, however, the restrictions under the Shareholders Agreement on the ability of Stephen J. Luczo, William D. Watkins and Charles C. Pope to sell Seagate Common Shares expired. With the expiration of the 90-day lock-up period described above, these officers are not subject to contractual restrictions with respect to sales of Seagate Common Stock.
 
In addition, on October 21, 2003, Morgan Stanley, as representative of the underwriters in the July offering, agreed to modify the 180-day lock-up applicable to New SAC to permit the sale by New SAC of up to 16 million Seagate Common Shares before expiration of the lock-up on January 20, 2004.
 
Separately, we announced that we have recently received from the Securities and Exchange Commission a request for all research analyst reports regarding Seagate Technology published during the period commencing January 1, 2000 through August 30, 2003. We are cooperating fully with this investigation.
 
 
 
 
 
On October 21, 2003, we issued a press release to report our financial results for the quarter ended October 3, 2003. A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1. The information contained in this report and the attached press release is "furnished" but not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Press Release
Investor Relations Contact:
Rod Cooper (831.439.2371)
rod.j.cooper@seagate.com
 
Media Relations Contact:
Brian Ziel (831.439.5429)
brian.ziel@seagate.com
 
 
 
 
 
 October 21, 2003  Seagate Technology (NYSE: STX) today reported revenue of $1.74 billion, net income of $198 million, and diluted earnings per share of $0.40 for the quarter ended October 3, 2003, compared to revenue of $1.58 billion, net income of $110 million, and diluted earnings per share of $0.24 in the year-ago quarter. This represents a 10% increase in revenue, an 80% increase in net income and a 67% increase in diluted earnings per share from the year-ago quarter.
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
 
"One of Seagate's primary strategies is to profitably develop and supply reliable, industry-leading products to every major hard drive market," said Steve Luczo, Seagate chairman and chief executive officer. "The company continued to successfully execute on this strategy, producing strong financial and operational results, achieving significant milestones and seizing growth opportunities despite a dynamic competitive environment.
 
"During the September quarter we extended our lead in the personal storage market, which includes desktop and consumer electronics applications, and maintained the top position in the enterprise space. We introduced a 100GB/platter drive and a Seagate branded external hard drive for the retail market and are better positioned to supply the growing demand for storage-intensive PC and consumer applications. Momentus, our new notebook drive, has been well received by our OEM customers  shipping 312,000 units during the September quarter. We recently qualified two new top tier OEMs and we're confident in our ability to meet or exceed our goal of 10% market share as we exit the June 2004 quarter.
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal First Quarter 2004 Results
 
"This quarter's performance underscores Seagate's ability to produce excellent operating results in a fast-moving, technically complex and highly competitive hard disc drive marketplace while supporting our long-term focus on sustainable value creation and market leadership."
 
Financial Review
 
 
 
 
Dividend Information
 
The company has declared a quarterly cash distribution of $0.04 per share to be paid on or before November 21, 2003 to all common shareholders of record as of November 7, 2003.
 
Conference Call
 
Seagate Technology will hold a conference call to review the fiscal first quarter 2004 results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time today. The live webcast of the conference call can be accessed online at www.seagate.com. A replay of the call will be available beginning today at 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time through October 28 at 8:59 p.m. Pacific Time. The replay can be accessed from www.seagate.com or by telephone as follows:
 
USA: 800-642-1687
 
International: 706-645-9291
 
Access code: 2590429
 
For more information please visit: http://www.seagate.com/newsinfo/invest/financial_info
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal First Quarter 2004 Results
 
About Seagate
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacturing and marketing of hard disc drives, providing products for a wide-range of Enterprise, PC, Notebook, and Consumer Electronics applications. The company is committed to delivering award-winning products, customer support and reliability, to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at www.seagate.com.
 
Safe Harbor
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to future financial performance, price and product competition, customer demand for our products, and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this release and current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the company's control. In particular, such risks and uncertainties include the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disc drives; the company's and its competitors' ability to introduce, qualify, manufacture in volume and sell new products on a timely and cost-effective basis; competitive factors such as the impact of consolidation within the industry and the potential for excess supply; and the impact on operations or demand, particularly in Asia, of a reoccurrence of SARS. Information concerning additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 21, 2003. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal First Quarter 2004 Results
 
 
(a)  The information in this column was derived from the Company's audited consolidated balance sheet as of June 27, 2003.
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal First Quarter 2004 Results
 
 
 


