FILE:STX/STX-8K-20030416152740.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)    Exhibits.
 
 
 
In accordance with the interim guidance set forth in Release Nos. 33-8216 and 34-47583 issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 27, 2003, the following information (including the exhibits hereto) which is intended to be furnished under "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition," is instead being furnished under "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure." Such information (including the exhibits hereto) shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
On April 15, 2003, Seagate Technology issued an earnings release reporting its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 28, 2003. A copy of this earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. Following the issuance of this earnings release, Seagate Technology hosted an earnings call in which its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 28, 2003 were discussed. The script for this earnings call is attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto. On this earnings call, among other topics discussed by selected members of Seagate Technology's management, reference was made to Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA") for the fiscal quarter ended March 28, 2003 and for the first nine months of fiscal year 2003.
 
EBITDA was referenced on the earnings call because Seagate Technology's management believes that EBITDA is generally accepted as providing useful information regarding a company's ability to service and incur debt. EBITDA should not be considered, however, in isolation or as a substitute for net income, cash flows or other consolidated income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") or as a measure of a company's profitability or liquidity. Although EBITDA is frequently used as a measure of operating performance and ability to meet debt service requirements, it is not necessarily comparable to other similarly titled captions of other companies due to differences in methods of calculation. Net Income is the closest financial measure prepared by Seagate Technology in accordance with GAAP in terms of comparability to EBITDA. Set forth below is a tabular presentation of the differences between Net Income and EBITDA:
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 16, 2003
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 April 15, 2003  Seagate Technology (NYSE: STX) today reported revenue of $1.62 billion, net income of $174 million, and diluted earnings per share of $0.37 for the quarter ended March 28, 2003, compared to $1.69 billion, $193 million, and $0.45, respectively, in the year-ago quarter.
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
 
For the nine-month period ended March 28, 2003, Seagate reported revenue of $4.93 billion, net income of $481 million, and diluted earnings per share of $1.04, compared to $4.61 billion, $351 million and $0.85, respectively, for the nine months ended March 29, 2002.
 
The company shipped 16.6 million disc drives in the third fiscal quarter, reflecting an increase of 1.6 million units over the year-ago quarter. This includes approximately 4.6 million disc drives shipped on the 80GB/disc platform. The company expects OEMs still qualifying the 80GB/disc platform will complete qualification during the June quarter, and by the end of the June quarter substantially all of the company's personal storage shipments will be on this platform.
 
"Seagate's competitive advantages in the data storage marketplace, particularly our vertically integrated supply chain, drove solid financial results in what is a seasonally down quarter," said Steve Luczo, chairman and chief executive officer. "We continue to meet market challenges with leading technology, reliability and production flexibility which are defining characteristics of Seagate's leadership position. These enable us to offer a broad line of products that can be ramped up, qualified and shipped to meet quickly and cost-efficiently the changing needs of our customers in a dynamic market. We successfully ramped production of our 80GB/disc platform and expect continued progress in the upcoming quarter."
 
Consistent with its quarterly dividend policy, Seagate's board of directors has declared a quarterly cash distribution of $0.03 per share to be paid on or before May 23, 2003 to all common shareholders of record as of May 9, 2003.
 
Analyst and Investor Meeting
 
Seagate's senior management team will host a meeting for analysts and investors on Thursday, May 1, 2003. More information regarding this event and a link to the live webcast can be found at .
www.seagate.com
 
Conference Call
 
Seagate Technology will hold a conference call to review the third quarter results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time on April 15, 2003. The live webcast of the conference call can be accessed online at www.seagate.com. A replay of the call will be available beginning April 15 at 5:30 p.m. Pacific Time through April 22 at 11:59 p.m. Pacific Time. The replay can be accessed from www.seagate.com or by telephone as follows:
 
USA: 800-475-6701
International: 320-365-3844
Access code: 680315
 
About Seagate
 
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacturing and marketing of hard disc drives for Enterprise, PC and Consumer Electronics applications. The company is committed to delivering award-winning products, customer support and reliability, to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at www.seagate.com.
 
This release may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained in the forward-looking statements. All statements contained in this release that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking, and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "intends" and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements: risks in our ability to introduce, qualify, manufacture, and sell new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, the impact of changes in general world and domestic economic conditions in light of the military conflict in Iraq, the impact on operations and demand, particularly in the Far East, of the SARS outbreak, as well as other factors described in Seagate's Report on Form 10Q for the quarter ended December 27, 2002 and its Registration Statement on Form S-1, each as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company specifically disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the company's estimates or views as of any subsequent date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Script of Earnings Call
April 15, 2003
 
 
 
Operator  Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by. Welcome to Seagate Technology's fiscal third quarter earnings conference call. At this time all lines are in a listen only mode. Later, there will be an opportunity for questions. Instructions will be given at that time. If you should require assistance please press zero then star. This conference is being recorded.
 
I would like to remind you that certain statements by Seagate management during this conference might constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on management's current expectations and are made in good faith by the Company pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provision of the Act.
 
These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the Company's control.
 
In particular, such risks and uncertainties include the potential impact of changes in general world and domestic economic conditions in light of the military conflict in Iraq, the impact on operations or demand, particularly in the Far East, of the SARS outbreak; the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disc drives, particularly in the summer months; competitive factors such as the impact of consolidation within the industry and the potential for excess supply; and the company's and our competitors' ability to introduce, qualify, manufacture in volume and sell new products on a timely and cost-effective basis.
 
Information concerning additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 27, 2002 and Registration Statement on Form S-1.
 
These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr. Steve Luczo, Chairman and CEO. Please go ahead.
 
 
 
Steve  First I would like to start by welcoming everyone to the Seagate's fiscal third quarter conference call. On the call with me today is Charles Pope, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Bill Hudson, Executive Vice President and General Counsel, and Brian Dexheimer, Executive Vice President, Sales, Marketing & Customer Service.
 
I am pleased to report that Seagate continues to execute on its strategy with results that exceeded financial and operational objectives. In addition, we generated approximately $265 million in cash from operations during the quarter.
 
From an operations perspective, Seagate reached some important milestones. We had significant shipments during the quarter of the 80GB/disc platform and are now qualified at seven major OEMs and are in volume production. We fully expect that by the end of the June quarter substantially all of the company's personal storage shipments will be on this platform.
 
In addition, we are shipping notebook drives to OEMs for qualification. Our OEMs are eager to qualify an independent supplier and we believe this product is of the highest quality and reliability. This is an exciting growth opportunity for Seagate, and we expect that we will complete a majority of the qualifications in the June quarter and ramp volume shipments throughout the second half of calendar 2003.
 
We continue to extend our leadership position in Serial ATA disc drives with the only native Serial ATA drive in volume shipment. Our customers indicate that initial demand for Serial ATA drives is for high-end PCs and entry-level servers, which are applications that are currently served by 7200 rpm drives. Additionally, we believe future Serial ATA applications will be in systems that store fixed content and near-line storage capabilities. These applications have traditionally been served by storage solutions other than disc drives.
 
With respect to the overall demand for disc drives, we had indicated last quarter that we thought demand was firming and slightly more predictable than we had seen over the last two years. This held true in the March quarter as demand for desktop and consumer electronics drives were on par with our expectations. Also, although the total available market for enterprise drives was seasonally down consistent with our expectations, demand for Seagate's enterprise products was strong and we believe we grew enterprise market share during the quarter. Due to the reliability of our products as well as our production flexibility, we were able to satisfy unplanned upside demand from a number of key enterprise customers. As we've noted on several occasions, upside demand opportunity for our products is often a result of our competitors' lack of execution as well as material changes in our customers' forecasts. Meeting that demand is reflective of Seagate's technical and operational advantages and enhances our ability to receive and react to upside demand on an on-going basis.
 
As we mentioned in last quarter's call, appropriate industry inventory levels contribute to a healthy and more stable pricing environment. During the quarter, we remained focused on monitoring and managing our inventory levels across all products and geographies.
 
Despite a period of product transition and general economic uncertainty, the third quarter was a period of solid performance and important achievement for Seagate.
 
However, these quarterly results provide more than just a snapshot in time. They are instructive in understanding our unique structure, how we manage our business, and our competitive position. For example,
 
 
 
These characteristics help define Seagate's leadership position and are a unique competitive advantage. And, we believe, these are sustainable due to the significant investments, and the organizational and process change and time to deployment that they require. These improvements are integral to our success this quarter and will help drive solid financial results in the quarters to come, as they enhance our capabilities in delivering the products our customers require.
 
And now I'll turn the call over to Charles to give you more detail on our financial performance.
 
 
Charles  Thank you Steve. In the March quarter, revenue was $1.62 billion, unit shipments were 16.6 million, net income was $174 million, and diluted earnings per share was $0.37.
 
Unit shipments for enterprise storage products were 2.7 million compared to 2.9 million units shipped in the year ago period. When compared to the December quarter, shipments in the enterprise space increased by approximately 6% in a declining total available market, leading to what we believe is an approximate share gain of 8-10%.
 
Unit shipments for Personal storage products, including consumer electronics, were 13.9 million units compared to 12.2 million units in the year ago quarter. Included in the 13.9 million personal storage drives shipped this quarter, we estimate that drive shipments for use in Consumer Electronic applications were 568,000 drives compared to approximately 926,000 in the year-ago quarter, and 1.9 million in the December quarter. Shipments of the 80GB/disc products during the March quarter were approximately 4.6 million units.
 
The pricing environment during the March quarter for both enterprise and personal storage products was slightly better than we expected and is within historical ranges for price declines during a March quarter.
 
Looking forward, the June quarter historically experiences the highest rate of price erosion during the year. We expect the pricing environment for the current quarter to be within the historical norms.
 
Now let's take a look at revenue by channel and geographic region for the March quarter. OEM channel revenue was 61% of the total, down from 64% last quarter. Distribution revenue was 39%, up from 36% last quarter. North America revenue as a percent of the total was 33%, unchanged from last quarter, Asia Pacific was 35%, up from 34% last quarter and Europe was 32%, down from 33% last quarter.
 
Gross Margin for the just ended quarter was 26.8%, compared to 28.4% in the prior quarter. The sequential decline in Gross Margin percentage was due to a return to a more normal pricing environment, increased costs associated with ramping production of the new products, and lower overall total volume.
 
Total inventory on the balance sheet at the end of the March quarter was $301 million, a $9 million decrease from the prior quarter. Finished Goods decreased by $37 million, Raw Material increased by $18 million, and the balance of the change is in WIP.
 
Inventory turns for the March quarter were 15.8, a slight decline when compared to last quarter.
 
Aggregate channel inventory for Seagate at the end of the March quarter was approximately 5.6 weeks of supply, using a 13-week rolling average for distribution sales out. As has been discussed before, channel inventory of approximately 6 weeks provides the opportunity to have full product and geographic coverage without adverse pricing impacts. We believe that Seagate's channel inventory is below that of the overall industry, measured by weeks of supply and consists substantially of new generation drives. To the extent that industry channel inventory is currently above 6 weeks or climbs there during this quarter, pricing could be more aggressive within the distribution channel than we have modeled in the outlook I will present.
 
Capital Expenditures were $136 million during the March quarter, and $357 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2003. The company anticipates capital investment for fiscal year 2003 will be approximately $550 million.
 
Depreciation & Amortization was $113 million for the March quarter and $327 million fiscal year to date.
 
Cash Balance at the end of the quarter was $1.08 billion, an increase of $102 million from the prior quarter. Over the next couple of years we would expect to pay down our bank debt with cash generated from operations.
 
Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization for the March quarter was $295 million and $854 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2003.
 
Our Days Sales Outstanding for the March quarter was 37.
 
This completes my comments looking back at the March quarter. I'd now like to provide a revenue and earnings outlook for the June quarter and calendar 2003.
 
Excluding any negative impact to operations or the demand environment related to the hostilities in Iraq, the spread of SARS, or seasonal patterns in demand or pricing that are materially worse than those experienced historically, the company expects June quarter revenues of $1.52 billion to $1.56 billion and earnings per share of $0.26 to $0.30, on unit shipments of approximately 16.2 million drives. For the calendar year 2003, the company expects earnings per share in the range of $1.35 to $1.45. This outlook compares to consensus estimates for the June quarter of $0.24 and $1.17 for calendar 2003. Looking forward into calendar 2004 with the introduction of our notebook drive products, continuing growth in consumer electronics and other applications for disc drive technology and the prospect of generally improving economic conditions, we believe the outlook for year-over-year growth in revenues and earnings is excellent.
 
Finally, I would like to address one additional and very important topic before I turn the call back over to Steve. We understand there is significant interest and some confusion in the investment community regarding the expiration of the lock-up arrangements with our underwriters, which occurs on June 9, 2003. I'd like to spend the next couple of minutes explaining the arrangement.
 
As disclosed in our prospectus, on March 10, 2003, non-officer employees were permitted to sell, during the period from March 10 through June 9, up to 1,500 shares each which they acquired through vested options. While this would in theory have permitted the sale of a maximum of approximately 11.1 million shares in aggregate, to date we believe that only approximately 3.6 million shares have been transacted. While we can not know all the motivations of our employees who have not exercised this right to sell, we believe that in part this reflects their belief that there is significant appreciation potential for the shares.
 
With respect to the final expiration of the lock-up arrangements on June 9, approximately 39 million shares related option grants will be eligible for sale. Of these shares, approximately 9.5 million are held by officers who cannot immediately sell these shares in the open market because of Company's Securities Trading Policy, which limits the times that officers may transact company securities.
 
In accordance with the terms of the Seagate Technology Shareholders Agreement, Steve Luczo, Bill Watkins and I cannot sell any shares we might acquire through the exercise of options prior to the earlier of 18 months after the IPO or the distribution of any shares of the Company's stock by our principal shareholder, New SAC, unless such sales are consented to by our principal equity partners.
 
There are three courses of action which can be pursued with respect to the 351.5 million shares held by New SAC.
 
One course of action could be an open market sale, which is also subject to the restrictions described above under our Securities Trading Policy. Further, as an affiliate of the Company, under the federal securities laws, New SAC will be subject to the volume restrictions of Rule 144 with respect to any open market sales which will limit sales in any rolling three-month period to the greater of 1% of Seagate's outstanding share count (approximately 4.3 million shares presently) or the average weekly trading volume during the four calendar weeks before a notice of sale on Form 144 is filed.
 
Another action New SAC could pursue is a larger sale through a registered public offering.
 
A third action for New SAC would be to distribute some or all of their holdings in Seagate to its shareholders. Under the Seagate Technology Shareholders Agreement, such a distribution during the 18-month period following the IPO would require a decision by the New SAC Board of Directors and the unanimous consent of Silver Lake Partners, Texas Pacific Group and Steve Luczo. Moreover, following such a distribution, significant portions of the distributed shares will be subject to the sale restrictions of Rule 144.
 
Any decisions to pursue either open market sales a registered offering or a distribution will rest with the New SAC Board of Directors and that Board has not at this time made any decisions to pursue any of these actions.
 
For those of you interested in obtaining a copy of what I just explained with regard to the lock-up, you can find it in the Investor Relations section of our website at www.seagate.com.
 
That concludes my remarks. I will now turn the call back over to Steve.
 
 
SteveBefore we take questions, on behalf of our entire management team I want to take this opportunity to thank Seagate employees around the world for their exceptional teamwork and dedication that is fundamental to our continued operational and financial leadership. We've worked hard over the last five years to implement programs and training designed to advance our goal as an employer of choice. A recent survey indicated that employee satisfaction was at an all time high, as 86% of Seagate employees consider Seagate a good place to work, which is 10% higher than the industry average. That perspective is certainly reflected in our continued operational and financial performance. Our senior management is committed to continuing to make improvements in order to broaden, diversify, and enhance the quality and overall job satisfaction of our employees. And we believe that these survey results are an indication of initial success in these efforts.
 
I would also like to thank our suppliers and other partners who work with us everyday so we can deliver the industry-leading products that our customers need.
 
With that, we're ready to take questions.


