FILE:STX/STX-8K-20040120210716.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 20, 2004, we issued a press release to report our financial results for the quarter ended January 2, 2004. In this press release we also announced our intention to increase our quarterly dividend from $0.04 per share to $0.06 per share, contingent upon amending our existing credit agreements.
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
On January 20, 2004, we issued a press release to report our financial results for the quarter ended January 2, 2004. A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1. The information contained in this report and the attached press release is "furnished" but not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 January 20, 2004  Seagate Technology (NYSE: STX) today reported revenue of $1.76 billion, net income of $205 million, and diluted earnings per share of $0.41 for the quarter ended January 2, 2004, compared to revenue of $1.73 billion, net income of $198 million, and diluted earnings per share of $0.43 in the year-ago quarter.
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
 
For the six months ended January 2, 2004, Seagate reported revenue of $3.50 billion, net income of $403 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.81, compared to $3.31 billion, $308 million and $0.67, respectively for the six-month period ended December 27, 2002.
 
"In a challenging December quarter, Seagate recorded one of the highest levels of net income in the company's history and shipped a record 21.7 million disc drives while sustaining strong gross margins of 26.2%," said Steve Luczo, Seagate chairman and chief executive officer. "We met expectations and held market share in the enterprise market and far exceeded our expectations in the notebook market by achieving unprecedented initial market share with our reentry. However, despite a profitable and an overall successful quarter, our financial performance was below our expectations primarily due to unsatisfactory execution in the company's personal storage programs."
 
The predominant variables that affected the company's financial performance in the December quarter were a 1.4 million-unit shortfall to Seagate's personal storage shipment goals, and aggressive pricing in the personal storage market.
 
The majority of the unit shortfall occurred in the company's OEM customer base and was due to a combination of Seagate's decision not to sell certain products at unacceptable market prices and execution issues. The shortfall in OEM shipments resulted in Seagate's greater dependence on the global distribution channel during the quarter, particularly in December, which is more sensitive to spot market pricing.
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Second Quarter 2004 Results
 
Further aggravating this situation was an oversupply of personal storage products that resulted from the broader industry producing to an expectation of 8-10% sequential growth in the total available market for personal storage products, and not to the more modest growth that Seagate forecasted in October. The company believes total market growth was only 3% sequentially. In addition, Seagate, consistent with the industry, observed lower than expected, and lower than previous quarter channel sell through during the quarter, particularly in December. This lower than anticipated sell through was a catalyst for increased price pressure and resulted in higher than anticipated industry channel inventories ending the quarter  which Seagate calculates to be in excess of 6 weeks based on a 13-week rolling average.
 
As demonstrated consistently throughout the calendar year, Seagate was able to minimize the financial impact of a particular market weakness with strong performance in other markets. In the December quarter, Seagate partially offset the competitive market for personal storage products with strong unit sales of enterprise and notebook products. The company's broad product offering maximized Seagate's profitability despite the shipment shortfall and greater than expected price competition in the personal storage market.
 
"We have and will continue to manage our business, our investments in research and development, and our operations with the goal of maximizing our industry-leading profitability," said Luczo. "We believe that one of the key determinants of our success in executing this strategy is having an accurate sense of demand and trends. Insight into the dynamics of demand in our various markets is important in helping our stakeholders better understand our business."
 
Overall Industry Demand:
 
Seagate believes that the industry is experiencing several positive factors relative to overall demand including:
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Second Quarter 2004 Results
 
 
 
 
Personal Storage Products:
 
The personal storage market has been the largest and most dynamic space in recent quarters and Seagate believes it is important for the industry to characterize the trends and demands of this space as accurately as possible. Given anticipated seasonal declines, recent year-over-year and sequential growth rates, and the currently available market data, the company believes that the total available market for personal storage products in the third fiscal quarter will be in the range of 47-48 million units. This represents a year-over-year growth of 11-13% and is consistent with the September quarter's year-over-year growth as well as the need to reduce industry channel inventories ending the March quarter. Further, Seagate believes the current industry expectation of few, if any, new product introductions over the next two quarters creates a likelihood of stable market share. Therefore, Seagate expects its share of this market to be in the range of the past several quarters' actual performance at 32-34%. The company foresees the only possible share catalysts beyond this range to be any supply chain or product reliability disruptions experienced within the industry, or share gains achieved through aggressive pricing.
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Second Quarter 2004 Results
 
Mobile Storage Products:
 
Seagate shipped 1.9 million units in the December quarter, exceeding its market share goal of 10% six months ahead of schedule. The company remains focused on growing its customer base by completing qualifications among the top ten OEM notebook systems manufacturers. The company believes that further additional qualifications coupled with exceeding customers' expectations for reliability and supply chain performance offer it additional share growth opportunity. Based on current customer data and recent year-over-year growth rates in excess of 50%, Seagate estimates the total available market for all mobile storage products will be 16-17 million units in the March quarter.
 
Enterprise Storage Products:
 
Unit shipments were 2.7 million. As a result the company believes its market share in this space remains unchanged from previous quarter levels. Based on current customer data, historical demand patterns and recent market growth rates, Seagate believes the total available market for enterprise storage products will be approximately 5.5 million units in the March quarter.
 
Business Outlook
 
"In regards to addressing the Seagate specific performance issues in the personal storage space in our second fiscal quarter, the company has already undertaken a number of actions with both our OEMs and distribution partners that we believe will positively influence our fiscal third quarter results," said Luczo. "However, as a result of current inventory levels in the channel, normal seasonal decline in demand, and the pricing environment established at the end of the December quarter, our revised outlook for the March quarter is $0.20 to $0.30 earnings per share. And given the anticipated environment, we will not achieve our previously stated fiscal year expectations of $1.55 or $1.60 earnings per share.
 
"Until we have more information about the supply outlook for the industry, it is difficult to provide more specific earnings guidance at this time, as relatively small changes in volume or pricing can result in a broad range of earnings generation. As a result of these market conditions, we will deliver an update on the quarter during the week of March 1 to provide further guidance on expected financial performance."
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Second Quarter 2004 Results
 
Business Review
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Second Quarter 2004 Results
 
 
 
Conference Call
 
Seagate Technology will hold a conference call to review the fiscal second quarter 2004 results at 3:00 p.m. Pacific Time today. The live webcast of the conference call can be accessed online at www.seagate.com. A replay of the call will be available beginning today at 6:00 p.m. Pacific Time through January 27 at 8:59 p.m. Pacific Time. The replay can be accessed from www.seagate.com or by telephone as follows:
 
USA: 800-642-1687
International: 706-645-9291
Access code: 4806307
 
For more information please visit: http://www.seagate.com/newsinfo/invest/financial_info
 
About Seagate
 
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacturing and marketing of hard disc drives, providing products for a wide-range of Enterprise, PC, Notebook, and Consumer Electronics applications. The company is committed to delivering award-winning products, customer support and reliability, to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at www.seagate.com.
 
Safe Harbor
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to future financial performance, price and product competition, customer demand for our products, and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this release and current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the company's control. In particular, such risks and uncertainties include the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disc drives; the company's and its competitors' ability to introduce, qualify, manufacture in volume and sell new products on a timely and cost-effective basis; competitive factors such as the impact of consolidation within the industry and the potential for excess supply; and the impact on operations or demand, particularly in Asia, of a reoccurrence of SARS. Information concerning additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 21, 2003, and in the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on November 14, 2003. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Second Quarter 2004 Results
 
 
 
(a) The information in this column was derived from the Company's audited consolidated balance sheet as of June 27, 2003.
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Second Quarter 2004 Results
 
 
 


