FILE:STX/STX-8K-20041029133544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On October 28, 2004, the Registrant's shareholders approved the Registrant's 2004 Stock Compensation Plan (the "2004 Plan") that sets forth terms for the grant of stock-based awards to our employees, directors, and consultants.
 
The purpose of the 2004 Plan, which is intended to supplement and eventually succeed the Registrant's 2001 Share Option Plan, is to promote the Registrant's long-term growth and financial success by providing incentives to its employees, directors, and consultants through grants of stock-based awards.
 
All of the Registrant's employees, including executive officers, all of the members of the Registrant's board of directors, and the Registrant's consultants may participate in the 2004 Plan. The types of awards that will be available for grant under the Plan are: incentive stock options; nonstatutory stock options; restricted stock bonuses; restricted stock purchase rights; stock appreciation rights; phantom stock units; restricted stock units; performance share bonuses; and performance share units.
 
A total of 27,500,000 of the Registrant's common shares have been reserved for issuance under the 2004 Plan. No employee will be eligible to be granted options or stock appreciation rights covering more than 10,000,000 common shares during any fiscal year. No individual will be eligible to be granted restricted stock bonuses, restricted stock units, phantom stock units, performance share bonuses, or performance share units covering more than 10,000,000 common shares during the life of the 2004 Plan (note that this is a lifetime limit rather than an annual limit).
 
The Registrant's board of directors (the "Board of Directors") has the authority to, and intends to, delegate administration of the 2004 Plan to the Registrant's compensation committee (the "Compensation Committee"). The Compensation Committee, or the Board of Directors if the delegation of authority to the Compensation Committee is terminated or limited in the future, has the authority to: (i) designate participants in the 2004 Plan; (ii) determine the type(s), number, terms and conditions of awards, as well as the timing and manner of grant; (iii) interpret the 2004 Plan; (iv) establish, adopt or revise any rules and regulations to administer the 2004 Plan; and (v) make all other decisions and determinations that may be required under the 2004 Plan.
 
A director who is neither employed by the Registrant nor receives a management fee from the Registrant (an "Eligible Director") will automatically receive an initial grant of options to purchase 100,000 common shares on the date that the Eligible Director commences service on the Board of Directors. These options will have a per share exercise price equal to the fair market value of the Registrant's common stock on the date of grant and will generally vest at the rate of 25% per year for four years. Each Eligible Director will also automatically receive an annual grant of options to purchase 25,000 shares of the Registrant's common shares on the date the Eligible Director is re-elected, provided that he or she has served as a director for a period of at least six months prior to re-election. These annual grants will also generally vest at the rate of 25% per year for four years.
 
The Board of Directors may amend, suspend, or terminate the 2004 Plan in any respect at any time, subject to shareholder approval, if such approval is required by applicable law or stock exchange rules. However, no amendment to the 2004 Plan may materially impair any of the rights of a participant under any awards previously granted, without his or her consent. Unless earlier terminated by the Board of Directors, the 2004 Plan will expire on October 28, 2014. No awards may be granted under the 2004 Plan after that date.
The foregoing description of the 2004 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the provisions of the 2004 Plan, which is attached as Exhibit 10.24 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
(b) Mr. Edward J. Zander resigned from the Registrant's Board of Directors on October 28, 2004 and did not stand for re-election at the Registrant's annual meeting of shareholders, which was held on October 28, 2004.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.24
 
 
 
 
 
 
I.    PURPOSES.
 
 
 
 
II.    DEFINITIONS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III.    ADMINISTRATION.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV.    SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN.
 
 
 
 
V.    ELIGIBILITY.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VI.    OPTION PROVISIONS.
 
Each Option shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board shall deem appropriate. All Options shall be separately designated Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options at the time of grant, and, if certificates are issued, a separate certificate or certificates will be issued for shares of Common Stock purchased on exercise of each type of Option. The provisions of separate Options need not be identical, but each Option shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the Option or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
In the case of any deferred payment arrangement, interest shall be compounded at least annually and shall be charged at the market rate of interest and contain such other terms and conditions necessary to avoid a charge to earnings for financial accounting purposes as a result of the use of such deferred payment arrangement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VII.    NON-DISCRETIONARY STOCK AWARDS FOR ELIGIBLE DIRECTORS.
 
In addition to any other Stock Awards that Eligible Directors may be granted on a discretionary basis under the Plan, each Eligible Director of the Company shall be automatically granted without the necessity of action by the Board, the following option grants:
 
 
 
VIII.    PROVISIONS OF STOCK AWARDS OTHER THAN OPTIONS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Restricted Stock Unit is the right to receive the value of one (1) share of the Company's Common Stock at the time the Restricted Stock Unit vests. To the extent permitted by the Committee in the terms of his or her agreement, a Participant may elect to defer receipt of the value of the shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable upon the vesting of an award of Restricted Stock Units, so long as such deferral election complies with applicable law, including to the extent applicable, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). An election to defer such delivery shall be irrevocable and shall be made in writing on a form acceptable to the Company. The election form shall be filed prior to the vesting date of such Restricted Stock Units in a manner determined by the Board. When the Participant vests in such Restricted Stock Units, the Participant will be credited with a number of Restricted Stock Units equal to the number of shares of Common Stock for which delivery is deferred. Restricted Stock Units may be paid by the Company by delivery of shares of Common Stock, in cash, or a combination thereof, as the Board shall in its sole discretion deem appropriate, in accordance with the timing and manner of payment elected by the Participant on his or her election form, or if no deferral election is made, as soon as administratively practicable following the vesting of the Restricted Stock Unit.
 
Each Restricted Stock Unit agreement shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board shall deem appropriate. The terms and conditions of Restricted Stock Unit agreements may change from time to time, and the terms and conditions of separate Restricted Stock Unit agreements need not be identical, but each Restricted Stock Unit agreement shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Performance Share Unit is the right to receive the value of one (1) share of the Company's Common Stock at the time the Performance Share Unit vests. Participants may elect to defer receipt of the value of shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable upon the vesting of an award of performance shares. An election to defer such delivery shall be irrevocable and shall be made in writing on a form acceptable to the Company. The election form shall be filed prior to the vesting date of such performance shares in a manner determined by the Board. When the Participant vests in such performance shares, the Participant will be credited with a number of Performance Share Units equal to the number of shares of Common Stock for which delivery is deferred. Performance Share Units may be paid by the Company by delivery of shares of Common Stock, in cash, or a combination thereof, as the Board shall in its sole discretion deem appropriate, in accordance with the timing and manner of payment elected by the Participant on his or her election form, or if no deferral election is made, as soon as administratively practicable following the vesting of the Performance Share Unit.
 
Each Performance Share Unit agreement shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board shall deem appropriate. The terms and conditions of Performance Share Unit agreements may change from time to time, and the terms and conditions of separate Performance Share Unit agreements need not be identical, but each Performance Share Unit agreement shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
IX.    COVENANTS OF THE COMPANY.
 
 
 
 
Proceeds from the sale of Common Stock pursuant to Stock Awards shall constitute general funds of the Company.
 
XI.    CANCELLATION AND RE-GRANT OF OPTIONS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
XIII.    ADJUSTMENTS UPON CHANGES IN STOCK.
 
 
 
 
 
 
XIV.    AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN AND STOCK AWARDS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
XV.    TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF THE PLAN.
 
 
 
XVI.    EFFECTIVE DATE OF PLAN.
 
The Plan shall become effective on the date that it is approved by the shareholders of the Company, which approval shall be within twelve (12) months before or after the date the Plan is adopted by the Board. No Stock Awards may be granted under the Plan prior to the time that the shareholders have approved the Plan. The approval or disapproval of the Plan by the shareholders of the Company shall have no effect on any other equity compensation plan, program or arrangement sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
 
XVII.    CHOICE OF LAW.
 
The law of the State of California shall govern all questions concerning the construction, validity and interpretation of this Plan, without regard to such state's conflict of laws rules.
 


