FILE:STX/STX-8K-20040921170059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On September 20, 2004, we issued a press release to announce that New SAC, our largest shareholder, has sold 30 million of our common shares in a transaction underwritten by Goldman, Sachs & Co. In conjunction with this transaction, New SAC has agreed not to offer or sell any of its holdings of Seagate shares for the period ending October 20, 2004 without prior written consent of Goldman, Sachs & Co. A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 September 20, 2004  Seagate Technology (NYSE:STX) announced today that its largest shareholder, New SAC, has sold 30 million shares in a transaction underwritten by Goldman, Sachs & Co. This sale represents approximately 10.6 % of New SAC's holdings in Seagate.
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
 
This sale was made under Seagate's S-3 registration statement covering resales of Seagate stock held by New SAC and reflects the continued orderly disposition of New SAC's holdings of Seagate stock.
 
Copies of the final prospectus supplement, when available, may be obtained from the offices of Goldman, Sachs & Co., 85 Broad Street, New York, New York 10004.
 
About Seagate
 
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacturing and marketing of hard disc drives, providing products for a wide-range of Enterprise, Desktop, Mobile Computing, and Consumer Electronics applications. The company is committed to delivering award-winning products, customer support and reliability, to meet the world's growing demand for information storage.
 


