FILE:STX/STX-8K-20040430144353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events and Required FD Disclosure
 
On April 29, 2004, Seagate Technology announced that it will separate the roles of its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. This change will include the planned succession of Bill Watkins, currently Seagate's President and Chief Operating Officer, who will transition into the role of CEO and President on July 3, 2004, which is the beginning of Seagate's fiscal year 2005. Steve Luczo, Seagate's current Chairman and CEO, will continue to serve as Chairman of Seagate's board of directors.
 
Additionally, on April 29, 2004, Seagate Technology announced that Gregorio Reyes and Lydia Marshall were named to Seagate Technology's board of directors and David Bonderman, of the Texas Pacific Group, resigned his position on the Company's board of directors, effective April 29, 2004.
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 April 29, 2004  The Board of Directors of Seagate Technology (NYSE:STX) today announced it will separate the roles of the company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. This change will include the planned succession of Bill Watkins, currently company President and Chief Operating Officer, who will transition into the role of Chief Executive Officer and President on July 3, 2004, which is the beginning of Seagate's fiscal year 2005. Steve Luczo, Seagate's current Chairman and CEO, will continue to serve as Chairman of Seagate's board of directors.
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
 
Watkins was appointed COO in August of 1998, and President in June 2000. Watkins has been responsible for the company's hard disc drive operations, including recording heads, media and other components, and related R&D and product development organizations. Today's announcement recognizes the planned succession of Watkins to the CEO role, as he has been a driving force in the strong management team that has guided the company through its transition into a more efficient, productive, world-class technology provider.
 
"This year Seagate celebrates 25 years of accomplishment and progressive thinking," Luczo said. "At this point in the cultural evolution of the company, the time is right for a new chief executive to lead Seagate. Under our current organizational structure, Bill has already been running many of Seagate's day-to-day operations, and the entire management team has been actively involved in key planning and decision making. The unique combination of Bill's
 
Seagate Separates Chairman and CEO Roles
 
industry knowledge, strength of character and determination are essential attributes which will enable Seagate to continue its industry leadership in a world in which digital storage is becoming increasingly important."
 
"I am very enthusiastic about the opportunity Steve, the board, and Seagate employees around the world have provided to me," said Watkins. "Today we face significant challenges and even greater opportunities, and I believe we have the vision, the business model and the commitment to drive new levels of growth and success for Seagate."
 
"What Steve and his team have done, leading a strategic transformation which has resulted in a customer-driven technology leader, has been remarkable," said Ed Zander, Chairman and CEO of Motorola, Inc. and a member of Seagate's board of directors. "Operationally, Seagate is a stronger company now, well-positioned to address the rapidly evolving technology market, and Bill is the right person to build on Seagate's leadership position."
 
In his role as Chairman, Luczo will continue to be responsible for Seagate's strategic direction, including assessing macro trends in technology and the opportunities they present.
 
As part of this transition, Dave Wickersham, currently executive vice president of Global Storage Operations at Seagate, will assume the additional role of COO formerly held by Watkins. Wickersham, who is currently responsible for the company's disc drive manufacturing operations, will have the additional responsibility for product development. He will continue reporting to Watkins in this new role.
 
Additionally, in support of the company's ongoing effort to increase the independent make-up of its board of directors, Gregorio Reyes, currently a management consultant with an extensive background in data storage and magnetic recording, and Lydia Marshall, Chair of the board CARE International and Chair and CEO of Versura, Inc., have been elected as new board members. David Bonderman, of the Texas Pacific Group, has resigned his position on Seagate's board of directors, effective April 29, 2004.
 
About Seagate
 
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacturing and marketing of hard disc drives, providing products for a wide-range of Enterprise, PC, Notebook, and Consumer Electronics applications. The company is committed to delivering award-winning products, customer support and reliability, to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at www.seagate.com.
 
Seagate Separates Chairman and CEO Roles
 
Safe Harbor
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to future financial performance, customer demand for our products, and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this release and current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the company's control. Information concerning additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 21, 2003, and in the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 3, 2004.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 April 29, 2004  Seagate Technology (NYSE:STX) today announced that in support of the company's ongoing effort to increase the independent make-up of its board of directors, it has named Gregorio Reyes, currently a management consultant with an extensive background in data storage, and Lydia Marshall, Chair of CARE International and Chair and CEO of Versura, Inc., as new board members. David Bonderman, of the Texas Pacific Group, has resigned his position on Seagate's board of directors, effective April 29, 2004.
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
 
Reyes brings to the Seagate board over 40 years of experience in the technology industry, primarily in the areas of data storage and magnetic recording, semiconductors and telecommunications. Reyes began his career in the semiconductor industry with National Semiconductor in 1962, followed by executive positions with Motorola, Fairchild Semiconductor and Eaton. From 1981 to 1984 he was president and CEO of National Micronetics, a provider of hard disc magnetic recording head products for the data storage industry. Between 1986 and 1990, he was chairman and CEO of American Semiconductor Equipment Technologies. Reyes co-founded Sunward Technologies in 1985 and served as Chairman and CEO until 1994.
 
Reyes is currently serving on the boards of two publicly traded companies: LSI Logic Corp. and Dialog Semiconductor. He also serves as a director of four privately held companies: LSI Logic Storage Systems, Inc., Nuera Communications, Future Trade Technology, Appshop and Astute Networks.
 
Seagate Names Two New Board Members
 
In a career spanning over 30 years, Marshall has a broad background in marketing, finance, and technology in the packaged goods and financial services industries. Marshall first made her mark in product management positions with the Ralston Purina Company. Transitioning to the financial services industry, Marshall held various management and executive positions at Citicorp. From 1985 to 1997 she served as senior vice president then executive vice president and member of the executive committee at Sallie Mae, the nation's largest student loan secondary market. After serving as managing director at Rockport Capital from 1998-1999, in 1999 Marshall founded Versura Inc., the only student loan exchange in the $40 billion education finance sector.
 
Marshall currently serves as Chair of the board for CARE International, and serves on the boards of Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. and Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company.
 
About Seagate
 
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacturing and marketing of hard disc drives, providing products for a wide-range of Enterprise, PC, Notebook, and Consumer Electronics applications. The company is committed to delivering award-winning products, customer support and reliability, to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at www.seagate.com.
 
Safe Harbor
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to future financial performance, customer demand for our products, and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this release and current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the company's control. Information concerning additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 21, 2003, and in the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 3, 2004.
 
 


