FILE:STX/STX-8K-20051222171618.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On December 20, 2005, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Registrant's board of directors approved changes to the cash compensation offered to independent board members, effective immediately.
 
Current board membership annual retainers and the Audit Committee chair annual retainer will be maintained at their current levels. Members of the committees will be compensated with an annual retainer, in lieu of per meeting payments. Such committee membership retainers will be paid in addition to the annual board retainer each board member receives. Board members serving as either a chair of the Compensation Committee or the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will receive an annual cash retainer of $15,000. Board members serving as members of the Audit Committee will each receive an annual cash retainer of $25,000. Board members serving as members of either the Compensation Committee or the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will each receive an annual cash retainer of $10,000.
 
The revised Seagate Technology Approved Fiscal Year 2006 Independent Board Member Compensation, attached as Exhibit 10.29, replaces in its entirety the Seagate Technology Approved Fiscal Year 2006 Independent Board Member Compensation, dated April 28, 2005, which is attached as Exhibit 10.28 to the Registrant's quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on April 29, 2005.
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 10.29
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
Former CEO of Viacom, Universal Studios and HBO brings extensive consumer-entertainment experience
 
 December 22, 2005  Seagate Technology (NYSE: STX), the world's leading hard drive company, today announced that Frank J. Biondi, Jr., a former chief executive with Viacom, Inc., Universal Studios and Home Box Office, has joined the company's board of directors and has become a member of the audit committee.
SCOTTS VALLEY, Calif.
 
Biondi is currently senior managing director of WaterView Advisors LLC, a private equity fund specializing in media investments.
 
In addition to serving as CEO of leading entertainment companies Viacom, Universal Studios and Home Box Office during the 1980s, Biondi also was an executive with The Coca-Cola Company, Columbia Pictures, Sesame Workshop, TelePrompTer Corporation and the predecessors of Salomon Smith Barney and Prudential Securities.
 
Biondi currently serves on the boards of The Bank of New York, Amgen, Hasbro, Harrah's Entertainment, Cablevision Systems and The Museum of Television and Radio.
 
He is a founding member of the University of Southern California's Board of Councilors of the School of Cinema-Television and is on the board of advisors for the Annenberg School for Communication. He received a B.A. from Princeton University and an M.B.A. from Harvard University.
Frank J. Biondi, Jr. Joins Seagate Board of Directors
2-2-2
 
About Seagate
 
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacturing and marketing of hard disc drives, providing products for a wide-range of Enterprise, Desktop, Mobile Computing, and Consumer Electronics applications. Seagate's business model leverages technology leadership and world-class manufacturing to deliver industry-leading innovation and quality to its global customers, and to be the low cost producer in all markets in which it participates. The company is committed to providing award-winning products, customer support and reliability to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at .
www.seagate.com
 
Seagate, Seagate Technology and the Wave logo are U.S. registered trademarks of Seagate Technology LLC.
 


