FILE:STX/STX-8K-20050608080737.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD
 
In-Quarter Business Update
 
Seagate reconfirms its expectation for revenue of $2.1 billion and diluted earnings per share of $0.50 for the quarter ending July 1, 2005. This guidance, originally in a Current Report on Form 8-K that Seagate filed with the SEC on May 17, 2005, is based on operating results in the current quarter and Seagate's expectations for the last four weeks of the quarter. In particular:
 
 
 
 
 
At the Bear Stearns Technology Conference in New York today, Seagate executives will provide further commentary regarding the current operating environment for Seagate.
 
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K is "furnished" but not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to future financial performance, price and product competition, customer demand for our products, pricing of our products and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K and current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond Seagate's control. In particular, such risks and uncertainties include the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disc drives; dependence on Seagate's ability to successfully manufacture in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality its current disc drive products; and the adverse impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disc drive products. Information concerning additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in Seagate's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on September 3, 2004 and in Seagate's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on April 29, 2005. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing Seagate's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


