FILE:STX/STX-8K-20050419163019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 19, 2005, we issued a press release to report our financial results for the fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2005. A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information contained in this report and the attached press release is "furnished" but not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 April 19, 2005  Seagate Technology (NYSE: STX) today reported revenue of $1.97 billion, net income of $229 million, and diluted earnings per share of $0.45 for the quarter ended April 1, 2005. These results represent a 42% increase in revenue and a 44% increase in net income over the results from the year-ago quarter, and are an improvement from the guidance provided in the company's March 7
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
th
business update. Income from operations for this quarter grew to $237 million compared to $53 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
"Disc drives are a central, enabling technology for the digital convergence that is driving the electronics industry, and the disc drive industry is experiencing strong revenue growth as a result," said Bill Watkins, Seagate's president and CEO. "Seagate's strong sequential and year-over-year performance is a direct result of our unique ability to deliver the technology leadership, product leadership and cost leadership, helping to fuel the tremendous growth in consumer electronics applications and expanding the capabilities of traditional computing applications. Our broad product line is producing consistently strong results, countering even the seasonally weak periods in the disc drive industry, such as the March quarter. And moving forward, we are confident that Seagate will maintain strong revenue and earnings in the June quarter, which is then followed by what we expect to be a seasonally strong second half of calendar 2005."
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2005 Results
 
Consumer Electronics Products
 
Seagate maintained its leadership position in the consumer electronics market, the fastest growing segment in the disc drive industry. The company shipped a total of 4.2 million drives in the March quarter for handheld, gaming and DVR applications, an increase of 296% from the year-ago quarter and an increase of 24% quarter-over-quarter. Strong customer adoption of ST1, the industry's highest capacity and most widely used 1-inch drive, continued during the quarter, resulting in shipments of 1.9 million units, a 30% increase quarter-over-quarter. During the quarter, Seagate began volume shipments of its 3-disc 400GB DB35 drive designed for capacity-intensive applications such as video on-demand, high-definition television recording and home media centers.
 
Mobile Computing Products
 
The March quarter marked Seagate's third consecutive quarter of share growth in the mobile computing space as unit shipments climbed to 1.8 million units, an 85% increase from the year-ago quarter and a 44% increase from the December quarter. During the quarter, the company began volume shipments of its leading 5400RPM 100GB 2.5-inch disc drive for internal and external storage applications. The company has once again extended its technology leadership in this space with yesterday's announcement of the industry's first 5400RPM 120GB and 7200RPM 100GB notebook drives.
 
Enterprise Products
 
Seagate, for the second consecutive quarter, delivered a record number of enterprise drives as industry demand in this space reached record levels. Seagate shipped 3.4 million units, maintaining its leadership position in this space and growing shipments 38% year-over-year.
 
Desktop Products
 
In a seasonally down quarter, Seagate continued to lead the market with shipments of 15.5 million units. Seagate experienced strong demand for its products throughout the quarter in all channels and exited the quarter with less than 4 weeks of distribution channel inventory. Unit shipments of its Barracuda disc drives at capacities of 200GB and greater increased 43% sequentially, propelled by the introduction of its 3-disc, 400GB drive.
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2005 Results
 
Pricing
 
The average selling price for all Seagate products, on a blended basis, increased almost three dollars over the December quarter. Price erosion on a "like for like" product basis during the March quarter was favorable to the historical norms, but slightly greater than the December quarter.
 
Business Outlook
 
Seagate is confident that, with the ongoing customer adoption of its extensive product portfolio, new revenue opportunities and solid operational execution, it is very well positioned to continue its strong financial performance during the June quarter, which is typically the slowest quarter of the year. As a result, the company expects June quarter revenue and earnings to be comparable to the March quarter results. Looking beyond the June quarter, the industry enters the seasonally stronger half of the year which under today's environment would translate into growth in revenue and earnings from the levels of the March and June quarters. Seagate will provide a business update during the week of June 6, 2005.
 
Dividend
 
The company has declared a quarterly cash distribution of $0.08 per share to be paid on or before May 20, 2005 to all common shareholders of record as of May 6, 2005.
 
Conference Call
 
Seagate will hold a conference call to review the fiscal third quarter results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time today. The conference call can be accessed online at www.seagate.com or by telephone as follows:
 
USA: (877) 223-6202
International: (706) 679-3742
 
Replay
 
A replay will be available beginning April 19 at 5 p.m. Pacific Time through April 26 at 8:59 p.m. Pacific Time. The replay can be accessed from www.seagate.com/newsinfo/invest or by telephone as follows:
 
USA: (800) 642-1687
International: (706) 645-9291
Access code: 5431827
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2005 Results
 
For more information please visit:
http://www.seagate.com/newsinfo/invest/financial_info
 
About Seagate
 
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacturing and marketing of hard disc drives, providing products for a wide-range of Enterprise, Desktop, Mobile Computing, and Consumer Electronics applications. Seagate's business model leverages technology leadership and world-class manufacturing to deliver industry-leading innovation and quality to its global customers, and to be the low cost producer in all markets in which it participates. The company is committed to providing award-winning products, customer support and reliability to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at .
www.seagate.com
 
Safe Harbor
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to future financial performance, price and product competition, customer demand for our products, and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this release and current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the company's control. In particular, such risks and uncertainties include the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disc drives; dependence on the company's ability to successfully manufacture in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality its current disc drive products; and the adverse impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disc drive products. Information concerning additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on September 3, 2004 and in the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on January 28, 2005. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2005 Results
 
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2005 Results
 
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2005 Results
 
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2005 Results
 
 
 


