FILE:STX/STX-8K-20060912164624.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(b) On September 8, 2006, Mr. David A. Wickersham, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, was promoted to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer. In connection with Mr. Wickersham's appointment as our President and Chief Operating Officer on September 8, 2006, Mr. William D. Watkins, our Chief Executive Officer and one of our Directors, relinquished the title of President. Mr. Watkins remains our Chief Executive Officer and a Director.
(c) As described in (b) above, Mr. Wickersham was promoted to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer on September 8, 2006. Mr. Wickersham joined us in May 1998 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Materials. He assumed responsibilities for Worldwide Product Line Management in August 1999. In May 2000, he was promoted to Executive Vice President and in April 2004, assumed the responsibility of Chief Operating Officer. Prior to joining us, Mr. Wickersham was Vice President, Worldwide Materials at Maxtor Corporation from 1996 to May 1998. From 1993 to 1996, Mr. Wickersham was Director of Corporate Materials at Exabyte Corporation. From 1978 to 1993, he held various management positions at IBM.
Mr. Wickersham is party to an employment agreement with our indirect subsidiary, Seagate Technology (US) Holdings, Inc., entered into in February 2001. The terms of Mr. Wickersham's employment agreement were described in Seagate's proxy statement for its 2005 annual meeting and have not changed as a result of Mr. Wickersham's promotion to President. Mr. Wickersham's base salary for fiscal 2007 is $725,000 and Mr. Wickersham's target bonus for fiscal 2007 is 125% of his 2007 base salary.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Seagate has prepared an Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations for the year ended June 30, 2006, which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
On September 12, 2006, Seagate issued a press release entitled "Seagate Technology announces offering of $1.25 billion of senior unsecured notes and intention to enter into new $500 million credit facility", which is filed as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Seagate Technology ("Seagate") acquired all of the outstanding common stock, assumed and converted all outstanding nonvested stock into Seagate common shares, and assumed all outstanding options to purchase common stock of Maxtor Corporation ("Maxtor") in a stock for stock transaction announced on December 21, 2005 and consummated on May 19, 2006. The following Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations is based on the historical financial statements of Seagate and Maxtor after giving effect to the acquisition of Maxtor by Seagate (the "Merger") using the purchase method of accounting and applying the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 is presented as if the Merger had occurred on July 2, 2005. An unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet is not presented because the acquisition of Maxtor occurred prior to, and is already reflected in the June 30, 2006 Seagate historical balance sheet included in Seagate's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. You should read this information in conjunction with the accompanying notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations and separate historical financial statements of Seagate as of and for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, included in the Seagate annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006.
The pro forma information presented is for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have been realized if the Merger had been completed on July 2, 2005, nor is it indicative of future operating results. The pro forma adjustments are based upon assumptions that Seagate believes are reasonable.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations does not include the effects of:
 
 
 
 
 
Seagate and Maxtor have different fiscal year ends which end on the Friday closest to June 30 and the last Saturday in December, respectively. As such, Maxtor's historical results have been aligned to more closely conform to those of Seagate. In addition, certain reclassifications have been made to Maxtor's historical financial statements to conform to the presentation used in Seagate's historical financial statements. Such reclassifications had no effect on Maxtor's previously reported net income or income from continuing operations.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 has been derived from:
 
 
 
 
 
On December 20, 2005, Seagate and Maxtor entered into a definitive merger agreement and announced the Merger on December 21, 2005. The transaction was consummated on May 19, 2006 and Maxtor became a wholly owned subsidiary of Seagate. The transaction was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. This pro forma statement of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 is presented as if the transaction had been consummated on July 2, 2005.
The total purchase price of the Merger was as follows (in millions):
 
Each share of Maxtor common stock was exchanged for 0.37 of the Company's common shares. The Company issued approximately 96.9 million common shares to Maxtor's shareholders. Based on the average closing price of the Company's common shares on the NYSE for the two days prior to, including, and two days subsequent to the public announcement of the merger (December 21, 2005) of $20.02 and including capitalized acquisition-related costs and the fair value of options assumed and nonvested shares exchanged, the transaction was valued for accounting purposes at approximately $2.0 billion. The Company also assumed all outstanding options to purchase Maxtor common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $16.10 per share. Each option assumed was converted into an option to purchase the Company's common shares after applying the 0.37 exchange ratio. In total, the Company assumed and converted Maxtor options into options to purchase approximately 7.1 million of the Company's common shares. The Company also assumed and converted all outstanding Maxtor nonvested stock into approximately 1.3 million of the Company's nonvested shares, based on the exchange ratio. The fair value of options assumed and nonvested shares exchanged had a fair value of approximately $86 million as estimated using the Black-Scholes valuation model.
 
Purchase Price Allocation
In accordance with SFAS No. 141 (SFAS 141), the allocation of the total purchase price to Maxtor's tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed was based on their fair values as of May 19, 2006 and the residual value was allocated to goodwill. The fair values of liabilities were determined based on market values of the traded debt securities, or the present values of the amounts to be paid, unless they were expected to be settled in a short period, in which case discounting was not performed.
Business Combinations
The values assigned to certain acquired assets and liabilities are preliminary, are based on information available as of June 30, 2006, and may be adjusted as further information becomes available during the allocation period of up to 12 months from the acquisition date (in accordance with SFAS 141). Additional information that may become available subsequently and may result in changes in the values allocated to various assets and liabilities includes, but is not limited to, changes in the timing and actual number of employees terminated and the location of these employees, the period it takes to vacate and successfully market owned and leased facilities and the selling prices or sublet rental rates secured, the net resale values of plant and equipment, previously unidentified claims from suppliers or other contingent obligations, including warranty liabilities, and the amounts required to settle them, the progress or outcomes of various litigation, and the outcomes of previously identified or unidentified customer claims. Any changes in the values allocated to tangible and specifically identified intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed during the allocation period may result in material adjustments to goodwill.
The following represents the Company's preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the acquired assets and liabilities assumed of Maxtor (in millions):
 
 
2. PRO FORMA ADJUSTMENTS
The following pro forma adjustments are included in the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Seagate Technology (NYSE: STX) today announced that it intends to offer, subject to market and other conditions, three series of debt securities for an aggregate principal amount of $1.25 billion. Seagate expects the $1.25 billion senior unsecured notes will be comprised of three-year floating rate notes, and five- and ten-year fixed rate notes. The notes are expected to be issued by Seagate Technology HDD Holdings, a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Seagate Technology, and guaranteed by Seagate Technology on a full and unconditional basis.
SCOTTS VALLEY, Calif.  September 12, 2006 
Seagate intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to redeem the $400 million principal amount of its 8% Senior Notes due 2009, to fund a portion of its previously announced $2.5 billion stock repurchase program and for general corporate purposes.
Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan and Goldman, Sachs & Co. are acting as joint book-running managers of the offering.
Seagate also announced today that it intends to enter into an amended and restated unsecured revolving credit facility providing for borrowings of up to $500 million with a five-year maturity. Seagate may use borrowings under this facility from time to time to fund, among other things, additional share repurchases under the program described above.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any of the securities nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state. The offering of securities may be made only by means of a prospectus.
 
Page 1
Seagate Technology Announces Offering of $1.25 Billion of Senior Unsecured Notes and Intention to Enter into New $500 Million Credit Facility
2-2-2
After a registration statement has been filed, copies of the prospectus can be obtained from:
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
180 Varick Street
New York, New York 10014;
Attention: Prospectus Department
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
270 Park Avenue - 8th Floor Syndicate Desk
New York, New York 10017
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
85 Broad Street
New York, NY 10004
Attention: Prospectus Department
About Seagate
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of hard disc drives, providing products for a wide-range of Enterprise, Desktop, Mobile Computing, and Consumer Electronics applications. Seagate's business model leverages technology leadership and world-class manufacturing to deliver industry-leading innovation and quality to its global customers, and to be the low cost producer in all markets in which it participates. The company is committed to providing award-winning products, customer support and reliability to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at .
www.seagate.com
Seagate and Seagate Technology are registered trademarks of Seagate Technology LLC.
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the proposed offering of senior unsecured notes, the anticipated amended and restated credit facility and the anticipated use of proceeds therefrom. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this press release. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the company's control. In particular, such risks and uncertainties include the impact of conditions in the credit markets generally and, in particular, for companies in the markets in which Seagate operates. Information concerning additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on September 11, 2006. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
The issuer and the guarantor of the securities that are the subject of this press release may file a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the guarantor has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer, the guarantor and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC web site at . Alternatively, the issuer, the guarantor, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you a prospectus if you request by calling toll-free 1-866-718-1649.
www.sec.gov


