FILE:STX/STX-8K-20061003145117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
(b) On September 28, 2006, Glenn H. Hutchins, one of our directors, formally notified the Board that he will not stand for re-election at the Company's 2006 Annual General Meeting to be held on October 26, 2006. Mr. Hutchins' decision not to stand for re-election was not the result of any disagreement with the Company.
In a letter to Mr. Stephen J. Luczo, the Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors, Mr. Hutchins, who is affiliated with Silver Lake Partners, noted that Silver Lake has substantially reduced its ownership in the Company over time and currently holds less than 5% of the outstanding common shares of Seagate. Mr. Hutchins further noted that, with Silver Lake's reduced ownership interest in Seagate in mind, Silver Lake felt that it ought to reallocate certain of its executive resources to other endeavors and that he had therefore decided to not stand for re-election. James A. Davidson, another of our directors who is affiliated with Silver Lake Partners, remains a member of our Board. The text of Mr. Hutchins' letter to Mr. Luczo is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
September 28, 2006
Mr. Stephen J. Luczo
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Seagate Technology
920 Disc Drive
Scotts Valley, California 95066
Dear Steve,
I am writing to let you know that, as much as I have enjoyed being a member of the Board of Directors of Seagate Technology over the years, I will not be standing for re-election this coming annual meeting. As you know, active engagement with management through board representation is a cornerstone of our firm's philosophy. Dave Roux, Jim Davidson and I have all served on Seagate's board and each of us has found great personal and professional satisfaction in doing so. As is the natural progression with our funds' investments, however, we have sought liquidity over time and this has now brought our ownership in Seagate to below 5%. With this in mind, we feel that we need to reallocate some of our resources and have therefore elected to reduce our representation on the Seagate board. While Jim will remain on the board and continue to be a link between Silver Lake Partners and Seagate, I will be stepping down to pursue some of our other endeavors.
It has been a pleasure serving on this board with you and I am proud to have been a part of everything this company has achieved over the past six years. I wish you all much continued success in the years to come.
Sincerely,
 


