FILE:STX/STX-8K-20061024162721.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 24, 2006, we issued a press release to report our financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2006. A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this report and the attached press release is "furnished" but not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 October 24, 2006  Seagate Technology (NYSE: STX) today reported revenue of $2.8 billion, GAAP net income of $59 million, and diluted earnings per share of $0.10 for the quarter ended September 29, 2006. Included in the $2.8 billion of revenue is approximately $344 million from legacy Maxtor designed products. Net income and diluted earnings per share includes approximately $82 million of charges directly associated with the Maxtor acquisition. Excluding acquisition related charges and a favorable adjustment to a pre-existing restructuring reserve of $4 million, non-GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share were $137 million and $0.23.
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
In the year-ago quarter, Seagate reported revenue of $2.09 billion, GAAP net income of $272 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.54.
"Seagate delivered another strong performance in the September quarter, reflecting our leadership position in a marketplace characterized by continued healthy growth in demand for storage," said Bill Watkins, Seagate chief executive officer. "I'm pleased that we achieved the results we outlined for the quarter. Our integration of Maxtor continues ahead of schedule, allowing us to complete the customer transition to more cost-effective Seagate products during the December quarter.
"During the quarter, we continued to see an aggressive pricing environment in the notebook and desktop markets, resulting from what we believe are competitors who seem intent on trying to
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal First Quarter 2007 Results
 
capture market share without regard to profitability. I'm pleased, particularly in the face of this environment, with the revenue retention we have achieved, and we are confident in our ability to continue to reduce cost and improve profitability throughout the year. As the leading manufacturer in the disc drive industry, we are operating from a position of strength, from both a cost and product leadership perspective. Moving forward, while we remain committed to pricing discipline, we intend to maintain our current share position, and will manage our pricing strategy accordingly."
Additional information relating to the financial results for the first fiscal quarter of 2007 can be found online at .
http://www.seagate.com/newsinfo/invest
Pricing
The average selling price, on a blended basis, decreased approximately $4.00 from the June quarter. In aggregate, price decreases on a "like for like" product basis during the September quarter were in excess of 6%, which was in line with the company's expectations at the beginning of the quarter.
Business Outlook
For fiscal year 2007, excluding acquisition related costs but including Maxtor's operating results, Seagate now expects $11.4-11.8 billion in revenue and $1.70-1.80 for Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. Including approximately $210 million of expected acquisition related costs and $18 million of fees associated with the early redemption of the 8% notes, GAAP diluted earnings per share would be $1.35-$1.45. The company's adjusted revenue and earnings outlook for fiscal 2007 reflects a pricing environment in the desktop and notebook markets that became more aggressive at the end of the September quarter, thus impacting pricing for subsequent quarters. In the second half of its fiscal year, Seagate will benefit from new products, new market opportunities and the completion of the Maxtor integration.
For the December quarter, Seagate expects to report revenue of $2.8-3.0 billion, and diluted earnings per share of $0.30-0.34, excluding acquisition related costs but including Maxtor's operating results. Included in the company's outlook for the December quarter is an unfavorable impact to gross margin and earnings of approximately $30 million of unplanned costs associated with legacy Maxtor drives. GAAP diluted earnings per share for the December quarter, including
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal First Quarter 2007 Results
 
approximately $60 million of expected acquisition related costs and $18 million of fees associated with the early redemption of the 8% notes, would be $0.17-0.21.
Dividend and Stock Repurchase
The board of directors has approved an increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.08 to $0.10 per share. The company has declared the quarterly dividend to be paid on or before November 17, 2006 to all common shareholders of record as of November 3, 2006.
During the quarter ended September 29, 2006, the company repurchased 6.7 million common shares worth approximately $150 million. The company has approximately $2.35 billion available under the current authorized stock repurchase program.
Conference Call
Seagate will hold a conference call to review the fiscal first quarter results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time today. The conference call can be accessed online at seagate.com or by phone as follows:
USA & Canada: (877) 223-6202
International: (706) 679-3742
Replay
A replay will be available beginning October 24 at 5 p.m. Pacific Time through October 31 at 8:59 p.m. Pacific Time. The replay can be accessed from www.seagate.com/newsinfo/invest or by phone as follows:
USA: (800) 642-1687
International: (706) 645-9291
Conference ID: 8247413
For more information please visit:
http://www.seagate.com/newsinfo/invest/financial_info
A podcast featuring Bill Watkins discussing Seagate's performance during the quarter and the outlook going forward can be heard and downloaded from beginning at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time.
http://www.podtech.net/seagate
About Seagate
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of hard disc drives, providing products for a wide-range of applications, including Enterprise, Desktop, Mobile Computing, Consumer Electronics and Branded Solutions. Seagate's business model leverages technology leadership and world-class manufacturing to deliver industry-leading innovation and quality to its global customers, and to be the low cost producer in all markets in which it
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal First Quarter 2007 Results
 
participates. The company is committed to providing award-winning products, customer support and reliability to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at .
www.seagate.com
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the company's future financial performance, including expected revenue and earnings, price and product competition, customer demand for our products, and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this press release. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the company's control. In particular, such risks and uncertainties include the impact of the acquisition of Maxtor on the company's financial results, including without limitation due to charges associated with restructuring, purchase accounting and other related transaction costs, and due to shifting of customer demand to the company's competitors or aggressive competitive pricing specially targeted to encourage such shifting; the impact of the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disc drives, particularly in the near term as that may be impacted by delays in new operating system software and new gaming platform hardware systems; dependence on the company's ability to successfully manufacture in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality its current and new disc drive products; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disc drive products, particularly now that there are no material limitations on disc drive component supply for our competitors; and the possibility that the combination of Seagate and Maxtor will not provide the anticipated benefits to the combined company on the projected timeline, if at all. Information concerning additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on September 11, 2006. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal First Quarter 2007 Results
 
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal First Quarter 2007 Results
 
 
The non-GAAP financial measures provided herein exclude the impact of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
We believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors because they provide an alternative method for measuring the operating performance of the Company's business and for enhancing comparability to prior periods, excluding the impact of the factors identified above. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal First Quarter 2007 Results
 
Footnotes
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal First Quarter 2007 Results
 
 
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal First Quarter 2007 Results
 
 
 


