FILE:STX/STX-8K-20060503152309.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.05. Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics.
On April 27, 2006, the Board of Directors of Seagate Technology (the "Company") amended the Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code") applicable to directors, officers and employees of the Company. The amendments (1) add a new section entitled "Disclosure" addressing the Company's commitment to, and expectations of its employees regarding timely and complete public disclosures, (2) add a new section entitled "Communication with the Financial Community, the Media or Other Outside Organizations or Individuals" that provides guidelines for employees relating to communication with the outside financial community, the media or other outside organizations and individuals, (3) provide information regarding the Company's Ethics Helpline, and (4) make certain other, non-material changes to the Code.
The foregoing is only a summary of the amendments to the Code, and is qualified by reference to the Code, as amended. The Code, as amended (which is attached as Exhibit 14.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein) may be found on our internet website at under the Investor Relations/Corporate Governance section.
www.seagate.com
Item 9.01.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 14.1
Introduction
Seagate Technology (the "Company") is committed to conducting its business with honesty and integrity. The policies outlined in this Code are designed to ensure that the Company's employees and officers ("employees") and members of its board of directors ("directors") act in accordance with not only the letter but also the spirit of the laws and regulations that apply to our business. Employees and directors who violate this Code will be subject to disciplinary action.
Employees and directors are expected to read the policies set forth in this Code and ensure that they understand and comply with them. Any questions about the Code or the appropriate course of conduct in a particular situation should be directed to the Company's General Counsel. Any violations of laws, rules, regulations or this Code should be reported immediately, by following the procedures for reporting violations, included in this Code, below. The Company will not allow retaliation against an employee or director for such a report made in good faith.
Any waiver of the provisions of this Code for executive officers or directors of the Company may be made only by the board of directors or a committee of the board and must be promptly disclosed to shareholders.
Responsibilities
1.
Compliance With Laws, Rules and Regulations.
All employees and directors must respect and obey all laws that apply to our business, including state and local laws in the areas in which the Company operates. Any questions as to the applicability of any law should be directed to the Company's General Counsel.
If a law conflicts with a policy in this Code, employees and directors must comply with the law. If a local custom or policy conflicts with a policy in the Code, employees and directors must comply with the Code.
2.
Insider Trading.
The Company has a securities trading policy and all employees and directors must abide by its terms. This policy, among other things, provides that employees and directors may not buy or sell shares of the Company's stock when they are in possession of material, non-public information. They also are prohibited from passing on such information to others who might make an investment decision based on it.
Employees and directors also may not trade in stocks of other companies about which they learn material, non-public information through the course of their employment or service with the Company. Any questions as to whether information is material or has been adequately disclosed should be directed to the Company's General Counsel.
3.
Conflicts of Interest and Ethical Conduct.
Each employee and director owes a duty to the Company to act with integrity. Integrity requires, among other things, being honest and ethical. This includes the ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest between personal and professional relationships. A conflict of interest occurs when the private interest of an employee or director interferes  or appears to interfere  in any way with the interests of the Company. Conflicts of interest can occur when an employee or director takes action or has interests that could reasonably be expected to make it difficult to make objective decisions on behalf of the Company or to perform his or her duties effectively. Conflicts of interest also arise when an employee or director, or a member of his or her family, receives improper personal benefits as a result of his or her position with the Company. An employee or director will not be deemed to have a conflict of interest solely on the basis of his service on the board of directors of a company that is under common ownership, or has a business relationship, with the Company.
Conflicts of interests are prohibited as a matter of corporate policy. Any employee or director who becomes aware of a conflict or potential conflict, or who has a question about whether a conflict exists, should bring it to the attention of the Company's General Counsel or the Company's Chief Executive Officer.
4.
Corporate Opportunities.
Employees and directors are prohibited from taking for themselves personally any opportunities that arise through the use of corporate property, information or position and from using corporate property, information or position for personal gain. Employees and directors are further prohibited from competing with the Company directly or indirectly. Employees and directors owe a duty to the Company to advance its legitimate interests when the opportunity to do so arises.
5.
Confidentiality.
Employees and directors may learn information about the Company that is not known to the general public or to competitors. Confidential information includes all non-public information that might be of use to competitors, or harmful to the Company or its customers if disclosed, or information that associates of the Company have entrusted to it.
 
Employees and directors must maintain the confidentiality of information entrusted to them by the Company or its associates, except when disclosure is authorized or legally mandated. The obligation to protect confidential information does not end when an employee or director leaves the Company. Any questions about whether information is confidential should be directed to the Company's General Counsel.
6.
Fair Dealing.
Each employee and director shall endeavor to deal fairly with the Company's shareholders, competitors, customers, suppliers and employees. No employee or director shall take unfair advantage of anyone through manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts, or any other unfair practice.
7.
Protection and Proper Use of Company Assets.
Theft, carelessness and waste have a direct impact on the Company's profitability. Employees and directors have a duty to safeguard Company assets and ensure their efficient use. Company assets should be used only for legitimate business purposes and employees and directors should take measures to ensure against their theft, damage, or misuse.
Company assets include intellectual property such as trademarks, business and marketing plans, salary information and any unpublished financial data and reports. Unauthorized use or distribution of this information is a violation of Company policy.
8. .
Disclosure
As a public company it is of critical importance that the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and other government agencies be accurate and timely. Depending on their position with the Company, employees and directors may be called upon to provide information to ensure that the Company's public reports are complete, fair, and understandable. The Company expects all of its employees and directors to take this responsibility very seriously, and to provide information that is accurate, complete, objective, relevant, timely and understandable to ensure full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in reports and documents that the Company files with, or submits to the SEC, government agencies and in other public communications.
Each employee and director, to the extent involved in the Company's disclosure process, including without limitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other senior employees in the finance organization, must familiarize himself or herself with the disclosure requirements applicable to the Company as well as the business and financial operations of the Company, and must
 
not knowingly misrepresent, or cause others to misrepresent, facts about the Company to others, whether within or outside the Company, including to the Company's independent auditors, governmental regulators and self-regulatory organizations.
9.
Communication with the Financial Community, the Media, or Other Outside Organizations or Individuals.
Any employee or director who is contacted by a member of the financial community, the press or any other outside organization or individual is not to provide information regarding the Company or any subsidiary's business without prior approval. This includes, among other things, answers to questions on overall business trends, business in our different geographies, product bookings or shipments, lead times, pricing, suppliers, new products or technologies, or lawsuits or intellectual property disputes. If a member of the financial community contacts an employee or director, that employee or director must refer the individual to . If a member of the press or other outside organization or individual contacts an employee or director, that employee or director must refer the call to .
Investor Relations
Corporate Communications
10.
Recordkeeping.
All of the Company's books, records, accounts and financial statements must be maintained in reasonable detail, must appropriately reflect the matters to which they relate and must conform both to applicable legal requirements and to the Company's system of internal controls. All assets of the Company must be carefully and properly accounted for. The making of false or misleading records or documentation is strictly prohibited. Unrecorded funds or assets should not be maintained.
The Company complies with all laws and regulations regarding the preservation of records. Records should be retained or destroyed only in accordance with the Company's document retention policies. Any questions about these policies should be directed to the Company's General Counsel.
11.
Interaction With Public Officials.
When dealing with public officials, employees and directors must avoid any activity that is or appears illegal or unethical. The giving of gifts, including meals, entertainment, transportation, and lodging, to government officials in the various branches of U.S. government, as well as state and local governments, is restricted by law. Employees and directors must obtain pre-approval from the Company's General Counsel before providing anything of value to a government official or employee. The foregoing does not apply to personal lawful political contributions.
In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits giving anything of value, directly or indirectly, to officials of foreign governments or foreign political candidates in order to obtain or retain business. Illegal payments to government officials of any country are strictly prohibited.
 
Compliance standards and procedures
No code of business conduct and ethics can replace the thoughtful behavior of an ethical employee or director or provide definitive answers to all questions. Since we cannot anticipate every potential situation, certain policies and procedures have been put in place to help employees and directors approach questions or problems as they arise.
1.
Designated Ethics Officer.
The Company's General Counsel has been designated as the Company's Ethics Officer with responsibility for overseeing and monitoring compliance with the Code. The Ethics Officer reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer and also will make periodic reports to the Company's Audit Committee regarding the implementation and effectiveness of this Code as well as the policies and procedures put in place to ensure compliance with the Code.
2.
Seeking Guidance.
Employees and directors are encouraged to seek guidance from supervisors, managers or other appropriate personnel when in doubt about the best course of action to take in a particular situation. In most instances, questions regarding the Code should be brought to the attention of the Company's General Counsel.
3.
Reporting Violations.
If an employee or director knows of or suspects a violation of this Code, or of applicable laws and regulations, he or she must report it immediately, either to the Company's General Counsel or Chief Executive Officer, or by calling Seagate's Ethics Helpline, which is available 24-hours a day. If the situation requires it, the reporting person's identity will be kept anonymous. The Company does not permit retaliation of any kind for good faith reports of violations or possible violations.
4.
Investigations.
Reported violations will be promptly investigated. It is imperative that the person reporting the violation not conduct an investigation on his or her own. However, employees and directors are expected to cooperate fully with any investigation made by the Company into reported violations.
 
5.
Discipline/Penalties.
Employees and directors who violate this Code may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including discharge. Employees and directors who have knowledge of a violation and fail to move promptly to report or correct it and employees and directors who direct or approve violations may also be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including discharge.
Furthermore, violation of some provisions of this Code are illegal and may subject the employee or director to civil and criminal liability.
 


