FILE:STX/STX-8K-20060427135349.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On April 27, 2006, Seagate Technology received a decision from the European Commission declaring the acquisition of Maxtor Corporation to be compatible with the common market. The Company is continuing ongoing regulatory review processes in other countries with respect to the transaction. The Company expects that to the extent necessary to close the transaction, absent any requests for additional information in those jurisdictions, these processes will be completed prior to, or around the date of, the scheduled May 17, 2006 shareholder meetings.
Seagate and Maxtor are preparing for the closing of this transaction on or about May 19, 2006, contingent upon receipt of shareholder approvals at the May 17, 2006 special meetings, successful completion of the necessary regulatory reviews and the satisfaction of all other conditions to closing.
SAFE HARBOR
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the anticipated closing date for Seagate's acquisition of Maxtor. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K and include the risk that regulatory and shareholder approvals of Seagate and Maxtor shareholders are not obtained in the contemplated timeframes, or at all. Information concerning additional risks and uncertainties related to Seagate's acquisition of Maxtor is contained in Seagate's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC on February 3, 2006 and in Seagate's Registration Statement on Form S-4 as filed with the SEC on March 14, 2006 and amended on April 13, 2006. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
This communication is being made in respect of the proposed transaction involving Seagate and Maxtor. In connection with the proposed transaction, Seagate filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 containing a Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus, which was mailed to stockholders of Seagate and Maxtor.
INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION.
Investors and security holders can obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by Seagate and Maxtor through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and security holders can obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC from Seagate by directing a request to Seagate Technology, 920 Disc Drive, P.O. Box 66360, Scotts Valley, California 95067, Attention: Investor Relations (telephone: (831) 439-5337) or going to Seagate's corporate website at www.Seagate.com, or from Maxtor by directing a request to Maxtor Corporation, 500 McCarthy Boulevard, Milpitas, California 95035, Attention: VP of Investor Relations (telephone: 408-894-5000) or going to Maxtor's corporate website at www.Maxtor.com.
Seagate and Maxtor, and their respective directors and executive officers, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding Seagate's directors and executive officers is contained in Seagate's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 1, 2005, its proxy statement dated October 7, 2005 and its Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 22, 2005, which are filed with the SEC. Information regarding Maxtor's directors and executive officers is contained in Maxtor's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and in its definitive proxy statement dated April 14, 2006, which are filed with the SEC. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants are included in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


