FILE:STX/STX-8K-20060125140226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
A preliminary prospectus supplement, dated January 24, 2006, to the prospectus contained in our Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-122149), contained an updated description of certain risks related to the acquisition of Maxtor Corporation by Seagate (the "Maxtor Merger Risk Factors"). We are filing the Maxtor Merger Risk Factors as Exhibit 99.1 hereto for the purpose of updating the risk factor disclosure contained in our public filings.
 
In addition, the preliminary prospectus supplement disclosed that a purported class action suit had been filed against Maxtor and its directors alleging self-dealing and breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the proposed sale of Maxtor to Seagate, and that the action was seeking equitable relief, including an injunction against Seagate's acquisition of Maxtor as well as the creation of a constructive trust to benefit the plaintiffs. The preliminary prospectus supplement also described that Maxtor was filing a Current Report on Form 8-K describing certain litigation related to the Merger. Item 8.01 of the Maxtor Corporation Current Report on Form 8-K, filed today states:
 
"On January 20, 2006, Theodore F. Vahl (the "Plaintiff") commenced a purported shareholder class action lawsuit in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara, against Maxtor Corporation (the Company"), the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and certain members of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Complaint"). The Complaint alleges that the defendants violated their fiduciary duties in connection with the proposed merger of the Company with Seagate Technology. A copy of the Complaint is attached hereto as an exhibit.
 
The Company believes that the lawsuit is without merit and intends to vigorously defend it. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of the action or the length of time it will take to resolve the action.
 
The Company does not intend to file further current reports on Form 8-K describing additional lawsuits, if any, purporting class action status, in either federal or state court, which are based on allegations substantially similar to those contained in the complaint described herein."
 
IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
 
This communication is being made in respect of the proposed transaction involving Seagate and Maxtor. In connection with the proposed transaction, Seagate plans to file with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 containing a Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and each of Seagate and Maxtor plan to file with the SEC other documents regarding the proposed transaction. The definitive Joint Proxy Statement / Prospectus will be mailed to stockholders of Seagate and Maxtor.
INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION.
 
Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (when available) and other documents filed with the SEC by Seagate and Maxtor through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (when available) and other documents filed with the SEC from Seagate by directing a request to Seagate Technology, 920 Disc Drive, P.O. Box 66360, Scotts Valley, California 95067, Attention: Investor Relations (telephone: (831) 439-5337) or going to Seagate's corporate website at www.Seagate.com, or from Maxtor by directing a request to Maxtor Corporation, 500 McCarthy Boulevard, Milpitas, California 95035, Attention: VP of Investor Relations (telephone: 408-894-5000) or going to Maxtor's corporate website at www.Maxtor.com.
 
Seagate and Maxtor, and their respective directors and executive officers, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding Seagate's directors and executive officers is contained in Seagate's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 1, 2005 and its proxy statement dated October 7, 2005, which are filed with the SEC. Information regarding Maxtor's directors and executive officers is contained in Maxtor's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2004 and its proxy statement dated April 11, 2005, supplemental proxy statement dated May 10, 2005 and Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 24, 2005, which are filed with the SEC. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants will be included in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC (when available).
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
On December 20, 2005, Seagate Technology ("Seagate"), an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the Cayman Islands, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Maxtor Corporation ("Maxtor"), a Delaware corporation, and MD Merger Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Seagate, by which Seagate has agreed to acquire Maxtor (the "Merger"). Set forth below is a description of certain risks related to the Merger.
 
Risks Related to our Pending Acquisition of Maxtor Corporation
 
The failure to successfully integrate Maxtor's business and operations in the expected time frame may adversely affect the combined company's future results.
 
Seagate believes that the acquisition of Maxtor will result in certain benefits, including certain cost synergies, drive product innovations, and operational efficiencies. However, to realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses of Seagate and Maxtor must be successfully combined. The success of the Merger will depend on the combined company's ability to realize these anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of Seagate and Maxtor. The combined company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger for a variety of reasons, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to legal restrictions, Seagate and Maxtor have conducted, and until the completion of the Merger will conduct, only limited planning regarding the integration of the two companies following the Merger and will not determine the exact nature in which the two companies will be combined until after the Merger has been completed. Completion of the Merger is subject to satisfaction of a number of conditions, including the receipt of certain regulatory approvals for which the timing cannot be predicted. The expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods, and any extension of the waiting periods, under the HartScottRodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and approval by the European Commission under EC merger regulations may take considerable time. Specifically, it would not be unusual for a transaction such as the Merger to receive increased antitrust scrutiny and for the relevant regulators to issue requests for additional information and documentary material relevant to the proposed acquisition, generally referred to as "Second Requests". Responding to a Second Request is usually time-consuming and expensive. The actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses or delays. If the combined company is not able to successfully integrate Maxtor's business and operations, or if there are delays in combining the businesses, the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.
 
The integration of Seagate and Maxtor may result in significant accounting charges that adversely affect the announced results of the combined company.
 
The financial results of the combined company may be adversely affected by cash expenses and non-cash accounting charges incurred in connection with the combination. These expenses have been preliminarily estimated to be approximately $500 million and include compensation expense and the cash costs of terminating certain leases. In addition to the anticipated cash charges, significant non-cash restructuring charges and costs associated with the amortization of intangible assets are expected. Seagate and Maxtor have not yet prepared pro forma financial statements that reflect the effects of the Merger and, accordingly, the amount and timing of these possible charges are not yet known. The price of the combined company's common stock could decline to the extent the combined company's financial results are materially affected by the foregoing charges or if the foregoing charges are larger than anticipated.
 
If Maxtor fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, it may not be able to accurately report its financial results which could affect the quality of its pro forma financial statements that reflect the effects of the Merger.
 
In its Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended October 1, 2005, Maxtor reported that material weaknesses had previously been identified in its internal controls over financial reporting as disclosed in its annual report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 27, 2003 filed on February 22, 2005 and subsequent periodic filings. Specifically, material weaknesses were identified with respect to its financial statement close process, including its review of complex, non-routine transactions. These material weaknesses contributed to post-closing adjustments and the resulting need to amend its financial statements. Its amendment of previously released financial statements could diminish public confidence in the reliability of its financial statements, which could harm its business. In addition, Maxtor has had three chief executive officers and five chief financial officers since the beginning of 2003. Maxtor stated that it could not assure investors that it will not in the future identify further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its internal controls over financial reporting. Maxtor indicated that it has taken steps to remediate the material weaknesses in its system of internal controls over financial reporting, but it has not completed its remediation effort and there can be no assurance that it will completely remediate its material weaknesses such that it will be able to conclude that its internal controls over financial reporting are effective. We will use Maxtor's historical financial statements in the preparation of pro forma financial statements that reflect the effects of the Merger and therefore the quality of such pro forma financial statements will depend, in part, upon the accuracy of Maxtor's historical financial statements.
The announcement and pendency of the Merger could cause disruptions in the businesses of Seagate and Maxtor, which could have an adverse effect on their respective business and financial results, and consequently on the combined company.
 
Seagate and Maxtor have operated and, until the completion of the Merger, will continue to operate independently. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees, customers, distributors and suppliers may have an adverse effect on Seagate and Maxtor and consequently on the combined company. These uncertainties may impair Seagate's and Maxtor's ability to retain and motivate key personnel and could cause customers, distributors, suppliers and others with whom each company deals to seek to change existing business relationships which may materially and adversely affect their respective businesses. Due to the materiality standards agreed to by the parties in the Merger Agreement, Seagate and Maxtor may be obligated to consummate the Merger in spite of the adverse effects resulting from the disruption of Seagate's and Maxtor's ongoing businesses. Furthermore, this disruption could adversely affect the combined company's ability to maintain relationships with customers, distributors, suppliers and employees after the Merger or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger. Moreover, integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of Seagate and Maxtor. Each of these events could adversely affect Maxtor in the near term and the combined company, if the Merger is completed.
 
The required regulatory approvals may not be obtained or may contain materially burdensome conditions.
 
Completion of the Merger is conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental approvals, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods, and any extension of the waiting periods, under the HartScottRodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and approval by the European Commission under EC merger regulations. The initial filings with the Federal Trade Commission were made on January 13, 2006. Although Seagate and Maxtor have agreed in the Merger Agreement to use their best efforts to obtain the requisite governmental approvals, there can be no assurance that these approvals will be obtained. In addition, the governmental entities from which these approvals are required may impose conditions on the completion of the Merger or require changes to the terms of the Merger. While Seagate and Maxtor do not currently expect that any such conditions or changes would be imposed, there can be no assurance that they will not be, and such conditions or changes could have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the Merger or reducing the anticipated benefits of the Merger. If Seagate agrees to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the Merger, the business and results of operations of the combined company may be adversely affected.
 
Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact the stock prices and the future business and financial results of Seagate.
 
If the Merger is not completed, the ongoing business of Seagate may be adversely affected and Seagate will be subject to a number of risks, including the following:
 
 
 
 
in each case, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the Merger. If the Merger is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect Seagate's business, financial results and stock price.
Because the market price of Seagate common stock will fluctuate, the value of the Seagate common shares that will be issued in the Merger will not be known until the closing of the Merger.
 
The value of the Seagate common shares to be issued in the Merger could be considerably higher or lower than they were at the time the Merger consideration was negotiated. Neither Seagate nor Maxtor is permitted to terminate the Merger Agreement or resolicit the vote of Maxtor stockholders solely because of changes in the market prices of either company's stock. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, including changes in the respective businesses operations and prospects of Seagate and Maxtor, changes in general market and economic conditions, and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond the control of Seagate or Maxtor.
 
Upon the completion of the Merger, each share of Maxtor common stock outstanding immediately prior to the Merger will be converted into the right to receive 0.37 Seagate common shares. Because the exchange ratio for Seagate common shares to be issued in the Merger has been fixed, the value of the Merger consideration will depend upon the market price of Seagate common shares. This market price may vary from the closing price of Seagate common shares on the date the Merger was announced, on the date that the joint proxy statement/prospectus is mailed to Maxtor and Seagate stockholders and on the date of the Maxtor and Seagate stockholder meetings at which stockholders will be asked to vote on certain matters relating to the Merger. Accordingly, at the time of the stockholder meetings, stockholders will not know or be able to calculate the value of the Merger consideration that would be issued upon completion of the Merger. Further, the time period between the stockholder votes taken at the meetings and the completion of the Merger will depend on the status of antitrust clearance that must be obtained prior to the completion of the Merger and the satisfaction or waiver of other conditions to closing, and there is currently no way to predict how long it will take to obtain these approvals or the changes in Seagate's and Maxtor's respective businesses, operations and prospects or in the disc drive industry generally that may occur during this interval.


