FILE:STX/STX-8K-20060531173736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD
On May 31, 2006, Seagate Technology (the "Company") and Maxtor Corporation filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 permitting the resale of Maxtor's 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 and Seagate's common shares issuable upon conversion thereof. This registration statement contained an updated description of the Company's risk factors, including an update of certain risks related to the acquisition of Maxtor Corporation by Seagate Technology in light of the fact that the acquisition has now closed. We are filing the updated risk factors as Exhibit 99.1 hereto for the purpose of updating the risk factor disclosure contained in our public filings.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Seagate. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.
If any of the following risks actually occurs, Seagate's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of Seagate common shares could decline substantially.
The failure to successfully integrate Maxtor's business and operations in the expected time frame, or at all, may adversely affect the combined company's future results.
Seagate believes that the acquisition of Maxtor will result in certain benefits, including certain cost synergies, drive product innovations, and operational efficiencies. However, to realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses of Seagate and Maxtor must be successfully combined. The success of the Merger will depend on the combined company's ability to realize these anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of Seagate and Maxtor. The combined company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger on a timely basis, or at all, for a variety of reasons, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, although we currently plan to transition Maxtor's volume to Seagate products starting in the first three to six months after the closing and expect this transition to be complete within six to nine months after the closing, we cannot assure you that we will be successful with this transition during the contemplated time frames or at all. The integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses or delays. If the combined company is not able to successfully integrate Maxtor's business and operations, the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.
We expect the integration of Seagate and Maxtor will result in revenue attrition, significant accounting charges and increased capital expenditures that will have an adverse effect on the results and financial condition of the combined company.
The financial results of the combined company may be adversely affected by cash expenditures and non-cash charges incurred in connection with the combination. The cash expenditures have been preliminarily estimated to be approximately $500 million and include restructuring and integration activities and retention bonuses. In addition to the anticipated cash expenditures, we expect significant non-cash charges, including those associated with the amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation, which we currently estimate
at approximately $370 million (approximately $300 million of which is expected to be incurred in the first year following the closing). We anticipate that the majority of these cash expenditures and non-cash charges will occur in the 12 months following the closing of the merger. The actual amount of the stock-based compensation charge will depend on the price of the Seagate common shares and the number of Maxtor options and restricted stock units outstanding as of the closing date, but we estimate that this charge would be approximately $29 million for the first 12 months after the closing and an aggregate of $46 million over the following two years. However, the timing of the compensation charge may be significantly affected by the effect of employee terminations as a result of restructuring activities. A substantial portion of the cash expenditures relating to restructuring activities will be recorded as liabilities assumed from Maxtor and will increase goodwill, while the non-cash charges will reduce earnings of the combined enterprise. In addition, the combined company is likely to incur revenue attrition. We also anticipate approximately $580 million of incremental capital expenditures as we combine operations in the first 18 to 24 months after the closing. As a result of the revenue attrition, capital expenditures and charges described above, the operating results and financial condition of the combined company may be adversely affected by the merger, particularly in the first year following the closing which occurred on May 19, 2006.
CompetitionOur industry is highly competitive and our products have experienced significant price erosion and market share variability.
Even during periods when demand is stable, the disc drive industry is intensely competitive and vendors typically experience substantial price erosion over the life of a product. Our competitors have historically offered existing products at lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers, and we expect these practices to continue. We may need to reduce our prices to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Based on our recent experience in the industry with respect to new product introductions, we believe that the rate of growth in areal density, or the storage capacity per square inch on a disc, is slowing from its previous levels. This trend may contribute to increased average price erosion. To the extent that historical price erosion patterns continue, product life cycles may lengthen, our competitors may have more time to enter the market for a particular product and we may be unable to offset these factors with new product introductions at higher average prices. A second trend that may contribute to increased average price erosion is the growth of sales to distributors that serve producers of non-branded products in the personal storage sector. These customers generally have limited product qualification programs, which increase the number of competing products available to satisfy their demand. As a result, purchasing decisions for these customers are based largely on price and terms. Any increase in our average price erosion would have an adverse effect on our result of operations.
Moreover, a significant portion of our success in the past has been a result of increasing our market share at the expense of our competitors. Our market share for our products can be negatively affected by our customers' diversifying their sources of supply as the slowing rate of growth in a real density has resulted in longer product cycles and more time for our competitors to enter the market for particular products. When our competitors successfully introduce product offerings, which are competitive with our recently introduced new products, our customers may quickly diversify their sources of supply. We may also be subject to competitive pressures as a result of our recent acquisition of Maxtor, including aggressive pricing by our competitors. Any significant decline in our market share would adversely affect our results of operations.
Principal CompetitorsWe compete with both independent manufacturers, whose primary focus is producing technologically advanced disc drives, and captive manufacturers, who do not depend solely on sales of disc drives to maintain their profitability.
We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, including other independent disc drive manufacturers and large captive manufacturers such as:
 
The term "independent" in this context refers to manufacturers that primarily produce disc drives as a stand-alone product, and the term "captive" refers to disc drive manufacturers who themselves or through affiliated entities produce complete computer or other systems that contain disc drives or other information storage products. Captive manufacturers are formidable competitors because they have the ability to determine pricing for complete systems without regard to the margins on individual components. Because components other than disc drives generally contribute a greater portion of the operating margin on a complete computer system than do disc drives, captive manufacturers do not necessarily need to realize a profit on the disc drives included in a computer system and, as a result, may be willing to sell disc drives to third parties at very low margins. Many captive manufacturers are also formidable competitors because they have more substantial resources than we do. In addition, Hitachi Global Storage Technologies (together with affiliated entities) and Samsung Electronics Incorporated also sell other products to our customers, including critical components like flash memory, application-specific integrated circuits, or ASICs and flat panel displays, and may be willing to sell their disc drives at a lower margin to advance their overall business strategy. This may improve their ability to compete with us. To the extent we are not successful competing with captive or independent disc drive manufacturers, our results of operations will be adversely affected.
In addition, in response to customer demand for high-quality, high-volume and low-cost disc drives, manufacturers of disc drives have had to develop large, in some cases global, production facilities with highly developed technological capabilities and internal controls. The development of large production facilities and industry consolidation can contribute to the intensification of competition. We also face indirect competition from present and potential customers who evaluate from time to time whether to manufacture their own disc drives or other information storage products.
We have also started to experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increased capacity and lower cost of these technologies have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disc drives.
Volatility of Quarterly ResultsOur quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause our shares price to decline.
In the past, our quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuated significantly from period to period. We expect this fluctuation to continue for a variety of reasons, including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common shares.
New Product OfferingsMarket acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated.
We are continually developing new products in the hope that we will be able to introduce technologically advanced disc drives into the marketplace ahead of our competitors.
The success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. Accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results of operations.
In addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our OEM customers. In order for our products to be considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. Once a product is accepted for qualification testing, any failure or delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. The limited number of high-volume OEMs magnifies the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity. These risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales and declining gross margins on our current generation products. We cannot assure you that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future.
Smaller Form Factor Disc DrivesIf we do not continue to successfully market smaller form factor disc drives, our business may suffer.
The disc drive industry is experiencing significant increases in sales of smaller form factor disc drives for an expanding number of applications, in particular notebook computers and consumer electronics devices, but also including personal computers and enterprise storage applications. Many of these applications have typically used disc drives with a 3.5-inch form factor, which we currently manufacture. Some of these applications, such as consumer electronics applications like digital music players and digital cameras, represent fast growing markets for disc drives. We initiated volume shipments of our first small form factor disc drive, the Momentus notebook disc drive, to a number of OEMs in the second quarter of fiscal year 2004. In June 2004, we announced our first 1-inch form factor disc drive, additional capacity models of our Momentus notebook disc drive and a 2.5-inch form factor disc drive for enterprise storage applications. Since then, we have introduced higher-capacity versions of our 1-inch and 2.5-inch disc drives for the mobile computing and consumer electronics markets.
We have also started to experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increased capacity and lower cost of these technologies have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disc drives.
If we do not suitably adapt our product offerings to successfully introduce additional smaller form factor disc drives, customers may decrease the amounts of our products that they purchase which would adversely affect our results of operations.
Perpendicular Recording TechnologyIf our customers decide not to accept this new technology until either more disc drive manufacturers are providing it in their products, or there is more performance history for this new technology, our operating results will be adversely impacted.
To address the growing demand for higher capacity products, we have begun a transition to perpendicular recording technology to achieve continued growth in areal density. To date, we have announced perpendicular technology based products for the desktop, enterprise, notebook, and handheld markets.
Perpendicular recording technology poses various technological challenges including a complex integration of the recording head, the disc, recording channel, drive software and firmware as a system. To the extent that our customers decide not to accept this new technology until either more disc drive manufacturers are providing it in their products, or there is more performance history for this new technology, our operating results will be adversely impacted. This risk could be enhanced to the extent that these initial perpendicular technology based products experience any unanticipated or atypical reliability or operability problems.
In addition, if these perpendicular technology based products suffer unanticipated or atypical failures that were not anticipated in the design of those products, our service and warranty costs may materially increase adversely impacting our operating results.
SeasonalityBecause we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted during our fourth fiscal quarter.
Because sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, we expect to continue to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for disc drives. In particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during our fourth fiscal quarter than the rest of the year. In the desktop computer, notebook computer and consumer electronics sectors of our business, this seasonality is partially attributable to our customers' increased sales of personal computers and consumer electronics during the winter holiday season. In the enterprise sector of our business, our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. Because our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our operating results will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate.
Furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because our overall growth may have reduced the impact of this seasonality in recent periods. For example, because of dramatic rates of growth exhibited by the consumer electronics applications in the March and June 2005 quarters followed by a period of component constraints during the September and December 2005 quarters which impacted our production capacity, we did not experience either a traditional seasonal decrease in sales of our products in the third and fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005 or a comparative seasonal increase in sales of our products in the first half of fiscal year 2006. The lack of seasonality in calendar year 2005 was atypical in the disc drive industry as evidenced by the modest seasonal decline we experienced in the March 2006 quarter, particularly with respect to drives for desktop applications, which is expected to continue in a more traditional pattern in the June 2006 quarter. Given the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions in the consumer electronics market, we may experience significant variability in unit demand in future periods, which may be exacerbated by the highly seasonal nature of consumer electronics products generally.
Difficulty in Predicting Quarterly DemandIf we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be able to recapture the cost of our investments.
The disc drive industry operates on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter coming at the end of that quarter. Our manufacturing process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for that quarter's production. Because we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have become obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future.
Other factors that may negatively impact our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dependence on Supply of Equipment and ComponentsIf we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of critical equipment or components necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects.
The cost, quality and availability of components, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture disc drives and key components like media and heads are critical to our success. The equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. Particularly important components for disc drives include read/write heads, recording media, ASICs, spindle motors, printed circuit boards and suspension assemblies. We rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of these components, including recording media that we do not manufacture, ASICs, spindle motors, printed circuit boards and suspension assemblies. In the past, we have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some components and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials, such as precious metals, that were in short supply in the industry in general.
In addition, the recent increases in demand for small form factor mobile products have led to shortages in the components used in smaller form factor disc drives such as the glass substrates used to make the recording media for such drives. Increasing unit growth for 3.5-inch disc drives could also lead to constraints for the supply of aluminum media and substrates.
Historically, the technology sector specifically, and the economy generally have experienced economic pressure, which has resulted in consolidation among component manufacturers and may result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research to develop new components.
If there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then:
 
 
 
 
We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner, or at all.
Importance of Reducing Operating CostsIf we do not reduce our operating expenses, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry.
Our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time reducing operating expenses. In this regard, we have engaged in ongoing, company-wide manufacturing efficiency activities intended to increase productivity and reduce costs. These activities have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions and efforts to increase automation. For example, in our fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004, we undertook significant restructuring activities to reduce the costs of our operations and we continue to look at opportunities for further cost reductions, which may result in additional restructuring activities in the future. We cannot assure you that our efforts will result in the increased profitability, cost savings or other benefits that we expect. Moreover, the reduction of personnel and closure of facilities may adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in required volumes to meet customer demand and may result in other disruptions that affect our products and customer service. In addition, the transfer of manufacturing capacity of a product to a different facility frequently requires qualification of the new facility by some of our OEM customers. We cannot assure you that these activities and transfers will be implemented on a cost-effective basis without delays or disruption in our production and without adversely affecting our customer relationships and results of operations.
Industry DemandChanges in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems has caused and may cause in the future a decline in demand for our products.
Our disc drives are components in computers, computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics devices. The demand for these products has been volatile. In a weak economy, consumer spending
tends to decline and retail demand for personal computers and consumer electronics devices tends to decrease, as does enterprise demand for computer systems and storage subsystems. During economic slowdowns such as the one that began in 2000, demand for disc drives, particularly in the enterprise sector was adversely impacted as a result of the weakened economy and because enterprises shifted their focus from making new equipment purchases to more efficiently using their existing information technology infrastructure through, among other things, adopting new storage architectures. Unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems generally cause sharp declines in demand for disc drive products.
Additional causes of declines in demand for our products in the past have included announcements or introductions of major operating system or semiconductor improvements or changes in consumer preferences, such as the shift from desktop to notebook computers. We believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and made inventory obsolete. Whenever an oversupply of disc drives causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense price competition from other disc drive manufacturers than usual.
Dependence on DistributorsWe are dependent on sales to distributors, which may increase price erosion and the volatility of our sales.
A substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of desktop disc drive products. Product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. As a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. Sales volumes through this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our OEM customers. In the second half of fiscal year 2004, a number of disc drive manufacturers independently launched initiatives to improve the stability of the distribution channel, particularly with respect to the purchasing behavior of these distributors while other disc drive manufacturers have not launched such initiatives. These actions have further increased the uncertainty as to demand within this market segment. To the extent that distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in the distribution channel, our results of operations would be adversely affected.
Longer Product Life CyclesLengthening of product life cycles can make planning product transitions difficult and may reduce the favorable impact of new product transitions.
In contrast to historical trends, based on our recent experience in the industry with respect to new product introductions, we believe that the current rate of growth in areal density is slowing from the rate of the last several years. We believe that this slowdown in the rate of growth in areal density will continue until a significant advance in technology for the electronic storage of data, such as perpendicular recording technology, becomes commercially available.
When the rate of growth in areal density slows, it may contribute to increased average price erosion to the extent historical price erosion patterns continue, a limitation in our ability to introduce new products at higher prices and lengthened product life cycles which permits competitors more time to enter the market for a particular type of disc drive. In addition, the lengthening of product life cycles can make planning product transitions more difficult. To the extent that we prematurely discontinue a product, or do not timely introduce new products, our operating results may be adversely affected.
Because the rate of growth in areal density is slowing, the favorable impact of new product introductions on our results of operations may be minimized. Historically, the introduction of new products generally has had a favorable impact on our results of operations both because the new products are introduced at higher prices than existing competitive offerings and because advances in areal density technology have enabled lower manufacturing costs through a reduction in components such as read/write heads and discs. However, in contrast to when the rate of growth in areal density is increasing, a slowing rate of growth in areal density can limit the cost benefits of new products because it is technologically more difficult to reduce the number of read/write
heads and discs in a particular drive. In addition, given the environment of intense price competition, in the absence of significant capacity or reliability increases, it is difficult to obtain higher prices for new products.
Importance of Time-to-MarketOur operating results may depend on our being among the first-to-market and achieving sufficient production volume with our new products.
To achieve consistent success with our OEM customers, it is important that we be an early provider of new types of disc drives featuring leading, high-quality technology. Historically, our operating results have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-market with new product offerings. However, during a period of slowing areal density growth, such as we are in now, the importance of time-to-market may be less critical. Our market share and operating results in the future may be adversely affected, particularly if the rate of growth in areal density resumes its historical pattern, if we fail to:
 
 
 
 
If delivery of our products is delayed, our OEM customers may use our competitors' products to meet their production requirements. If the delay of our products causes delivery of those OEMs' computer systems into which our products are integrated to be delayed, consumers and businesses may purchase comparable products from the OEMs' competitors.
Moreover, we face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new product that has been shipped or announced but not yet released. If this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may have become less efficient and cost effective compared to new products. As a result, even if we are among the first-to-market with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory.
Dependence on Key CustomersWe may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger customers.
Some of our key customers, including Hewlett-Packard, Dell, EMC, IBM and Acer, account for a large portion of our disc drive revenue. We have longstanding relationships with many of our customers, however, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. While sales to major customers may vary from period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. In line with industry practice, new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer's cost. Accordingly, it may be difficult for us to attract new major customers. Additionally, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. If a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
Dependence on Growth in Consumer Electronics ProductsOur recent results have been materially benefited by significant growth in new consumer electronics products, which can experience significant volatility due to seasonal and other factors which could materially adversely impact our future results of operations.
Our recent results have been materially benefited by significant growth in new consumer electronics applications like digital video recorders and digital music players which are experiencing unexpected growth
after the typically high demand holiday season. While this growth has enabled us to offset the traditional seasonal decline experienced in the March and June quarters of fiscal year 2005, the demand for consumer electronics products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for the compute products, which have been our traditional markets. This potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like flash memory, meeting the customers' cost and capacity metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from our products and disc drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. Unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to alternative storage technologies in new consumer electronics applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations.
New Product Development and Technological ChangeIf we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our operating results will be adversely affected.
Our customers have demanded new generations of disc drive products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need for improved storage products with features such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and reliability of smaller form factors. We, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do so in the future. For fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, we had product development expenses of $645 million, $666 million and $670 million, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to successfully market these new products or that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. In addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our ability to be successful.
When we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our operating results may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. If our products suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may increase. In addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us less competitive as compared with other disc drive manufacturers.
Economic Risks Associated with International OperationsOur international operations subject us to risks related to currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries, seasonality and disruptions in foreign markets, tariffs and duties, price controls, potential adverse tax consequences, increased costs, our customers' credit and access to capital and health-related risks.
We have significant operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. We have manufacturing facilities in China, Malaysia, Northern Ireland, Singapore and Thailand, in addition to those in the United States. A substantial portion of our desktop disc drive assembly occurs in our facility in China.
Our international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Political Risks Associated with International OperationsOur international operations subject us to risks related to political unrest and terrorism.
We have manufacturing facilities in parts of the world that periodically experience political unrest. This could disrupt our ability to manufacture important components as well as cause interruptions and/or delays in our ability to ship components to other locations for continued manufacture and assembly. Any such delays or interruptions could result in delays in our ability to fill orders and have an adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. U.S. and international responses to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, the ongoing hostilities in Afghanistan and Iraq and the risk of hostilities elsewhere in the world could exacerbate these risks.
Legal and Operational Risks Associated with International OperationsOur international operations subject us to risks related to staffing and management, legal and regulatory requirements and the protection of intellectual property.
Operating outside of the United States creates difficulties associated with staffing and managing our international manufacturing facilities, complying with local legal and regulatory requirements and protecting our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. We also cannot assure you that these laws will not be modified.
Potential Loss of Licensed TechnologyThe closing of the November 2000 transactions may have triggered change of control or anti-assignment provisions in some of our license agreements, which could result in a loss of our right to use licensed technology.
We have a number of cross-licenses with third parties that enable us to manufacture our products free from any infringement claims that might otherwise be made by these third parties against us. A number of these licenses contain change of control or anti-assignment provisions. We have taken steps to transfer these licenses in connection with the closing of the November 2000 transactions; however, we cannot assure you that these transfers will not be challenged. For example, Papst Licensing GmbH, IBM and Hitachi initially took the position that their license agreements did not transfer to our new business entities. Subsequently, we entered into new license agreements with IBM and Hitachi in December 2001. In September 2002, we settled a broader dispute with Papst that also resolved the claim by Papst that its license agreement was not properly transferred.
We received a letter dated November 19, 2002 from Read-Rite Corporation asserting that we do not currently have a license to its patented technology and that our disc drive products infringe at least two of its patents. We have since received additional letters from Read-Rite Corporation making the same claims. Seagate Technology, Inc. entered into a Patent Cross License Agreement dated December 31, 1994, which covered the two patents referenced in the November 19, 2002 letter, as well as other intellectual property of Read-Rite Corporation. Prior to the November 19, 2002 letter, Read-Rite Corporation had not responded to our efforts to confirm that under the Patent Cross License Agreement we were entitled to a new license agreement in our own name and on materially the same terms as the 1994 agreement. In order to clarify the parties' rights under the Patent Cross License Agreement, we filed a declaratory judgment action on May 7, 2003 in the Superior Court of California, County of Santa Clara, seeking a declaration that we are entitled to a cross-license, effective as of November 22, 2000, under terms substantially identical to those contained in the Patent Cross License Agreement. On June 11, 2003, Read-Rite Corporation answered the complaint putting forward a general denial and asserting various affirmative defenses. On June 17, 2003, Read-Rite Corporation filed a voluntary petition for bankruptcy under Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Upon notice, our declaratory judgment action has been stayed. On July 23, 2003, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court approved Western Digital Corporation's bid to acquire the assets of Read-Rite Corporation, including the intellectual property that was the subject of Read-Rite's dispute with us, in a transaction that closed on July 31, 2003. In the Bankruptcy Court, we objected to the Chapter 7 Trustee's assumption and assignment to Western Digital of the Patent Cross-License Agreement. On November 14, 2003, the Bankruptcy Trustee made a motion, continued from time to time, to assume or reject certain Read-Rite executory contracts, rejecting the Patent Cross-License Agreement. On November 12, 2004, we filed our election to retain the benefits of the Patent Cross-License Agreement to the extent permitted by Section 365(n) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The Chapter 7 Trustee and Western Digital opposed our election to retain the benefits of the license. On March 29, 2005, we reached agreement with the Bankruptcy Trustee, subject to Bankruptcy Court approval, to allow us to retain the benefits of the Patent Cross-License in exchange for us withdrawing our proof of claim against the bankruptcy estate. Western Digital objected to that settlement. On July 7, 2005, the Bankruptcy Trustee filed a motion to approve settlement of all bankruptcy disputes with Western Digital and indicated that he no longer supported the agreement we reached with him. Pursuant to this motion, the Bankruptcy Trustee sought approval to appoint Western Digital as the estate's attorney in fact involving our election to retain the benefits of the Patent Cross-License Agreement. Thereafter, we, the Bankruptcy Trustee, and Western Digital stipulated to the Trustee's withdrawal of his motion to approve the Seagate settlement. At a hearing on July 27, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court approved the Western Digital settlement and set a hearing for September 27, 2005 on our 365(n) election to retain the benefits of the Patent Cross-License Agreement. At the end of the September 27, 2005 hearing, the court requested additional briefing. On December 20, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court rejected our 365(n) election, ruling that we were not entitled to retain the benefits of the Patent Cross-License.
On December 28, 2005, we filed a Notice of Appeal to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. Briefing on the appeal was completed in late April 2006.
To the extent that third party cross-licenses, including the Patent Cross License Agreement dated December 31, 1994 between Read-Rite Corporation and Seagate Technology, Inc., are deemed not to have been properly transferred to us in the November 2000 transactions, our inability to either obtain new licenses or transfer existing licenses could result in delays in product development or prevent us from selling our products until equivalent substitute technology can be identified, licensed and/or integrated or until we are able to substantially engineer our products to avoid infringing the rights of third parties. We might not be able to renegotiate agreements, be able to obtain necessary licenses in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer our products successfully. Moreover, the loss of or inability to extend any of these licenses would increase the risk of infringement claims being made against us, which claims could have a material adverse effect on our business.
Risk of Intellectual Property LitigationOur products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products.
We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Historically, patent applications in the United States and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, and we may not be aware of currently filed patent applications that relate to our products or technology. If patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our licensees in connection with their use of our products. We are currently subject to a suit by Convolve, Inc. and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a suit pending in Nanjing, China. In addition, as noted above, Read-Rite Corporation, in a letter dated November 19, 2002 and in correspondence after that date, asserted that we do not currently have a license to Read-Rite Corporation patented technology and that our disc drive products infringe at least two Read-Rite Corporation patents.
Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management's attention from operating our business. In addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. Moreover, software patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in the field. If we were to discover that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially reengineer our products in order to avoid infringement. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully. Moreover, if we are sued for infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products.
Dependence on Key PersonnelThe loss of some key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects.
Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and product development personnel. The loss of one or more of our key personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. All of the incentive compensation provided to our senior management at the time of the privatization vested as of November 2004. We may not be able to provide our senior management with adequate additional incentives to remain employed by us after this time. We have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future.
System FailuresSystem failures caused by events beyond our control could adversely affect computer equipment and electronic data on which our operations depend.
Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the information stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion and other catastrophic events. As our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. A significant part of our operations is based in an area of California that has experienced power outages and earthquakes and is considered seismically active. We do not have a contingency plan for addressing the kinds of events referred to in this paragraph that would be sufficient to prevent system failures and other interruptions in our operations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
SOX 404 ComplianceWhile we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to future risks of non-compliance and will continue to incur costs associated with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
We have completed the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although our assessment, testing, and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of July 1, 2005, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our financial results or the market price of our shares could be adversely affected. We will incur additional expenses and commitment of management's time in connection with further evaluations.
Ownership of Our Common Shares by Certain Equity Investors In early January 2006, New SAC completed the planned distributions of our common shares to its shareholders. As a result of these distributions, affiliates of Silver Lake Partners, Texas Pacific Group and August Capital own a large number of our common shares. Three of our directors are affiliated with these equity investors and therefore have influence over corporate actions.
Three of our directors are affiliated with Silver Lake Partners and August Capital and therefore have influence over matters such as our business, policies and affairs; and the nomination for election of our directors and other matters submitted to our shareholders. For as long as these directors serve on our board of directors, they may continue to retain influence over us, even now that New SAC has distributed all of its shares in us. These equity investors may decide not to enter into a transaction in which you would receive consideration for your common shares that is much higher than the cost to you or the then-current market price of those shares. In addition, these equity investors could elect to sell a large interest in us and you may receive less than the then-current fair market value or the price you paid for your shares. Any decision regarding their ownership of us that these equity investors may make at some future time will be in their absolute discretion.
Future SalesAdditional sales of our common shares by certain equity investors or our employees or issuances by us in connection with future acquisitions or otherwise could cause the price of our common shares to decline.
If certain equity investors sell a substantial number of our common shares in the future, the market price of our common shares could decline. The perception among investors that these sales may occur could produce the same effect. Such equity investors have rights, subject to specified conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering common shares or to include common shares in registration statements that we may file. Specifically, any of Silver Lake Partners, Texas Pacific Group or August Capital can unilaterally require that we file registration statements covering common shares held by them. By exercising their registration rights and selling a large number of common shares, any of these equity investors could cause the price of our common shares to decline. Furthermore, if they were to include common shares in a registration statement initiated by us,
those additional shares could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our common shares.
New SAC has disposed of all of its shares in us through quarterly and monthly staged distributions to its more than 200 shareholders. In particular, New SAC made quarterly distributions of 25 million of our common shares owned by it to the New SAC shareholders beginning in the spring of 2005 and continuing for the next three quarters thereafter, for a total distribution in this manner of approximately 100 million common shares through January 2006. Absent registration, these distributed shares will be illiquid and not eligible for re-sale in the public markets under Rule 144 until 12 months from the date of their distribution out of New SAC. The first of these quarterly distributed shares became eligible for resale under Rule 144 on May 16, 2006. The equity investors with the power to request registration of these shares have consented to an agreement among themselves not to do so until August 2006.
In addition to the distributions described in the previous paragraph, New SAC distributed approximately 50 million of our common shares by making monthly distributions of approximately 10 million of our common shares to New SAC shareholders from September 2005 through January 2006. Offers to the public by the selling shareholders named in the post-effective amendment to our registration statement on Form S-3 of the approximately 50 million common shares distributed by New SAC on a monthly basis may be made pursuant to the post-effective amendment to our registration statement on Form S-3. Two of the above-mentioned equity investors, Silver Lake Partners and Texas Pacific Group, sold 26,737,880 of our common shares in January 2006. Any additional sales by former New SAC shareholders, their transferees or distributees could cause the market price of our common shares to decline.
One component of our business strategy is to make acquisitions. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could issue additional common shares, which would have the effect of diluting your ownership percentage of the common shares and could cause the price of our common shares to decline. For example, we recently issued approximately 98 million of our common shares in connection with our acquisition of Maxtor Corporation.
Volatile Public MarketsThe price of our common shares may be volatile and could decline significantly.
The stock market in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. If these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our common shares could decline significantly independent of our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. The market price of our common shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Failure to Pay Quarterly DividendsOur failure to pay quarterly dividends to our common shareholders could cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly.
We paid quarterly dividends of $0.08 per share on each of August 19, 2005, November 18, 2005, February 17, 2006 and May 19, 2006 to our common shareholders of record as of August 5, 2005, November 4, 2005, February 3, 2006 and May 5, 2006, respectively.
Our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among other things, general business conditions within the disc drive industry, our financial results, the impact of paying dividends on our credit ratings, and legal and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us or by us to our common shareholders, including restrictions imposed by the covenants contained in the indenture governing our senior notes and the credit agreement governing our senior unsecured revolving line of credit. Any reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly. Our payment of dividends may also result in a conversion rate adjustment under Maxtor's 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012. Moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly dividends is reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying dividends at historical levels could result in a persistently low market valuation of our common shares.
Potential Governmental ActionGovernmental action against companies located in offshore jurisdictions may lead to a reduction in the demand for our common shares.
Recent federal and state legislation has been proposed, and additional legislation may be proposed in the future which, if enacted, could have an adverse tax impact on either Seagate or its shareholders. For example, the eligibility for favorable tax treatment of taxable distributions paid to U.S. shareholders of Seagate as qualified dividends could be eliminated.
Securities LitigationSignificant fluctuations in the market price of our common shares could result in securities class action claims against us.
Significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of disc drive companies and technology companies generally. The price of our common shares is likely to be volatile in the future. In the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company's securities, class action lawsuits have often been pursued against that company. If similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
If Maxtor fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, it could affect the quality of Seagate's financial statements.
In its Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended October 1, 2005, Maxtor reported that material weaknesses had previously been identified in its internal controls over financial reporting as disclosed in its annual report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 27, 2003 filed on February 22, 2005 and subsequent periodic filings. Specifically, material weaknesses were identified with respect to its financial statement close process, including its review of complex, non-routine transactions. These material weaknesses contributed to post-closing adjustments and the resulting need to amend its financial statements. Its amendment of previously released financial statements could diminish public confidence in the reliability of its or Seagate's financial statements, which could harm our business. In addition, Maxtor has had three chief executive officers and five chief financial officers since the beginning of 2003. Maxtor stated that it could not assure investors that it will not in the future identify further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its internal controls over financial reporting. In its Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, Maxtor reported that its internal controls over financial reporting are effective.


