FILE:STX/STX-8K-20060517162116.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
On May 17, 2006, we issued a press release to announce that the shareholders of Seagate Technology (the "Company") and Maxtor Corporation ("Maxtor") have approved a previously announced definitive merger agreement under which Seagate will acquire Maxtor in an all stock transaction. With all required regulatory and shareholder approvals now secured, it is expected that the transaction will close in 2-3 business days and that Maxtor shares will cease to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange at that time. A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Important Additional Information
On December 21, 2005, Seagate announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement with Maxtor Corporation which provides for Seagate to acquire Maxtor in a merger transaction. In connection with the proposed transaction, Seagate filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 with the SEC on March 14, 2006 containing a preliminary Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (SEC File No. 333-132420). This registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on April 14, 2006. On or about April 18, 2006, the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus was mailed to stockholders of Seagate and Maxtor. Each of Seagate and Maxtor have filed, and will continue to file, with the SEC other documents regarding the proposed transaction.
INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION.
Investors and security holders can obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by Seagate and Maxtor through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and security holders are able to obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC from Seagate by directing a request to Seagate Technology, 920 Disc Drive, P.O. Box 66360, Scotts Valley, California 95067, Attention: Investor Relations (telephone: (831) 439-5337) or going to Seagate's corporate website at www.Seagate.com; or from Maxtor by directing a request to Maxtor Corporation, 500 McCarthy Boulevard, Milpitas, California 95035, Attention: VP of Investor Relations (telephone: 408-894-5000) or going to Maxtor's corporate website at www.Maxtor.com.
Seagate and Maxtor, and their respective directors and executive officers, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding Seagate's directors and executive officers is contained in Seagate's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 1, 2005, its proxy statement dated October 7, 2005 and its Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 22, 2005, which were filed with the SEC. Information regarding Maxtor's directors and executive officers is contained in Maxtor's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and its proxy statement dated April 14, 2006, which were filed with the SEC.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 Seagate Technology (NYSE: STX), and Maxtor Corporation (NYSE: MXO) announced today that Seagate shareholders and Maxtor stockholders have approved the previously announced definitive merger agreement under which Seagate will acquire Maxtor in an all stock transaction.
Scotts Valley, CA and Milpitas, CA May 17, 2006
With all required regulatory and shareholder approvals now secured, it is expected that the transaction will close in 2-3 business days and that Maxtor shares will cease to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange before the market opens on Monday, May 22, 2006.
"Seagate has approached this transaction much differently than traditional mergers and acquisitions. This combination will deliver greater scale by leveraging Seagate's successful business model and is not intended to be a traditional integration of product lines or operations," said Bill Watkins, Seagate's President and CEO. "The acquisition of Maxtor will further build on Seagate's foundation as the premier global hard disc drive company and strengthens our ability to drive future growth by providing enhanced operating scale and key resources to fuel product innovation, maximize efficiency and realize significant cost benefits. The scale gained with this acquisition is needed to meet the world's growing demand for sharing and storing digital content. Seagate's continued investment in burgeoning markets like Consumer Electronics and Branded Solutions, as well as our core computing markets, has seen our product set grow from eight to 30 products over the last three years and is now on pace to reach almost 50 products over the next two years. Leveraging increased scale with Seagate's successful product platform strategy, we believe the combined company is best-positioned to deliver to global customers a more compelling, diverse set of products at more competitive prices, to meet the growing demand for storage."
The approvals were obtained at special meeting of Seagate shareholders and an annual meeting of Maxtor stockholders, held by each company earlier today. Under the previously announced terms of the transaction, Maxtor stockholders will receive 0.37 shares of Seagate common stock for each Maxtor share they owned at the closing.
Conference Call Information
Company management plans to hold a conference call to discuss the completion of the acquisition on May 22, 2006, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The conference call can be accessed online at or by telephone as follows:
www.seagate.com
USA: (877) 223-6202
International: (706) 679-3742
Replay
A replay will be available beginning May 22 at 5 p.m. Pacific Time through May 29 at 8:59 p.m. Pacific Time. The replay can be accessed from or by telephone as follows:
www.seagate.com/newsinfo/invest
USA: (800) 642-1687
International: (706) 645-9291
Conference ID: 9162676
About Seagate
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacturing and marketing of hard disc drives, providing products for a wide-range of Enterprise, Desktop, Mobile Computing, and Consumer Electronics applications. Seagate's business model leverages technology leadership and world-class manufacturing to deliver industry-leading innovation and quality to its global customers, and to be the low cost producer in all markets in which it participates. The company is committed to providing award-winning products, customer support and reliability to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at www.seagate.com. Seagate, Seagate Technology and the Wave logo are registered trademarks of Seagate Technology LLC.
About Maxtor
Maxtor Corporation (www.maxtor.com) is one of the world's leading suppliers of information storage solutions. The company has an expansive line of storage products for desktop computers, near-line storage, high-performance Intel-based servers and consumer electronics. Maxtor has a reputation as a proven market leader built by consistently providing high-quality products, and services and support for its customers. Maxtor and its products can be found at www.maxtor.com or by calling toll-free (800) 2-MAXTOR. Maxtor is traded on the NYSE under the MXO symbol.
 


