FILE:STX/STX-8K-20060921165828.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Senior Notes Offering
On September 20, 2006, Seagate Technology (the "Company") and its subsidiary Seagate Technology HDD Holdings ("Seagate HDD") entered into an Indenture (the "Indenture") with U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee thereunder, in connection with the offer and sale of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Seagate HDD's Floating Rate Notes due 2009, $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Seagate HDD's 6.375% Senior Notes due 2011 and $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Seagate HDD's 6.800% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "Offering").
Set forth below is a description of the debt securities (collectively, the "Notes") that have been issued pursuant to the Indenture with the following principal terms:
. The aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due 2009 (the "2009 Notes") that were issued and sold is $300,000,000. These notes will mature on October 1, 2009 and bear interest at a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus 0.84% per annum, payable quarterly on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing January 1, 2007. The 2009 Notes are not redeemable by Seagate HDD.
Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2009
. The aggregate principal amount of 6.375% Senior Notes due 2011 (the "2011 Notes") that were issued and sold is $600,000,000. These notes will mature on October 1, 2011 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.375% per annum, payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing April 1, 2007. The 2011 Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part at any time or from time to time, at Seagate HDD's option, at the applicable "make-whole premium" redemption price described below.
6.375% Senior Notes due 2011
. The aggregate principal amount of 6.800% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "2016 Notes") that were issued and sold is $600,000,000. These notes will mature on October 1, 2016 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.800% per annum, payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing April 1, 2007. The 2016 Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part at any time or from time to time, at Seagate HDD's option, at the applicable "make-whole premium" redemption price described below.
6.800% Senior Notes due 2016
The "make-whole premium" redemption price will be equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon discounted to the date of redemption, on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable Treasury Rate (as defined in the Indenture) plus 50 basis points. Accrued interest will be paid to but excluding the redemption date.
The Notes are unsecured and will rank equally in right of payment with all of Seagate HDD's other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. The Notes will effectively rank junior to all liabilities of the subsidiaries of Seagate HDD.
The Notes will be subject to the covenants in the Indenture, which include limitations on liens, limitations on sale and lease-back transactions and limitations on consolidations, mergers and conveyances, transfers and leases of assets. In addition, upon a change of control that is accompanied or followed by the downgrading of the Notes within a specified period by each of Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Rating Services below the lower of the respective rating in effect (i) immediately preceding the first public announcement of such change of control transaction or (ii) on the
date of the issuance of the Notes, Seagate HDD will be required to make an offer to purchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to (but excluding) the date of purchase.
The Indenture contains customary events of default, including: (a) Seagate HDD's failure to pay principal or premium, if any, on a series of the Notes when due at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise; (b) Seagate HDD's failure to pay any interest on a series of the Notes for 30 days after the interest becomes due; (c) Seagate HDD's failure to comply with the notice provisions in connection with a change in control for 30 calendar days; (d) failure by Seagate HDD, any of its subsidiaries or the Company to perform, or their breach of, any other covenant, agreement or condition in the Indenture in respect of a series of the Notes for 90 days (or, in certain cases, 150 days) after either the Trustee or holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding notes of a series of the Notes have given us written notice of the breach in the manner required by the Indenture; and (e) specified events involving the bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization involving Seagate HDD or any of its significant subsidiaries. If an event of default resulting from specified events involving the bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization involving Seagate HDD or any of its significant subsidiaries has occurred and is continuing, the Indenture provides that the entire principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest of the Notes outstanding will automatically become due immediately and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any holder. Upon any other event of default with respect to any series of the Notes, the Indenture provides that either the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding notes of that series may declare the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest of all the outstanding notes of that entire series due and immediately payable. Upon such a declaration, Seagate HDD would be obligated to pay the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest of the series of Notes so declared due and payable.
The Company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed Seagate HDD's obligations under the Notes on a senior, unsecured basis.
The descriptions above are summaries and are qualified in their entirety by the Indenture and the Notes, filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1 and Exhibit 4.2 respectively, and incorporated by reference herein.
Amended and Restated Credit Facility
On September 19, 2006, the Company and Seagate HDD entered into an amended and restated Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") by and among the Company, Seagate HDD, the lenders party thereto (the "Lenders"), JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as syndication agent, and BNP Paribas, Keybank National Association, Wachovia Bank, National Association and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as co-documentation agents.
The Credit Agreement provides for a $500 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility, under which Seagate HDD may borrow at any time until the earlier of September 19, 2011 and the date of termination of the commitments under the Credit Agreement. An aggregate amount of up to $100 million of the facility shall be available for the issuance of letters of credit. The Company has guaranteed all of Seagate HDD's obligations under the Credit Agreement. Seagate HDD did not draw on the facility at closing.
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, and customary events of default, including among others, non payment of principal, interest or other amounts when due, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, breach of covenants, cross default with indebtedness in excess of $50 million, insolvency or inability to pay debts, bankruptcy, or a change of control (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The Company must meet a fixed charge coverage ratio and a leverage ratio and maintain a minimum liquidity amount.
Unless previously terminated, the commitments under the Credit Agreement shall terminate on September 19, 2011, at which time any outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement will be due and payable. The Company may prepay loans under the Credit Agreement at any time and from time to time, without premium or penalty, subject to reimbursement of break funding costs.
The Credit Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
To the extent required by Item 1.02 of Form 8-K, the information contained in or incorporated by reference in Item 8.01 of this report is incorporated by reference in this Item 1.02. In addition, to the extent required by Item 1.02 of Form 8-K, the Indenture between the Company as guarantor, Seagate HDD Holdings as issuer and U.S. Bank National Association, dated May 13, 2002 (the "2002 Indenture"), which was filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's registration statement on Form S-4 filed by the Company on May 16, 2002, is incorporated by reference in this Item 1.02 pursuant to General Instruction B.3 of Form 8-K. On September 20, 2006, Seagate elected to call for full redemption its $400 million aggregate principal amount of 8% Senior Notes due 2009 (the "8% Notes") and U.S. Bank National Association, the trustee for the 8% Notes, has been instructed to mail a notice of redemption to all registered holders of the Notes on September 25, 2006. The redemption price for the Notes is $1,040 per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, plus accrued interest to, but excluding, October 25, 2006, which is the date of redemption. Upon redemption by Seagate HDD of the 8% Notes, as described under Item 8.01 of this Form 8-K, none of the 8% Notes will remain outstanding and the 2002 Indenture will generally cease to be of further effect. The Company does not expect to incur any early termination penalties in connection with the redemption of the 8% Notes beyond the 4% redemption premium reflected in the redemption price.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
The information set forth above under Item 1.01 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 2.04. Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement.
To the extent required by Item 2.04 of Form 8-K, the information contained or incorporated in Items 1.02 and 8.01 of this report is incorporated by reference in this Item 2.04.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
The Company issued a press release on September 20, 2006 announcing its election to call for redemption its $400,000,000 of 8% Senior Notes due 2009. A copy of this press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference in this Item 8.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.A. means Not Applicable
Note: This Cross-Reference Table shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be part of this Indenture.
 
INDENTURE, dated as of September 20, 2006, among Seagate Technology HDD Holdings, an exempted limited liability company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, as issuer (the ""), and Seagate Technology, an exempted limited liability company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands as guarantor (""), and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association, as Trustee (the "").
Company
Parent
Trustee
The Company has duly authorized the creation of an issue of Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2009 (the ""), 6.375% Senior Notes due 2011 (the "") and 6.800% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "" and, together with the 2009 Notes and the 2011 Notes, the "") of substantially the tenor and amount hereinafter set forth, and Parent has duly authorized the guarantee of the Notes by Parent (the ""), and to provide therefor each of the Company and Parent has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture.
2009 Notes
2011 Notes
2016 Notes
Notes
Parent Guarantee
All things necessary have been done to make (i) the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered hereunder and duly issued by the Company, the valid obligations of the Company, (ii) the Parent Guarantee, when the Indenture is executed and delivered by Parent, to make the Parent Guarantee a valid obligation of Parent, and (iii) this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company and Parent, in accordance with the terms of the Notes and the Indenture.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchases of the Notes by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the benefit of the Company, Parent and the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Notes, as follows:
Section 1.01 For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
. Definitions.
(i) the terms defined in this Article 1 have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(ii) all other terms used herein that are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(iii) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP; and
(iv) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
"," when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 1.04.
Act
"" means notes in an unlimited amount issued from time to time under this Indenture in addition to the $1,500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2009 Notes, 2011 Notes and 2016 Notes originally issued hereunder, having the same terms in all respects as the applicable series of 2009 Notes, 2011 Notes or 2016 Notes hereunder (other than (i) the payment of interest accruing prior to the issue date of such Additional Notes and (ii) the first payment of interest following the issue date of such Additional Notes).
Additional Notes
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.10.
Agent Members
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.12.
Aggregate Debt
"" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Notes, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange.
Applicable Procedures
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.12.
Attributable Liens
"" means, with respect to any Person, the board of directors of such Person or, except for purposes of Section 3.09 and the definition of "Change of Control", any duly authorized committee of that board.
Board of Directors
"" means, with respect to any Person, a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of such Person to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
"" means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York and the City of San Francisco are authorized or obligated by law, or executive order or governmental decree to be closed.
Business Day
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.12.
Capital Lease
"" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change of Control
(i) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that for purposes of this clause (i) such person shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all shares that any such person has the right to acquire, whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the total voting power of the Voting Stock of the Company (for purposes of this clause (i), a person shall be deemed to beneficially own any Voting Stock of a person (the "") held by any other person (the "") so long as such person is the beneficial owner (as defined in this clause (i)), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting power of the Voting Stock of the parent entity);
specified person
parent entity
(ii) individuals who on the Issue Date constituted the Board of Directors of the Company or Parent (together with any new directors whose election by such Board of Directors of the Company or Parent or whose nomination for election by the shareholders of the Company or Parent, as the case may be, was approved by a vote of a majority of the directors of the Company or of Parent, as the case may be, then still in office who were either directors on the Issue Date or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved) cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company or Parent then in office;
(iii) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or
(iv) the merger or consolidation of Parent or the Company with or into another Person or the merger of another Person with or into Parent or the Company, or the sale of all or substantially all the assets of Parent or the Company (determined on a consolidated basis) to another Person, other than a transaction following which, in the case of a merger or consolidation transaction, Holders of securities that represented 100% of the Voting Stock of Parent or the Company immediately prior to such transaction (or other securities into which such securities are converted as part of such merger or consolidation transaction) own directly or indirectly at least a majority of the voting power of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person in such merger or consolidation transaction immediately after such transaction and in substantially the same proportion as before the transaction.
 
"" means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme, Luxembourg (formerly Cedel Bank, socit anonyme), and any successor thereto.
Clearstream
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
Commission
"" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
Company
"" or "" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any two of its Chairman of the Board, its Vice Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its President, any Vice President, its Chief Financial Officer, its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Request
Company Order
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by a Reference Treasury Dealer as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes called for redemption, that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes called for redemption.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Company or such agent as may be appointed by the Company, of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that Redemption Date.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.12.
Consolidated Net Worth
has the meaning specified in Section 3.12.
"Consolidated Subsidiaries"
"" means the office of the Trustee at which the corporate trust business of the Trustee shall, at any particular time, be principally administered, which office is, at the date of this Indenture, located at One California Street, Suite 2100, San Francisco, CA 94111, but for purposes of registration of, transfer and exchange and presentation and surrender of Notes pursuant to Section 3.02, the office of the Trustee shall be located at 100 Wall Street, Suite 1600, New York, NY 10005.
Corporate Trust Office
 
"" means a corporation, association, company, joint-stock company or business trust.
corporation
"" means any event that is or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means The Depository Trust Company until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Depositary" shall mean such successor Depositary.
Depositary
"" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Event of Default
"" means the Euroclear Clearance System and any successor thereto.
Euroclear
"" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are in effect as of the date of determination.
GAAP
"" means a Note in global form registered in the Note Register in the name of a Depositary or a nominee thereof.
Global Note
means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America that, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depositary receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act) as custodian with respect to any such Governmental Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such Governmental Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depositary receipt; , that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the Governmental Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the Governmental Obligation evidenced by such depositary receipt.
"Governmental Obligations"
provided however
"" means a Person in whose name a Note is registered in the Note Register.
Holder
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.12.
Indebtedness
"" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively.
Indenture
"" means the date the Notes are originally issued as set forth on the face of the Note under this Indenture.
Issue Date
has the meaning specified in Section 3.12.
"Lien"
"", when used with respect to any Note, means the date on which the principal or premium of such Note becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity upon optional redemption, upon required repurchase, by declaration of acceleration or otherwise.
Maturity
"" or "" has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of the Recitals of the Company and shall include any Additional Notes issued in accordance with and pursuant to the terms of this Indenture.
Note
Notes
"" and "" have the respective meanings specified in Section 2.07.
Note Register
Note Registrar
"" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Notice of Default
"" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by any two of its the Chairman of the Board, its Vice Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its President, any Vice President, its Chief Financial Officer, its Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee. One of the officers signing an Officers' Certificate given pursuant to Section 3.04 shall be the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of the Company.
Officers' Certificate
"" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be external or in-house counsel for the Company, and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
"," when used with respect to Notes, means, as of the date of determination, all Notes theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
Outstanding
(i) Notes theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
 
(ii) Notes, or portions thereof, for whose payment, redemption or repurchase money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Notes; that if such Notes are to be redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall have been given to the Holders as herein provided, or provision satisfactory to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have been made for giving such notice; and
provided
(iii) Notes that have been paid or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Notes have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture;
, that, in determining whether the Holders of the requisite Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Notes owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Notes shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Notes which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Notes so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Notes and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Notes.
provided, however
"" means the guarantee by Parent of the Company's obligations with respect to the Notes.
Parent Guarantee
"" means any Person (including the Company) authorized by the Company to pay the principal, redemption price or repurchase price of any Note on behalf of the Company. The Trustee shall initially be the Paying Agent.
Paying Agent
has the meaning specified in Section 3.12.
"Permitted Liens"
" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, limited liability company, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person"
"" means permanent certificated Notes in registered form issued in denomination of $1,000 Principal Amount and integral multiples thereof.
Physical Notes
"" of a Note means the Principal Amount as set forth on the face of the Note.
Principal Amount
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.12.
Principal Property
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.12.
Ratings Decline Period
"" has the respective meanings specified in the Notes attached hereto as , and .
Record Date
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
"" shall mean the date specified for redemption of the Notes in accordance with the terms of the Notes and Section 5.01.
Redemption Date
"" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01.
Redemption Price
"" means Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and two other primary U.S. Government securities dealers selected by the Company and each of their respective successors; that if any of the foregoing ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer, the Company shall substitute another nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided
"" means, on any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Company or such agent as may be appointed by the Company for this purpose, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Company by each Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding that Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means the remaining scheduled payments of principal of and interest on the Notes called for redemption that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for that redemption. If that Redemption Date is not an interest payment date, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment on the Notes will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued on the Notes called for redemption to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
"" means any officer of the Trustee within the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee with direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture and also, with respect to a particular matter, any other officer of the Trustee to whom such matter is referred because of such officer's knowledge and familiarity with the particular subject.
Responsible Officer
"" means the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.12.
Senior Officer
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.12.
Shareholders' Equity
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Regulation S-X, promulgated by the Commission, as may be amended from time to time.
Significant Subsidiary
"," when used with respect to any Note, means the date specified in such Note as the fixed date on which an amount equal to the principal amount of such Note together with accrued and unpaid interest is due and payable.
Stated Maturity
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other similar entity a majority of whose Voting Stock is owned by such Person or a Subsidiary of such Person.
Subsidiary
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.01.
Successor Company
"" has the meaning specified in Section 4.02.
Successor Parent
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity (computed as of the third Business Day immediately preceding that Redemption Date) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in effect on the date as of which this Indenture was executed; , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
Trust Indenture Act
provided, however
"" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean such successor Trustee.
Trustee
"," when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president".
Vice President
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.12.
Voting Stock
Section 1.02 Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee such certificates and opinions as may be required under the Trust Indenture Act. Each such certificate or opinion shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate, if to be given by an officer of the Company, or an Opinion of Counsel, if to be given by counsel, and shall comply with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and any other requirement set forth in this Indenture.
. Compliance Certificates and Opinions.
 
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:
(a) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
(b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(c) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, such individual has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such individual to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(d) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
Section 1.03 In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
. Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
 
Section 1.04 (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as an "" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 7.01) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section 1.04.
. Acts of Holders; Record Dates.
Act
(b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee reasonably deems sufficient.
(c) The Company may, in the circumstances permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, fix any calendar day as the record date for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, or to vote on any action, authorized or permitted to be given or taken by Holders. If not set by the Company prior to the first solicitation of a Holder made by any Person in respect of any such action, or, in the case of any such vote, prior to such vote, the record date for any such action or vote shall be the 30th calendar day (or, if later, the date of the most recent list of Holders required to be provided pursuant to Section 8.01) prior to such first solicitation or vote, as the case may be. With regard to any record date, only the Holders on such date (or their duly designated proxies) shall be entitled to give or take, or vote on, the relevant action.
(d) The ownership of Notes shall be proved by the Note Register.
(e) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Note shall bind every future Holder of the same Note and the Holder of every Note issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Note.
 
Section 1.05 Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with:
. Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company.
(i) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee at: U.S. Bank National Association, One California Street, Suite 2100, San Francisco, CA 94111; or
(ii) the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this instrument or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company, Attention: Treasurer.
Section 1.06 Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at such Holder's address as it appears in the Note Register, not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
. Notice to Holders; Waiver.
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.
Whenever under this Indenture the Trustee is required to provide any notice by mail, in all cases the Trustee may alternatively provide notice by overnight courier or by telefacsimile, with confirmation of transmission.
Section 1.07 If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act that is required hereunder to be a part of and govern this Indenture, the latter provision shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be.
. Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.
 
Section 1.08 The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof, and all Article and Section references are to Articles and Sections, respectively, of this Indenture unless otherwise expressly stated.
. Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
Section 1.09. All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
. Successors and Assigns
Section 1.10 In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
. Severability Clause.
Section 1.11 Nothing in this Indenture or in the Notes, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their respective successors hereunder and the Holders of Notes, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
. Benefits of Indenture.
Section 1.12 This Indenture and the Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
. Governing Law.
Section 2.01. . The aggregate Principal Amount of Notes that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is initially limited to $1,500,000,000, except for Notes authenticated and delivered upon registration or transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Notes pursuant to Sections 2.06, 2.07, 2.08, 5.06 and 10.06. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Additional Notes of each series of Notes may be issued pursuant to this Indenture, and the originally issued Notes of each series and all such Additional Notes of each series shall vote together for all purposes as a single class.
Title and Terms
The 2009 Notes shall be designated as "Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2009," the 2011 Notes shall be designated as "6.375% Senior Notes due 2011" and the 2016 Notes shall be designated as "6.800% Senior Notes due 2016." The 2009 Notes, the 2011 Notes and the 2016 Notes shall each represent a separate series of Notes.
The Notes of each series shall rank equally and with the Notes of each other series and with all other unsecured and unsubordinated debt of the Company.
pari passu
 
The Principal Amount and accrued interest on the Notes shall be payable at the office or agency of the Company in The City of New York maintained for such purpose and at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for such purpose; that, except in the case of a Global Note, the Company will pay interest (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Note Register or (ii) by wire transfer in immediately available funds to a Holder with an aggregate Principal Amount of Notes of any series in excess of $2.0 million, to the place and account designated in writing at least 15 calendar days prior to the interest payment date by the Person entitled thereto as specified in the Note Register.
provided
If the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date for any Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment of principal and interest will be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from and after the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be. If an interest payment date for the 2011 Notes or the 2016 Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the interest payment shall be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from and after such interest payment date. If an interest payment date for the 2009 Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the interest payment date shall be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would be in the following month, in which case, the interest payment date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. Interest on the Notes will be paid to but excluding the relevant interest payment date.
The Notes shall not have the benefit of a sinking fund.
Section 2.02. The 2009 Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in hereto, the 2011 Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in hereto and the 2016 Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and with such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or Depositary therefor, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder, or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Notes, as evidenced by their execution thereof.
Forms of Notes.
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
The terms and provisions contained in the forms of Notes attached hereto as , and shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture and, to the extent applicable, the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
The Notes shall initially be issued in the form of permanent Global Notes in registered form. The aggregate Principal Amount of the Global Notes may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary, as hereinafter provided.
 
Section 2.03Each of the Notes shall bear the following authentication of the Trustee:
. Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.
This is one of the Notes referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Section 2.04. The Notes shall be issuable only in registered form without coupons and in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 above that amount.
Denominations.
Section 2.05. The Notes shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Financial Officer, its President, its Treasurer or one of its Vice Presidents.
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.
Notes bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Notes or did not hold such offices at the date of such Notes.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Notes executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Notes. The Company Order shall specify the amount of Notes to be authenticated, and shall further specify the amount of such Notes to be issued as a Global Note or as Physical Notes. The Trustee in accordance with such Company Order shall authenticate and deliver (i) Notes for original issue in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1,500,000,000 and (ii) Additional Notes from time to time for original issue in aggregate principal amounts specified by the Company after the following conditions have been met: (A) receipt by the Trustee of a Company Order specifying the amount of the Additional Notes to be authenticated, the date on which such Additional Notes are to be authenticated, that such Notes are Additional Notes, whether the Additional Notes are to be issued as one or more Global Notes or as definitive Notes and any other information the Company may determine to include or the Trustee may reasonably request and (B) receipt by the Trustee of an Opinion of Counsel confirming that the Holders of the outstanding Notes of the applicable series will
 
be subject to federal income tax in the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Additional Notes were not issued.
Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication.
No Note shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Note a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Note shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Note has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.
Section 2.06. Pending the preparation of definitive Notes, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Notes which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Notes in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Notes may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Notes.
Temporary Notes.
If temporary Notes are issued, the Company will cause definitive Notes to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Notes, the temporary Notes shall be exchangeable for definitive Notes upon surrender of the temporary Notes at any office or agency of the Company designated pursuant to Section 3.02, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Notes the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like Principal Amount of definitive Notes of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged, the temporary Notes shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Notes.
Section 2.07The Company shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee a register (the register maintained in such office and in any other office or agency designated pursuant to Section 3.02 being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Notes and of transfers of Notes. The Trustee is hereby appointed "Note Registrar" (the "") for the purpose of registering Notes and transfers of Notes as herein provided.
. Registration of Transfer and Exchange.
Note Register
Note Registrar
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Note at an office or agency of the Company designated pursuant to Section 3.02 for such purpose, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Notes of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate Principal Amount and tenor.
 
At the option of the Holder and subject to the other provisions of this Section 2.07 and Sections 2.10 and 2.11, Notes may be exchanged for other Notes of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate Principal Amount and tenor, upon surrender of the Notes to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Notes are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Notes which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
All Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Note presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Note Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Notes, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 2.06 not involving any transfer.
If the Company elects to redeem a series of Notes, it shall not be required to (i) issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Note of such series during the period beginning at the opening of business 15 calendar days before the day the Company mails the notice of redemption for such series of Notes and ending at the close of business on the day such notice of redemption is mailed or (ii) register the transfer or exchange of any Note of such series after a notice of redemption has been mailed to Holders except, where such notice provides that such Note is to be redeemed only in part, the Company shall be required to exchange or register a transfer of the portion thereof not to be redeemed.
Neither the Trustee nor any of its agents shall (i) have any duty to monitor compliance with or with respect to any federal or state or other securities or tax laws or (ii) have any duty to obtain documentation relating to any transfers or exchanges other than as specifically required hereunder.
As used in this Section, the term "" encompasses any sale, pledge, transfer or other disposition of any Note.
transfer
 
Section 2.08. If any mutilated Note is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Note of like tenor and Principal Amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Notes.
If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Note and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to hold each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Note has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Note, a new Note of like tenor and Principal Amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note has become or is about to become due and payable or has been called for redemption in full, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Note, pay such Note.
Upon the issuance of any new Note under this Section 2.08, the Company may require payment by the Holder of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
Every new Note issued pursuant to this Section 2.08 in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Notes duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes.
Section 2.09. Prior to due presentment of a Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Note is registered as the owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of the principal of such Note and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Persons Deemed Owners.
Section 2.10(a) The Global Notes initially shall (i) be registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of such Depositary and (ii) be delivered to the Trustee as custodian for the Depositary.
. Book-Entry Provisions for Global Notes.
 
Members of, or participants in, the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream ("") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Note held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee as its custodian, or under the Global Note, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of the Global Note for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of any Holder.
Agent Members
(b) Transfers of the Global Notes shall be limited to transfers in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees. Interests of beneficial owners in a Global Note may be transferred or exchanged, in whole or in part, for Physical Notes in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary and the provisions of Section 2.11. In addition, Physical Notes shall be transferred to all beneficial owners in exchange for their beneficial interests in the Global Notes if (A) such Depositary has notified the Company (or the Company becomes aware) that the Depositary (i) is unwilling or unable to properly discharge its responsibilities as Depositary for such Global Note or (ii) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act when the Depositary is required to be so registered to act as such Depositary and, in either such case, no successor Depositary shall have been appointed within 90 calendar days of such notification or of the Company becoming aware of such event; or (B) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with respect to such Global Note and the Outstanding Notes shall have become due and payable pursuant to Section 6.02 and the Trustee requests that Physical Notes be issued.
Investors may hold their interests in the Global Notes directly through Euroclear or Clearstream, if they are Agent Members in such systems, or indirectly through organizations that are Agent Members in such systems. If interests in the Global Notes are held through Euroclear or Clearstream, Euroclear and Clearstream shall hold such interests in the Global Notes through the Depositary on behalf of their Agent Members.
(c) In connection with any transfer or exchange of a portion of the beneficial interest in the Global Note to beneficial owners pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Note Registrar shall (if one or more Physical Notes are to be issued) reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the Principal Amount of the Global Note in an amount equal to the Principal Amount of the beneficial interest in the Global Note to be transferred, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, one or more Physical Notes of like tenor and aggregate Principal Amount.
 
(d) In connection with the transfer of the entire Global Note to beneficial owners pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Global Note shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by the Depositary in exchange for its beneficial interest in the Global Note, an equal aggregate Principal Amount of Physical Notes of authorized denominations and the same tenor.
(e) The Holder of the Global Notes may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Notes.
Section 2.11The Company at any time may deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Notes previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Notes previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold. The Trustee shall cancel and dispose of all Notes surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, redemption or cancellation in accordance with its customary practices. If the Company shall acquire any of the Notes, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Notes unless and until the same are delivered to the Trustee for cancellation. The Company may not issue new Notes to replace Notes it has paid in full or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
. Cancellation and Transfer Provisions.
Section 2.12. . The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and "Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear" and the "General Terms and Conditions" and "Customer Handbook" of Clearstream shall be applicable to transfers of beneficial interests in any Global Note held by Agent Members through Euroclear and Clearstream.
Euroclear and Clearstream Procedures Applicable
Section 2.13. In issuing the Notes, the Company may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
CUSIP Numbers.
 
Section 3.01 The Company shall duly and punctually make all payments in respect of the Notes in accordance with the terms of the Notes and this Indenture.
.
Payments.
Any payments made or due pursuant to this Indenture shall be considered paid on the applicable date due if by 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on such date the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, cash sufficient to pay all such amounts then due. Payment of the principal and interest on the Notes shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Section 3.02The Company shall maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, an office or agency where Notes may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served, which shall initially be the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
. Maintenance of Office or Agency.
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies (in or outside the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York) where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, for such purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided, however
Section 3.03If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent, it shall, on or before each due date of any payment in respect of any of the Notes, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to make the payment so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and shall promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
. Money for Note Payments to be Held in Trust.
 
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents, it will, prior to each due date of any payment in respect of any Notes, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such amount, such sum to be held as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
The Company shall cause each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section 3.03, that such Paying Agent will (i) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent and (ii) during the continuance of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Notes) in the making of any payment in respect of the Notes, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums held in trust by such Paying Agent as such.
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the making of payments in respect of any Note and remaining unclaimed for two years after such payment has become due shall be paid to the Company or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Note shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in The City of New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 calendar days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining shall be repaid to the Company. Any such unclaimed funds held by the Trustee pursuant to this Section 3.03 shall be held uninvested and without any liability for interest.
provided, however
Section 3.04The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 calendar days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the Issue Date, an Officers' Certificate which shall comply with the provisions of Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act, stating
. Statement by Officers as to Default.
 
whether or not to the knowledge of the signers thereof any Default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) that occurred during the previous fiscal year, specifying all such Defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they have knowledge.
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, as soon as possible and in any event within 30 calendar days after the Company becomes aware of the occurrence of any Event of Default or an event which, with notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate setting forth the details of such Event of Default or default and the action which the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
Section 3.05Subject to Article 4, each of the Company and Parent shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights and franchises; , that neither the Company nor Parent shall be required to preserve any such right or franchise if its Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company or Parent, as applicable, and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders.
. Existence.
provided, however
Section 3.06The Company covenants to comply with Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act as it relates to information, documents and reports which the Company may be required to file with the Trustee pursuant to such Section 314(a) and with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or otherwise by the Exchange Act, the Trust Indenture Act or other rules and regulations of the Commission and to file such information, documents and reports with the Trustee within 15 calendar days after the same is filed with the Commission; that in each case the delivery of materials to the Trustee by electronic means or filing of documents pursuant to the Commission's "EDGAR" system (or any successor electronic filing system) shall be deemed to be "filed" with the Trustee for purposes of this Section 3.06; and , that so long as Parent is the Guarantor of the Notes, the information, documents and reports required to be filed and provided as described in this Section 3.06 may, at the Company's option, be filed and provided by, and be those of, Parent rather than the Company. Delivery of such information, documents and reports to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
. Reports and Delivery of Certain Information.
provided
provided further
Section 3.07If the Notes cease to trade in the Depositary's book-entry settlement system, the Company covenants and agrees that it shall use reasonable efforts to make such other book-entry arrangements that it determines are reasonable for the Notes.
. Book-Entry System.
 
Section 3.08The Company shall provide to the Trustee on a timely basis such information as the Trustee requires to enable the Trustee to prepare and file any form required to be submitted by the Company with the Internal Revenue Service and the Holders of the Notes.
. Information for IRS Filings.
Section 3.09(a) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control that is accompanied or followed by a downgrade of the applicable series of Notes within the Ratings Decline Period by both Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services below the lower of the respective rating in effect (i) immediately preceding the first public announcement of such Change of Control or (ii) on the Issue Date, each Holder shall have the right to require that the Company repurchase such Holder's Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the Principal Amount thereof on the date of purchase plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to but excluding the date of purchase (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date), in accordance with the terms contemplated in Section 3.09(b).
. Change of Control.
(b) Within 30 calendar days following any Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder with a copy to the Trustee (the "") stating:
Change of Control Offer
(i) that a Change of Control has occurred and that such Holder has the right to require the Company to purchase such Holder's Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the Principal Amount thereof on the date of purchase, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest on the relevant interest payment date);
(ii) the circumstances and relevant facts regarding such Change of Control;
(iii) the purchase date (which shall be no earlier than 30 calendar days nor later than 60 calendar days from the date such notice is mailed); and
(iv) the instructions, as determined by the Company, consistent with this Section 3.09, that a Holder must follow in order to have its Notes purchased.
(c) Holders electing to have Notes purchased will be required to surrender the Notes, with an appropriate form duly completed, to the Company at the address specified in the notice at least three Business Days prior to the purchase date. Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election if the Trustee or
 
the Company receives not later than one Business Day prior to the purchase date, a facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of the Note which was delivered for purchase by the Holder and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing such Holder's election to have such Note purchased.
(d) On the purchase date, all Notes purchased by the Company under this Section 3.09 shall be delivered by the Company to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall pay the purchase price plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Holders entitled thereto.
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 3.09, the Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer following a Change of Control with respect to a particular series of Notes, (1) if, with respect to such series of Notes, a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 3.09 applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes of such series validly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer or (2) if, with respect to the 2011 Notes or the 2016 Notes, the Company has exercised its option to redeem all the Notes of such Series pursuant to Article 5.
(f) The Company shall comply, to the extent applicable, with the requirements of Section 14(e) of the Exchange Act and any other securities laws or regulations in connection with the repurchase of Notes pursuant to this Section 3.09. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with provisions of this Section 3.09, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 3.09 by virtue of its compliance with such securities laws or regulations.
Section 3.10. . (a) Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries will create or incur any Lien on any Principal Property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, in order to secure any Indebtedness, without effectively providing that the Notes shall be equally and ratably secured until such time as such Indebtedness is no longer secured by such Lien, except:
Limitation on Liens
(i) Liens existing as of the Issue Date;
(ii) Liens granted after the Issue Date created in favor of the Holders of the Notes;
(iii) Liens created in substitution of, or as replacements for, any Liens permitted by clause (i) or (ii) of this Section 3.10; that based on a good faith determination of one of the Company's Senior Officers, the Principal Property encumbered under any such substitute or replacement Lien is substantially similar in nature to the Principal
provided
 
Property encumbered by the otherwise permitted Lien which is being replaced; and
(iv) Permitted Liens.
(b) Notwithstanding Section 3.10(a), the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company may, without equally and ratably securing the Notes, create or incur Liens which would otherwise be subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 3.10(a) if, after giving effect thereto, Aggregate Debt does not exceed the greater of (i) 15% of Consolidated Net Worth calculated as of the date of the creation or incurrence of the Lien or (ii) 15% of Consolidated Net Worth calculated as of the Issue Date. The Company or any Subsidiary of the Company also may, without equally and ratably securing the Notes, create or incur Liens that extend, renew, substitute or replace (including successive extensions, renewals, substitutions or replacements), in whole or in part, any Lien permitted pursuant to this Section 3.10(b).
Section 3.11. (a) Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries will enter into any sale and lease-back transaction for the sale and leasing back of any Principal Property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, unless:
Limitation on Sale and Lease-Back Transactions.
(i) such transaction was entered into prior to the Issue Date;
(ii) such transaction was for the sale and leasing back to the Company of any Principal Property by one of its Subsidiaries;
(iii) such transaction involves a lease for not more than three years (or which may be terminated by the Company within a period of not more than three years);
(iv) the Company would be entitled to incur Indebtedness secured by a mortgage on the property to be leased in an amount equal to the Attributable Liens with respect to such sale and lease-back transaction without equally and ratably securing the Notes pursuant to Section 3.10(a); or
(v) the Company applies an amount equal to the net proceeds from the sale of the Principal Property to the purchase of another Principal Property or to the retirement of long-term Indebtedness within 365 calendar days before or after the effective date of any such sale and lease-back transaction; that in lieu of applying such amount to such retirement, the Company may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation, such Notes to be credited at the cost thereof to the Company.
provided
(b) Notwithstanding Section 3.11(a), the Company and its Subsidiaries may enter into any sale lease-back transaction which would otherwise be subject
 
to the foregoing restrictions if after giving effect thereto and at the time of determination, Aggregate Debt does not exceed the greater of (i) 15% of Consolidated Net Worth calculated as of the closing date of the sale and leaseback transaction or (ii) 15% of Consolidated Net Worth calculated as of the Issue Date.
Section 3.12. As used in Section 3.09, 3.10 and 3.11, the following terms have the meanings set forth below.
. Certain Definitions
"" means the sum of the following as of the date of determination: (i) the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries incurred after the Issue Date and secured by Liens not permitted under Section 3.10(a) and (ii) Attributable Liens of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries in respect of sale and lease-back transactions entered into after the Issue Date pursuant to Section 3.11(b).
Aggregate Debt
"" means, in connection with a sale and lease-back transaction, the lesser of: (i) the fair market value of the assets subject to such transaction, as determined in good faith by the Company's Board of Directors; and (2) the present value (discounted at a rate of 10% per annum compounded monthly) of the obligations of the lessee for rental payments during the shorter of the term of the related lease or the period through the first date on which the Company may terminate the lease.
Attributable Liens
"" means any Indebtedness represented by a lease obligation of a Person incurred with respect to real property or equipment acquired or leased by such Person and used in its business that is required to be recorded as a capital lease in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease
"" means, as of any date of determination, the Shareholders' Equity of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on that date.
Consolidated Net Worth
" means, as of any date of determination and with respect to any Person, those Subsidiaries of that Person whose financial data is, in accordance with GAAP, reflected in that Person's consolidated financial statements.
"Consolidated Subsidiaries
"" of any specified Person means any indebtedness in respect of borrowed money.
Indebtedness
" means any lien, security interest, charge or encumbrance of any kind (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, and any agreement to give any security interest).
Lien"
"" means:
Permitted Liens
(a) Liens existing on the Issue Date;
 
(b) Liens on any assets, created solely to secure obligations incurred to finance the refurbishment, improvement or construction of such asset, which obligations are incurred no later than 12 months after completion of such refurbishment, improvement or construction, and all renewals, extensions, refinancings, replacements or refundings of such obligations;
(c) (i) Liens given to secure the payment of the purchase price incurred in connection with the acquisition (including acquisition through merger or consolidation) of any Principal Property, including Capital Lease transactions in connection with any such acquisition, and (ii) Liens existing on any Principal Property at the time of acquisition thereof or at the time of acquisition by the Company of any Person then owning such property whether or not such existing Liens were given to secure the payment of the purchase price of the property to which they attach; that with respect to clause (i), the Liens shall be given within 12 months after such acquisition and shall attach solely to the Principal Property acquired or purchased and any improvements then or thereafter placed thereon and any proceeds thereof;
provided
(d) pre-existing Liens on assets acquired after the Issue Date;
(e) Liens in favor of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company;
(f) purchase money Liens or purchase money security interests upon or in any Principal Property acquired or held by the Company in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such Principal Property or to secure Indebtedness incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such Principal Property;
(g) Liens on any Principal Property in favor of the United States of America or any State thereof or any political subdivision thereof to secure progress or other payments or to secure Indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such Principal Property;
(h) Liens imposed by law, such as carriers', warehousemen's and mechanic's Liens and other similar Liens, in each case for sums not yet overdue by more than 30 calendar days or being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings or other Liens arising out of judgments or awards against such Person with respect to which such Person shall then be proceeding with an appeal or other proceedings for review and Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's Liens, rights of set-off or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained with a creditor depository institution;
(i) Liens for taxes, assessments or other governmental charges not yet due or payable or subject to penalties for non-payment or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
 
(j) Liens to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
(k) licenses of intellectual property of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries granted in the ordinary course of business or otherwise; or
(l) any extension, renewal, substitution or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals, substitutions or replacements), in whole or in part, of any Lien referred to in the clauses (a) to (k), inclusive.
"" means, with respect to any Person, all of such Person's interests in any kind of property or asset (including the capital stock in and other securities of any other Person), except such as the Company's Board of Directors by resolution determines in good faith (taking into account, among other things, the materiality of such property to the business, financial condition and earnings of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries taken as a whole) not to be material to the business of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Principal Property
"" means the period that begins on the date of the first public announcement of the occurrence of a Change of Control or of the intention by the Company, Parent or a shareholder of Parent, as applicable, to effect a Change of Control, and ends 60 calendar days after the consummation of such Change of Control; , , that such period shall be extended for so long as the rating of the Notes relating to the Change of Control, as noted by the applicable rating agency, is under publicly announced consideration for downgrade by such rating agency.
Ratings Decline Period
provided
however
" of any specified Person means the chief executive officer, any president, any vice president, the chief financial officer, the treasurer, any assistant treasurer, the secretary or any assistant secretary.
Senior Officer"
"" means, as of any date of determination, shareholders' equity as reflected on the Company's most recent consolidated balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Shareholders' Equity
"" of a Person means all classes of capital stock or other interests (including partnership interests) of such Person then outstanding and normally entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof.
Voting Stock
Section 4.01The Company shall not consolidate with or merge with or into any other Person or
. Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.
 
convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, in a single transaction or in a series of transactions, unless:
(a) either (i) the Company shall be the continuing Person or (ii) the Person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer, or which leases, all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company (the ""), (A) shall be organized and validly existing under the laws of the Cayman Islands or under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and (B) the Successor Company shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, all of the obligations of the Company under the Notes and this Indenture;
Successor Company
(b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(c) the Company or the Successor Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture, comply with this Article 4.
Section 4.02 Parent shall not consolidate with or merge with or into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, in a single transaction or in a series of transactions, unless:
. Parent May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.
(a) either (i) Parent shall be the continuing Person or (ii) the Person (if other than Parent) formed by such consolidation or into which Parent is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer, or which leases, all or substantially all of the properties and assets of Parent (the ""), (A) shall be organized and validly existing under the laws of the Cayman Islands or under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and (B) the Successor Parent shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, all of the obligations of Parent under the Notes, the Parent Guarantee and this Indenture;
Successor Parent
(b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(c) Parent or the Successor Parent has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this Article 4.
 
Section 4.03 (a) Upon any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the Company into, any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of all or substantially all the properties and assets of the Company in accordance with Section 4.01, the Successor Company shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such Successor Company had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Notes.
. Successor Substituted.
(b) Upon any consolidation of Parent with, or merger of Parent into, any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of all or substantially all the properties and assets of Parent in accordance with Section 4.02, the Successor Parent shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, Parent under this Indenture with the same effect as if such Successor Parent had been named as Parent herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture, the Parent Guarantee and the Notes.
Section 5.01The Notes are not redeemable at the option of any Holder thereof, upon the occurrence of any particular event or otherwise, except as provided in Section 3.09. The 2009 Notes are not redeemable at the option of the Company, upon the occurrence of any particular event or otherwise. The 2011 Notes and 2016 Notes will each be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, at any time or from time to time, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (b) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments on such series of Notes discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points in the case of the 2011 Notes and 50 basis points in the case of the 2016 Notes (in each such case, the ""). The Redemption Price will be provided to the Trustee by the Company. Accrued interest will be paid to but excluding the Redemption Date.
. Optional Redemption of Notes by the Company.
Redemption Price
The Company shall give notice to the Trustee of its election to redeem Notes of any series by a Company Order, at least 30 calendar days but not more than 60 calendar days before the Redemption Date (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee).
 
Section 5.02If less than all the 2011 Notes or the 2016 Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select the Notes of such series to be redeemed on a pro rata basis or by lot or by any other method the Trustee considers fair and appropriate (so long as such method is not prohibited by the rules of any stock exchange on which the Notes are then listed). The Trustee shall make the selection within seven calendar days from its receipt of the notice from the Company delivered pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 5.01 from Outstanding Notes not previously called for redemption.
. Selection of Notes to be Redeemed.
Notes and portions of them the Trustee selects shall be in denominations of $1,000 or integral multiples of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to Notes called for redemption in whole also apply to Notes called for redemption in part. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of the Notes or portions of Notes to be redeemed.
Section 5.03At least 30 calendar days but not more than 60 calendar days before a Redemption Date, the Company shall mail a notice of redemption by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed.
. Notice of Redemption.
The notice shall identify the Notes to be redeemed and shall state:
(i) the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be redeemed;
(ii) the Redemption Date;
(iii) the amount of interest accrued to the Redemption Date on the Notes to be redeemed;
(iv) that on and after the Redemption Date, interest on the Notes to be redeemed, or on the portion thereof to be redeemed, will cease to accrue;
(v) the name and address of the Paying Agent;
(vi) that Notes called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent for cancellation to collect the Redemption Price;
(vii) if fewer than all the outstanding Notes are to be redeemed, the certificate number (if such Notes are held other than in global form) and Principal Amounts of the particular Notes to be redeemed; and
(viii) the CUSIP number of the Notes being redeemed.
At the Company's written request delivered at least 15 calendar days prior to the date such notice is to be given (unless a shorter time period shall be acceptable to the Trustee), the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at the Company's expense.
 
Section 5.04Once notice of redemption is given, Notes called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the Redemption Price stated in the notice. Upon surrender to the Paying Agent, such Notes shall be paid at the Redemption Price stated in the notice. Unless the Company Defaults on the payment of the Redemption Price, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
. Effect of Notice of Redemption.
Section 5.05Prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on a Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust) money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Notes to be redeemed on that date other than Notes or portions of Notes called for redemption which on or prior thereto have been delivered by the Company to the Trustee for cancellation.
. Deposit of Redemption Price.
Section 5.06Upon surrender of a Note that is redeemed in part, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder a new Note in an authorized denomination equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Note surrendered.
. Notes Redeemed in Part.
Section 6.01"," wherever used herein, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
. Events of Default.
Event of Default
(a) default in any payment of interest on any Note when the same becomes due and payable, and such default continues for a period of 30 calendar days;
(b) default in the payment of the Principal Amount of or premium (if any) on any Note when the same becomes due and payable at its Stated Maturity, upon optional redemption, upon required repurchase, upon declaration of acceleration or otherwise;
(c) default in the performance of the Company's obligations under Section 3.09(b) in connection with a Change of Control and such default continues for a period of 30 calendar days;
(d) default in the performance of any covenant, agreement or condition of the Company or Parent in this Indenture or the applicable series of Notes (other than a default specified in Section 6.01(a), Section 6.01(b) or Section 6.01(c)), and such default continues for a period of 90 calendar days after there has been
 
given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Trustee and the Company by the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the applicable series of outstanding Notes a written notice specifying such default and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "" hereunder, that, with respect to Section 3.06, the 90 calendar day period shall be extended to 150 calendar days;
Notice of Default
provided however,
(e) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (i) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law, (ii) a decree or order adjudging the Company or such Significant Subsidiary as bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company or such Significant Subsidiary under any applicable law or (iii) appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or such Significant Subsidiary or of any substantial part of the property or assets of the Company or such Significant Subsidiary, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive calendar days; or
(f) the commencement by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or such Significant Subsidiary in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or such Significant Subsidiary or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company or such Significant Subsidiary in furtherance of any such action.
Section 6.02 (a) If an Event of Default (other than those specified in 6.01(e) and 6.01(f)) occurs and is continuing, then and in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the applicable series of outstanding Notes may declare the Principal Amount plus accrued and unpaid interest on the applicable series of outstanding Notes to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest shall become immediately due and payable.
. Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(e) or 6.01(f), the Principal Amount plus accrued and unpaid interest on the applicable series of outstanding Notes will become due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
ipso facto
(b) At any time after such a declaration of acceleration has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter provided, the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the applicable series of outstanding Notes, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
(i) such rescission and annulment will not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction; and
(ii) all Events of Default, other than the non-payment of the Principal Amount plus accrued and unpaid interest on the applicable series of Notes which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 6.12.
Section 6.03The Company covenants that if a default is made in the payment of the Principal Amount of or premium (if any) on any Note when the same becomes due and payable at its Stated Maturity, upon optional redemption, upon required repurchase, upon declaration of acceleration or otherwise, the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of the applicable series of Notes, the whole amount then due and payable on such Notes and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
. Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of the Principal Amount, premium (if any) and accrued and unpaid interest on the applicable series of Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the applicable series of Notes or this Indenture. The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if the Trustee does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of the Notes in the proceeding.
Section 6.04In case of any judicial proceeding relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Notes), its property or its creditors, the Trustee shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, to take any and all actions
. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
 
authorized under the Trust Indenture Act in order to have claims of the Holders and the Trustee allowed in any such proceeding. In particular, the Trustee shall be authorized to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07.
No provision of this Indenture shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
Section 6.05Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article 6 shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money to Holders, upon presentation of the Notes and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
. Application of Money Collected.
FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07; and
SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid on the applicable series of Notes for the Principal Amount, premium (if any) and accrued and unpaid interest in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Notes.
Section 6.06No Holder of any Note shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder (other than in the case of an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(a) or 6.01(b)), unless:
. Limitation on Suits.
(i) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default;
(ii) the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the applicable series of outstanding Notes shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
 
(iii) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense to be incurred in compliance with such request;
(iv) the Trustee for 60 calendar days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of security or indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
(v) no direction, in the opinion of the Trustee, inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60 calendar day period by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the applicable series of outstanding Notes;
it being understood and intended that no one or more Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing itself of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all the Holders.
Section 6.07Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder to receive payment of the Principal Amount, premium (if any) and accrued and unpaid interest in respect of the applicable series of Notes held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Notes or the Indenture, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected adversely without the consent of such Holder.
. Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Payment.
Section 6.08If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
. Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
Section 6.09Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes in the last paragraph of Section 2.08, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
. Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
 
Section 6.10No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Note to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article 6 or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
. Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
Section 6.11The Holders of a majority in Principal Amount of the applicable series of outstanding Notes shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee with respect to such series of Notes or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee by the Holders of such series of Notes; that the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with any rule of law or with this Indenture or that the Trustee determines is unduly prejudicial to the rights of any other Holder or that would involve the Trustee in personal liability.
. Control by Holders.
provided
Section 6.12The Holders of not less than a majority in Principal Amount of the applicable series of outstanding Notes may on behalf of the Holders of all such Notes of that series waive any past Default hereunder and its consequences, except a Default:
. Waiver of Past Defaults.
(i) described in Section 6.01(a) or 6.01(b); or
(ii) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article 10 cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding Note affected.
Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 6.13In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, in either case in respect of the applicable series of Notes, a court may require any party litigant in such suit to file an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorney's fees, against any party litigant in the suit having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant; but the provisions of this Section 6.13 shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Company, to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than
. Undertaking for Costs.
 
10% in Principal Amount of the applicable series of outstanding Notes, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the Principal Amount or premium (if any) on any Note when the same becomes due and payable at its Stated Maturity, upon optional redemption, upon required repurchase, upon declaration of acceleration or otherwise.
Section 6.14The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
. Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.
Section 7.01The duties and responsibilities of the Trustee shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act. Except during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee. In case an Event of Default with respect to the applicable series of Notes has occurred (which has not been cured or waived), the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
. Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
Section 7.02The Trustee shall give the Holders notice of any Default hereunder within 90 calendar days after its actual knowledge of an occurrence thereof; that (except in the case of any Default described in Section 6.01(a) or Section 6.01(b)), the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as a trust committee of directors and/or a Responsible Office of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders of such Notes.
. Notice of Defaults.
provided
 
Section 7.03Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01:
. Certain Rights of Trustee.
(a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution
(c) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, request and rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
(d) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
(e) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it in its sole discretion against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
(f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit; and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation;
(g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
 
(h) the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of any Default or Event of Default with respect to the Notes unless either (i) a Responsible Officer shall have actual knowledge of such Default or Event of Default or (ii) written notice of such Default or Event of Default shall have been given to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee by the Company or any other obligor on such Notes or by any Holder of such Notes;
(i) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
(j) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian, director, officer, employee and other Person employed to act hereunder;
(k) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded; and
(l) the permissive rights of the Trustee to take certain actions under this Indenture shall not be construed as a duty unless so specified herein.
Section 7.04The recitals contained herein and in the Notes, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity, sufficiency or priority of this Indenture or of the Notes. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Notes or the proceeds thereof.
. Not Responsible for Recitals.
Section 7.05The Trustee, any Paying Agent, any Note Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and, subject to Sections 7.08 and 7.13, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent, Note Registrar or such other agent.
. May Hold Notes.
Section 7.06Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Company.
. Money Held in Trust.
 
Section 7.07The Company agrees:
. Compensation and Reimbursement.
(i) to pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
(ii) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or willful misconduct; and
(iii) to indemnify the Trustee (which for purposes of this Section 7.07(iii) shall include its officers, directors, employees and agents) and any predecessor Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense including taxes (other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the income of the Trustee) incurred without negligence or willful misconduct on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the reasonable costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim (whether assessed by the Company, by any Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder
The obligations of the Company under this Section 7.07 shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee and the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture. To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 7.07, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay principal on the Notes. Such lien shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee and the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture. When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after a Default or an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(e) and 6.01(f) occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services (including the fees and expenses of its agents and counsel) are intended to constitute expenses of administration under U.S. Code, Title 11 or any other similar foreign, federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
In no event shall the Trustee be liable for any indirect, special, punitive or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever, including, but not limited to, lost profits, even if the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
In no event shall the Trustee be liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder because of circumstances beyond its control, including, but not limited to, acts of God, flood, war (whether declared or
 
undeclared), terrorism, fire, riot, embargo, government action, including any laws, ordinances, regulations, governmental action or the like which delays, restricts or prohibits the providing of services contemplated by this Indenture.
Section 7.08If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture.
. Disqualification; Conflicting Interests.
Section 7.09There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and has, or whose parent banking company has, a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section 7.09, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7.09, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article 7.
. Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.
Section 7.10
. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.
(a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article 7 shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee under Section 7.11.
(b) The Trustee may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If an instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 calendar days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction at the expense of the Trustee for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
(c) The Trustee may be removed at any time by Act of the Holders of majority in Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company. If an instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 calendar days after the notice of removal, the Trustee being removed may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes.
 
(d) If at any time:
(i) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 7.08 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Note for at least six months, or
(ii) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 7.09 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or
(iii) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or
(iv) a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
then, in any such case, (A) the Company by a Company Order may remove the Trustee, or (B) subject to Section 6.13, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of the applicable series of Notes for at least six months may, on behalf of such Holder and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
(e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, the Company, by a Company Order, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee. If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment, become the successor Trustee and supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner hereinafter provided, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Note for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee
(f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee and each appointment of a successor Trustee to all Holders in the manner provided in Section 1.06. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
Section 7.11Every successor Trustee appointed hereunder shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the
. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.
 
Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder. Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts.
No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article 7.
Section 7.12Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee by sale or otherwise, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder; such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article 7, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Notes shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Notes so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Notes.
. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.
provided
Section 7.13If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or any other obligor upon the Notes), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other obligor).
. Preferential Collection of Claims.
Section 8.01 The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
. Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders.
(i) in the case of the 2009 Notes, quarterly, not more than 15 calendar days after each Record Date, a list in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and address of the Holders of the 2009 Notes as of such Record Date;
 
(ii) in the case of the 2011 Notes and the 2016 Notes, semi-annually, not more than 15 calendar days after each Record Date, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders of the 2011 Notes and the 2016 Notes as of such Record Date; and
(iii) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 calendar days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 calendar days prior to the time such list is furnished;
excluding from any such list names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Note Registrar; , that no such list need be furnished so long as the Trustee is acting as Note Registrar.
provided, however
Section 8.02(a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 8.01 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Note Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 8.01 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
. Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.
(b) The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Notes, and the corresponding rights and duties of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act.
(c) Every Holder of Notes, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 8.03 (a) The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto. Reports so required to be transmitted at stated intervals of not more than 12 months shall be transmitted no later than May 15 in each calendar year, commencing in 2007. Each such report shall be dated as of a date not more than 60 calendar days prior to the date of transmission.
. Reports by Trustee.
(b) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange, if any, upon which the Notes are listed, with the Commission and with the Company. The Company will notify the Trustee when the Notes are listed on any stock exchange or of any delisting thereof.
 
Section 9.01The Company may terminate its obligations under the Indenture with respect to a series of Notes when:
. Defeasance and Discharge of Indenture.
(a) either
(i) all the Notes of such series that have been authenticated and delivered have been accepted by the Trustee for cancellation (other than any Notes of such series which shall have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which shall have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.08); or
(ii) all the Notes of such series that have not been accepted by the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable, or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year, and the Company shall have made irrevocable arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by such Trustee in the Company's name and at the Company' expense and the Company have irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee sufficient funds to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such series of Notes; and
(b) the Company shall have paid or caused to be paid all other sums then due and payable under the Indenture; and
(c) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each stating that all conditions precedent under the Indenture relating to the satisfaction and discharge of the indenture have been complied with.
If the foregoing conditions are met, the Trustee, on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel and at the cost and expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments prepared by the Company acknowledging such satisfaction of and discharging the Indenture with respect to such series except as to:
(i) rights of registration of transfer and exchange of Notes of such series;
(ii) the Company's right of optional redemption;
(iii) substitution of mutilated, defaced, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes;
(iv) rights of Holders to receive payment of the Principal Amount, premium (if any) and interest when due and payable;
 
(v) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder; and
(vi) the rights of the Holders of such series as beneficiaries hereof with respect to the property so deposited with the Trustee payable to all or any of them; and the rights of the Company to be repaid any money pursuant to Sections 9.05 and 9.06.
Section 9.02. After the 91st calendar day following the deposit referred to in Section 9.01, the Company will be deemed to have paid and will be discharged from its obligations in respect of the Notes of such series and the Indenture, other than its obligations in Article 2 and Sections 3.01, 3.02, 7.07, 7.10, and as set forth in clauses (i) through (vi) of Section 9.01; that the following conditions have been satisfied:
Legal Defeasance.
provided
(a) the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to the benefits of the holders of the Notes of such series in cash or Governmental Obligations or a combination thereof (other than moneys repaid by the Trustee or any Paying Agent to the Company in accordance with Section 9.06) in each case sufficient without reinvestment, in the written opinion of a internationally recognized firm of independent public accountants to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee to pay and discharge, all of the principal, premium (if any) and interest when the same becomes due and payable at Stated Maturity, upon optional redemption, upon required repurchase or otherwise or if the Company has made irrevocable arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the Company's name and at the Company's expense;
(b) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that, as a result of an IRS ruling or a change in applicable U.S. federal income tax law, the holders of the Notes of that series will not recognize gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit, defeasance and discharge to be effected and will be subject to the same federal income tax as would be the case if the deposit, defeasance and discharge did not occur;
(c) no Default with respect to the outstanding Notes of such series has occurred and is continuing at the time of such deposit after giving effect to the deposit or, in the case of legal defeasance, no default relating to bankruptcy or insolvency has occurred and is continuing at any time on or before the 91st calendar day after the date of such deposit, it being understood that this condition is not deemed satisfied until after the 91st calendar day;
(d) the defeasance will not cause the Trustee to have a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, assuming all Notes of such series were in default within the meaning of such Act;
 
(e) the deposit will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound;
(f) the defeasance will not result in the trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, unless the trust is registered under such Act or exempt from registration; and
(g) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, in each case stating that all conditions precedent provided for herein relating to the defeasance have been complied with.
Prior to the end of the 91 calendar day period, none of the Company's obligations under the Indenture or the Notes will be discharged. Thereafter, the Trustee upon request will acknowledge in writing the discharge of the Company's obligations under the Notes and the Indenture except for the surviving obligations specified above.
Section 9.03. After the 91st calendar day following the deposit referred to in Section 9.01, the Company's obligations set forth in Sections 3.04, 3.06, 3.09, 3.10, 3.11, 4.01 and 4.03, Parent's obligations set forth in Sections 4.02 and 4.03 and the corresponding Parent Guarantees related to such provisions will terminate and Sections 6.01(c) and (d) will no longer constitute an Event of Default; that the following conditions have been satisfied:
Covenant Defeasance.
provided
(a) the Company has complied with clauses (a), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) of Section 9.02; and
(b) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the holders of the Notes of that series will not recognize gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit and covenant defeasance to be effected and will be subject to the same federal income tax as would be the case if the deposit and covenant defeasance did not occur.
Except as specifically stated above, none of the Company's obligations under the Indenture will be discharged.
Section 9.04Subject to Section 9.06, all moneys deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 9.01 shall be held in trust and applied by it to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent), to the Holders of the particular Notes of such series for the payment or redemption of which such moneys or Governmental Obligations have been deposited with the Trustee, of all sums due and to become due thereon for principal, premium (if any) and interest. Such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
. Application by Trustee of Funds Deposited for Payment of Notes.
 
Section 9.05In connection with the satisfaction and discharge of the Indenture with respect to Notes of any series, all moneys then held by any Paying Agent under the provisions of the Indenture with respect to such series of Notes shall, upon demand of the Company, be repaid to the Company or paid to the Trustee and thereupon such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such moneys or Governmental Obligations.
. Repayment of Moneys Held by Paying Agent.
Section 9.06Any moneys or Governmental Obligations deposited with or paid to the Trustee or any Paying Agent for the payment of the principal of or premium (if any) on or interest on any Note of any series and not applied but remaining unclaimed for two years after the date upon which such principal, premium or interest shall have become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company by the Trustee for such series or such Paying Agent, and the Holder of the Note of such series shall, unless otherwise required by mandatory provisions of applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property laws, thereafter look only to the Company for any payment which such Holder may be entitled to collect, and all liability of the Trustee or any Paying Agent with respect to such moneys shall thereupon cease.
. Return of Moneys Held by Trustee and Paying Agent Unclaimed for Two Years.
Section 10.01Without the consent of any Holders, each of the Company and Parent, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders.
(i) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company herein and in the Notes;
(ii) to evidence the succession of another Person to Parent and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants, agreements and obligations of Parent herein and in the Notes and the Parent Guarantee;
(iii) to add to the covenants of the Company and Parent for the benefit of the Holders, or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company;
(iv) to add any additional Events of Default for the benefit of the Holders;
 
(v) to add, change or eliminate any provision of this Indenture applying to one or more series of Notes; that the Company deems such action necessary or advisable and that such action does not adversely affect the interests of any Holder of any series of Notes;
provided
(vi) to evidence and provide for a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes or to add to or change any provision to the extent necessary to appoint a separate Trustee for a specific series of Notes;
(vii) to cure any ambiguity or defect, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture which shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, provided that such action pursuant to this clause (iv) shall not adversely affect the rights of the Holders of any series of Notes;
(viii) to supplement any provision of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance or discharge of the Notes; that such change or modification does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Notes;
provided
(ix) add, change or eliminate any provision of this Indenture in accordance with the Trust Indenture Act; that such action does not adversely affect the interests of any Holder of Notes;
provided
(x) to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge to the Trustee as collateral security for the Notes any property or assets;
(xi) provide for the issuance of Additional Notes of any series ranking equally with the Notes of such series (other than (A) the payment of interest accruing prior to the issue date of such Additional Notes and (B) the first payment of interest following the issue date of such Additional Notes); or
(xii) make any change in the Parent Guarantee that would not adversely affect the Holders.
Section 10.02With the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of each series of Outstanding Notes under this Indenture so affected, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, each of the Company and Parent, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders under this Indenture; , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Note affected thereby,
. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders.
provided, however
(i) reduce the rate of or change the time for payment of interest on any Note;
 
(ii) reduce the Principal Amount of, or change the Stated Maturity of, any Note;
(iii) reduce the redemption price, premium of or repurchase price of any Note or amend or modify in any manner adverse to the Holders of Notes the Company's obligation to make such payments, whether through an amendment or waiver of provisions in the covenants, definitions or otherwise;
(iv) make any Note payable in money other than that stated in the Note or other than in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture;
(v) reduce the quorum or voting requirements under this Indenture;
(vi) impair the right of any Holder to receive payment of the Principal Amount of, premium (if any) on or interest on a Holder's Notes on or after the due dates therefor, including waiving any Default with respect to the payment of principal, premium or interest thereon, or to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or with respect to such Holder's Notes;
(vii) change the ranking of the Notes in a manner adverse to the Holders of the Notes;
(viii) make any change in the amendment provisions which require each Holder's consent or in the waiver provisions;
(ix) reduce the percentage in Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) or consent provided for in this Indenture;
(x) impair the right of any Holder to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on the Notes; or
(xi) modify any of the provisions of this Section 10.02 or Section 6.12, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Note affected thereby.
 
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section 10.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act approves the substance thereof.
Section 10.03In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article 10 or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, in addition to the documents required by Section 1.02, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. Subject to the preceding sentence, the Trustee shall sign such supplemental indenture if the same does not adversely affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture that adversely affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
. Execution of Supplemental Indentures.
Section 10.04. Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article 10, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Notes theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
Section 10.05Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act.
. Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.
Section 10.06Notes authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article 10 shall bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Notes so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Notes.
. Reference in Notes to Supplemental Indentures.
 
Section 11.01Parent hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to each Holder and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns:
. Parent Guarantee.
(a) the full and punctual payment of principal of, premium (if any) on and interest on the Notes when the same becomes due and payable at its Stated Maturity, upon optional redemption, upon required repurchase, upon declaration of acceleration or otherwise, and all other monetary obligations of the Company under this Indenture and the Notes; and
(b) the full and punctual performance within applicable grace periods of all other obligations of the Company under this Indenture and the Notes (all the foregoing under (a) and (b) of this Section 11.01 being hereinafter collectively called the "").
Guaranteed Obligations
Parent further agrees that the Guaranteed Obligations may be extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice or further assent from Parent and that Parent will remain bound under this Article 11 notwithstanding any extension or renewal of any Guaranteed Obligation.
Parent waives presentation to, demand of, payment from and protest to the Company of any of the Guaranteed Obligations and also waives notice of protest for nonpayment. Parent waives notice of any default under the Notes or the Guaranteed Obligations. The obligations of Parent hereunder shall not be affected by:
(i) the failure of any Holder or the Trustee to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy against the Company or any other Person under this Indenture, the Notes or any other agreement or otherwise;
(ii) any extension or renewal of any thereof;
(iii) any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of any of the terms or provisions of this Indenture, the Notes or any other agreement;
(iv) the release of any security held by any Holder or the Trustee for the obligations of any of them;
(v) the failure of any Holder or the Trustee to exercise any right or remedy against any other guarantor of the Guaranteed Obligations; or
(vi) except as set forth in Section 11.05, any change in the ownership of Parent.
 
Parent further agrees that the Parent Guarantee herein constitutes a guarantee of payment, performance and compliance when due (and not a guarantee of collection) and waives any right to require that any resort be had by any Holder or the Trustee to any security held for payment of the Guaranteed Obligations.
Except as expressly set forth in Sections 9.02 and 11.05, the obligations of Parent hereunder shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason, including any claim of waiver, release, surrender, alteration or compromise, and shall not be subject to any defense of setoff, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever or by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Guaranteed Obligations, the Indenture, the Notes or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the obligations of Parent herein shall not be discharged or impaired or otherwise affected by the failure of any Holder or the Trustee to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any remedy under this Indenture, the Notes or any other agreement, by any waiver or modification of any thereof, by any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance of the obligations, or by any other act or thing or omission or delay to do any other act or thing which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of Parent or would otherwise operate as a discharge of Parent as a matter of law or equity.
Parent further agrees that the Parent Guarantee shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of principal of or premium (if any) on or interest on any Guaranteed Obligation is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Holder or the Trustee upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of the Company or otherwise.
In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right which any Holder or the Trustee has at law or in equity against Parent by virtue hereof, upon the failure of the Company to pay the principal of or premium (if any) on or interest on any Guaranteed Obligation when or to perform or comply with any other Guaranteed Obligation, Parent hereby promises to and shall, upon receipt of written demand by the Trustee, forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, in cash, to the Holders or the Trustee an amount equal to the sum of (1) the unpaid amount of such Guaranteed Obligations, (2) accrued and unpaid interest on such Guaranteed Obligations (but only to the extent not prohibited by law) and (3) all other monetary Guaranteed Obligations of the Company to the Holders and the Trustee.
Parent further agrees that, as between it, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the Guaranteed Obligations Guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 for the purposes of the Parent Guarantee herein, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other
 
prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such Guaranteed Obligations as provided in Article 6, such Guaranteed Obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by Parent for the purposes of this Section.
Parent also agrees to pay any and all costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred by the Trustee or any Holder in enforcing any rights under this Section.
Section 11.02This Article 11 shall be binding upon Parent and its successors and assigns and shall enure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Trustee and the Holders and, in the event of any transfer or assignment of rights by any Holder or the Trustee, the rights and privileges conferred upon that party in this Indenture and in the Notes shall automatically extend to and be vested in such transferee or assignee, all subject to the terms and conditions of this Indenture.
. Successors and Assigns.
Section 11.03Neither a failure nor a delay on the part of either the Trustee or the Holders in exercising any right, power or privilege under this Article 11 shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall a single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise of any right, power or privilege. The rights, remedies and benefits of the Trustee and the Holders herein expressly specified are cumulative and not exclusive of any other rights, remedies or benefits which either may have under this Article 11 at law, in equity, by statute or otherwise.
. No Waiver.
Section 11.04No modification, amendment or waiver of any provision of this Article 11, nor the consent to any departure by Parent therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Trustee, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. No notice to or demand on Parent in any case shall entitle Parent to any other or further notice or demand in the same, similar or other circumstances.
. Modification.
Section 11.05If Parent and the Company merge with each other or consolidate together in a transaction permitted by Sections 4.01 and 4.02, then the Parent Guarantee shall automatically be terminated upon the consummation of such merger or consolidation and shall no longer have any effect from such time without any further action required on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. At the request of the Company, the Trustee shall execute and deliver an appropriate instrument evidencing such termination.
. Release of Parent Guarantor and Termination of Parent Guarantee.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
 
EXHIBIT A
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A NOTE REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (""), A NEW YORK CORPORATION, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL IN AS MUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
 
$
                        
SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY HDD HOLDINGS, an exempted limited liability company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands (the ""), which term includes any successor under the Indenture hereinafter referred to on the reverse hereof, for value received, promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or its registered assigns, the principal sum of ($) or such other amount as indicated on the Schedule of Exchange of Notes attached hereto on October 1, 2009.
Company
                                
                    
Interest Payment Dates: January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1, commencing January 1, 2007.
Record Dates: the Business Day preceding the interest payment date.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
 
This is one of the Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2009 referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated:
            
 
 
Interest
The Company promises to pay interest on the Principal Amount of this Note at the rate per annum described below. Cash interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from September 20, 2006, to but excluding the next interest payment date, except that interest accrued and unpaid at Maturity will be paid to the person to whom principal is payable at Maturity. The Company will pay interest quarterly in arrears on each interest payment date, commencing January 1, 2007, to the person in whose name the Notes are registered at the close of business on the Business Day preceding the interest payment date. Interest will be computed on the basis of the actual number of calendar days in an interest period and a 360-day year.
The Notes will bear interest for each interest period at a rate determined by the calculation agent. The calculation agent for this purpose is U.S. Bank National Association until such time as the Company appoints a successor calculation agent. The interest rate on the Notes for a particular interest period will be a per annum rate equal to three-month LIBOR as determined on the interest determination date plus 0.84%. The interest determination date for an interest period will be the second London business day preceding such interest period. Promptly upon determination, the calculation agent will inform the Trustee and the Company of the interest rate for the next interest period. Absent manifest error, the determination of the interest rate by the calculation agent shall be binding and conclusive on the Holders, the Trustee and the Company.
A London business day is a day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
On any interest determination date, LIBOR will be equal to the offered rate for deposits in U.S. dollars having an index maturity of three months, in amounts of at least $1,000,000, as such rate appears on "Telerate Page 3750" at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such interest determination date. If on an interest determination date, such rate does not appear on the "Telerate Page 3750" as of 11:00 a.m., London time, or if the "Telerate Page 3750" is not available on such date, the calculation agent will obtain such rate from Bloomberg L.P. page "BBAM."
If no offered rate appears on "Telerate Page 3750" or Bloomberg L.P. page "BBAM" on an interest determination date at approximately 11:00 a.m.,
 
London time, then the calculation agent (after consultation with the Company) will select four major banks in the London interbank market and shall request each of their principal London offices to provide a quotation of the rate at which three-month deposits in U.S. dollars in amounts of at least $1,000,000 are offered by it to prime banks in the London interbank market, on that date and at that time, that is representative of single transactions at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic average of the quotations provided. Otherwise, the calculation agent will select three major banks in New York City and shall request each of them to provide a quotation of the rate offered by them at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the interest determination date for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks having an index maturity of three months for the applicable interest period in an amount of at least $1,000,000 that is representative of single transactions at that time. If three quotations are provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic average of the quotations provided. Otherwise, the rate of LIBOR for the next interest period will be set equal to the rate of LIBOR for the then current interest period.
Upon request from any Holder, the calculation agent will provide the interest rate in effect on the Notes for the current interest period and, if it has been determined, the interest rate to be in effect for the next interest period.
Dollar amounts resulting from such calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward.
Interest on the Notes will accrue from September 20, 2006, or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or provided for; that if an interest payment date for the Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the interest payment date shall be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would be in the following month, in which case, the interest payment date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. Interest on the Notes will be paid to but excluding the relevant interest payment date.
provided
Paying Agent
Initially, U.S. Bank National Association (the "") will act as Paying Agent. The Company may change any Paying Agent without notice to the Holders.
Trustee
Indenture; Defined Terms
This Note is one of the Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2009 (the "") issued under an Indenture, dated as of September 20, 2006, between the Company as issuer, Seagate Technology as guarantor and the Trustee (the "").
Notes
Indenture
 
Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms herein are used as defined in the Indenture. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. Sections 77aaa-77bbbb) (the ""), as in effect on the date of the Indenture until such time as the Indenture is qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, and thereafter as in effect on the date on which the Indenture is qualified under the Trust Indenture Act. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Notes are subject to all such terms, and holders of Notes are referred to the Indenture and the Trust Indenture Act for a statement of them. To the extent the terms of the Indenture and this Note are inconsistent, the terms of the Indenture shall govern.
Trust Indenture Act
Denominations; Transfer; Exchange
The Notes are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. A Holder shall register the transfer or exchange of Notes in accordance with the Indenture.
Amendment; Supplement; Waiver
Subject to certain exceptions, the Notes and the provisions of the Indenture relating to the Notes may be amended or supplemented and any existing default or Event of Default or compliance with certain provisions may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of all series of Outstanding Notes under the Indenture that are affected by such amendment, supplement or waiver. Without notice to or consent of any Holder, the parties thereto may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or comply with any requirements of the Commission in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA, or make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder of a Note.
Defaults and Remedies
If an Event of Default (other than certain bankruptcy Events of Default with respect to the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries) under the Indenture occurs with respect to the Notes and is continuing, then the Trustee may and, at the direction of the Holders of at least 25% in Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes, shall by written notice, require the Company to repay immediately the entire Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes, together with all accrued and unpaid interest. If a bankruptcy Event of Default with respect to the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries occurs and is continuing, then the entire Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes will automatically become due immediately and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Holders of Notes may not enforce the Indenture or the
 
Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee is not obligated to enforce the Indenture or the Notes unless it has received indemnity as it reasonably requires. The Indenture permits, subject to certain limitations therein provided, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding to direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of Notes notice of certain continuing defaults or Events of Default if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest.
Authentication
This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on this Note.
Abbreviations and Defined Terms
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder of a Note or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
CUSIP Numbers
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes as a convenience to the Holders of the Notes. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers as printed on the Notes and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed hereon.
Governing Law
The laws of the State of New York shall govern the Indenture and this Note.
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to
 
 
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                    
 
Signature
 
Sign exactly as your name on the other side of this Note.
appears
The signature(s) should be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution (banks, stockbrokers, savings and loan associations and credit unions with membership in an approved signature guarantee medallion program), pursuant to S.E.C. Rule 17Ad-15.
 
Signature Guarantee:
The signature(s) should be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution (banks, stockbrokers, savings and loan associations and credit unions with membership in an approved signature guarantee medallion program), pursuant to SEC Rule 17Ad-15.
 
The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
 
 
EXHIBIT B
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A NOTE REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (""), A NEW YORK CORPORATION, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL IN AS MUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
 
$
    
                    
SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY HDD HOLDINGS, an exempted limited liability company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands (the ""), which term includes any successor under the Indenture hereinafter referred to on the reverse hereof, for value received, promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or its registered assigns, the principal sum of ($ ) or such other amount as indicated on the Schedule of Exchange of Notes attached hereto on October 1, 2011.
Company
                                             
                    
Interest Rate: 6.375% per annum
Interest Payment Dates: April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing April 1, 2007.
 
Record Dates: March 15 and September 15.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
 
This is one of the 6.375% Senior Notes due 2011 referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: __________
 
 
Interest
The Company promises to pay interest on the Principal Amount of this Note at the rate per annum described above. Cash interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from September 20, 2006, to but excluding the next interest payment date. The Company will pay interest semi-annually in arrears on each interest payment date, commencing April 1, 2007, to the person in whose name the Notes are registered at the close of business on the immediately preceding Record Date. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
If an interest payment for the Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the interest payment shall be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from and after such interest payment date.
Redemption of Notes at the Option of the Company
The Notes are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the Principal Amount to be redeemed and (b) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments on such Notes discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points (the "") upon delivery of the Notes to the Paying Agent by the Holder as set forth in the Indenture. The Redemption Price will be paid in cash.
Redemption Price
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 calendar days but not more than 60 calendar days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed. Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected pro rata or by lot or by any other method the Trustee considers fair and appropriate.
 
Paying Agent
Initially, U.S. Bank, National Association (the "") will act as Paying Agent. The Company may change any Paying Agent without notice to the Holders.
Trustee
Indenture; Defined Terms
This Note is one of the 6.375% Senior Notes due 2011 (the "") issued under an Indenture, dated as of September 20, 2006, between the Company as issuer, Seagate Technology as guarantor and the Trustee (the "").
Notes
Indenture
Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms herein are used as defined in the Indenture. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. Sections 77aaa-77bbbb) (the ""), as in effect on the date of the Indenture until such time as the Indenture is qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, and thereafter as in effect on the date on which the Indenture is qualified under the Trust Indenture Act. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Notes are subject to all such terms, and holders of Notes are referred to the Indenture and the Trust Indenture Act for a statement of them. To the extent the terms of the Indenture and this Note are inconsistent, the terms of the Indenture shall govern.
Trust Indenture Act
Denominations; Transfer; Exchange
The Notes are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. A Holder shall register the transfer or exchange of Notes in accordance with the Indenture.
Amendment; Supplement; Waiver
Subject to certain exceptions, the Notes and the provisions of the Indenture relating to the Notes may be amended or supplemented and any existing default or Event of Default or compliance with certain provisions may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of all series of Outstanding Notes under the Indenture that are affected by such amendment, supplement or waiver. Without notice to or consent of any Holder, the parties thereto may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or comply with any requirements of the Commission in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA, or make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder of a Note.
 
Defaults and Remedies
If an Event of Default (other than certain bankruptcy Events of Default with respect to the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries) under the Indenture occurs with respect to the Notes and is continuing, then the Trustee may and, at the direction of the Holders of at least 25% in Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes, shall by written notice, require the Company to repay immediately the entire Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes, together with all accrued and unpaid interest. If a bankruptcy Event of Default with respect to the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries occurs and is continuing, then the entire Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes will automatically become due immediately and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Holders of Notes may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee is not obligated to enforce the Indenture or the Notes unless it has received indemnity as it reasonably requires. The Indenture permits, subject to certain limitations therein provided, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding to direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of Notes notice of certain continuing defaults or Events of Default if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest.
Authentication
This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on this Note.
Abbreviations and Defined Terms
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder of a Note or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
CUSIP Numbers
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes as a convenience to the Holders of the Notes. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers as printed on the Notes and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed hereon.
Governing Law
The laws of the State of New York shall govern the Indenture and this Note.
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to
 
 
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                    
 
Signature
 
Sign exactly as your name on the other side of this Note.
appears
The signature(s) should be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution (banks, stockbrokers, savings and loan associations and credit unions with membership in an approved signature guarantee medallion program), pursuant to S.E.C. Rule 17Ad-15.
 
Signature Guarantee:
The signature(s) should be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution (banks, stockbrokers, savings and loan associations and credit unions with membership in an approved signature guarantee medallion program), pursuant to SEC Rule 17Ad-15.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT C
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A NOTE REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (""), A NEW YORK CORPORATION, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL IN AS MUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
 
$
                        
SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY HDD HOLDINGS, an exempted limited liability company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands (the ""), which term includes any successor under the Indenture hereinafter referred to on the reverse hereof, for value received, promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or its registered assigns, the principal sum of ($ ) or such other amount as indicated on the Schedule of Exchange of Notes attached hereto on October 1, 2016.
Company
                                             
                    
Interest Rate: 6.800% per annum
Interest Payment Dates: April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing April 1, 2007.
 
Record Dates: March 15 and September 15.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
 
This is one of the 6.800% Senior Notes due 2016 referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: __________
 
 
Interest
The Company promises to pay interest on the Principal Amount of this Note at the rate per annum described above. Cash interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from September 20, 2006, to but excluding the next interest payment date. The Company will pay interest semi-annually in arrears on each interest payment date, commencing April 1, 2007, to the person in whose name the Notes are registered at the close of business on the immediately preceding Record Date. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
If an interest payment for the Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the interest payment shall be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from and after such interest payment date.
Redemption of Notes at the Option of the Company
The Notes are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the Principal Amount to be redeemed and (b) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments on such Notes discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points (the "") upon delivery of the Notes to the Paying Agent by the Holder as set forth in the Indenture. The Redemption Price will be paid in cash.
Redemption Price
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 calendar days but not more than 60 calendar days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed. Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected pro rata or by lot or by any other method the Trustee considers fair and appropriate.
 
Paying Agent
Initially, U.S. Bank, National Association (the "") will act as Paying Agent. The Company may change any Paying Agent without notice to the Holders.
Trustee
Indenture; Defined Terms
This Note is one of the 6.800% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "") issued under an Indenture, dated as of September 20, 2006, between the Company as issuer, Seagate Technology as guarantor and the Trustee (the "").
Notes
Indenture
Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms herein are used as defined in the Indenture. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. Sections 77aaa-77bbbb) (the ""), as in effect on the date of the Indenture until such time as the Indenture is qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, and thereafter as in effect on the date on which the Indenture is qualified under the Trust Indenture Act. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Notes are subject to all such terms, and holders of Notes are referred to the Indenture and the Trust Indenture Act for a statement of them. To the extent the terms of the Indenture and this Note are inconsistent, the terms of the Indenture shall govern.
Trust Indenture Act
Denominations; Transfer; Exchange
The Notes are in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. A Holder shall register the transfer or exchange of Notes in accordance with the Indenture.
Amendment; Supplement; Waiver
Subject to certain exceptions, the Notes and the provisions of the Indenture relating to the Notes may be amended or supplemented and any existing default or Event of Default or compliance with certain provisions may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of all series of Outstanding Notes under the Indenture that are affected by such amendment, supplement or waiver. Without notice to or consent of any Holder, the parties thereto may amend or supplement the Indenture and the Notes to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency or comply with any requirements of the Commission in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA, or make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder of a Note.
 
Defaults and Remedies
If an Event of Default (other than certain bankruptcy Events of Default with respect to the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries) under the Indenture occurs with respect to the Notes and is continuing, then the Trustee may and, at the direction of the Holders of at least 25% in Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes, shall by written notice, require the Company to repay immediately the entire Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes, together with all accrued and unpaid interest. If a bankruptcy Event of Default with respect to the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries occurs and is continuing, then the entire Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes will automatically become due immediately and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Holders of Notes may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee is not obligated to enforce the Indenture or the Notes unless it has received indemnity as it reasonably requires. The Indenture permits, subject to certain limitations therein provided, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding to direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of Notes notice of certain continuing defaults or Events of Default if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest.
Authentication
This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on this Note.
Abbreviations and Defined Terms
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder of a Note or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
CUSIP Numbers
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes as a convenience to the Holders of the Notes. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers as printed on the Notes and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed hereon.
Governing Law
The laws of the State of New York shall govern the Indenture and this Note.
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to
 
 
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                    
 
Signature
 
Sign exactly as your name on the other side of this Note.
appears
The signature(s) should be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution (banks, stockbrokers, savings and loan associations and credit unions with membership in an approved signature guarantee medallion program), pursuant to S.E.C. Rule 17Ad-15.
 
Signature Guarantee:
The signature(s) should be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution (banks, stockbrokers, savings and loan associations and credit unions with membership in an approved signature guarantee medallion program), pursuant to SEC Rule 17Ad-15.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
:
SCHEDULES
Schedule 2.01  Commitments
Schedule 3.06  Disclosed Matters
Schedule 3.12  Subsidiaries
Schedule 6.01  Existing Indebtedness
Schedule 6.02  Existing Liens
Schedule 6.09  Existing Restrictions
:
EXHIBITS
Exhibit A  Form of Assignment and Acceptance
Exhibit B-1A  Form of Opinion of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
Exhibit B-1B  Form of Opinion of William L. Hudson
Exhibit B-2  Form of Opinion of Maples and Calder
Exhibit C  Form of Guarantee Agreement
AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of September 19, 2006 (this ""), among SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, an exempted limited liability company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands (""), SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY HDD HOLDINGS, an exempted limited liability company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands (the ""), the LENDERS party hereto and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Intermediate Holdings
Borrower
Intermediate Holdings, Borrower, the lenders named therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, are parties to Credit Agreement dated as of November 22, 2005 (as heretofore modified and supplemented and in effect on the date hereof immediately before giving effect to the amendment and restatement contemplated hereby, the ""). Pursuant to the Existing Credit Agreement, certain of the Lenders party hereto have committed to extend credit (by means of loans and letters of credit) in an aggregate principal or face amount of up to $100,000,000. The parties hereto now wish to increase the credit available to the Borrower to $500,000,000 and to make certain other amendments to the Existing Credit Agreement and, as so amended, to restate the Existing Credit Agreement in its entirety. Accordingly, the parties hereto agree that the Existing Credit Agreement shall, as of the Restatement Effective Date (the occurrence of which is subject to satisfaction of the conditions precedent specified in Section 4.01), be amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
Existing Credit Agreement
SECTION 1.01. As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms.
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.20.
Additional Lender
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder, and its successors in such capacity as provided in Article VIII.
Administrative Agent
"" means an administrative questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no individual shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of a Person solely by reason of his or her being an officer or director of such Person.
Affiliate
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble to this Agreement.
Agreement
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 
Alternate Base Rate
 1
/
2
of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
"" means any currency that is freely available, freely transferable and freely convertible into dollars and in which dealings in deposits are carried on in the New York, London or Tokyo interbank markets, that such currency is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the applicable Issuing Bank.
Alternative Currency
provided
"" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate undrawn and unexpired amount of all outstanding Alternative Currency Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate principal amount of all LC Disbursements in respect of Alternative Currency Letters of Credit that have not yet been reimbursed at such time.
Alternative Currency LC Exposure
"" means a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency.
Alternative Currency Letter of Credit
"" means, for any day, with respect to any Eurodollar Loan or ABR Loan or with respect to the commitment fees payable hereunder, as the case may be, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "Eurodollar Spread", "ABR Spread" or "Commitment Fee Rate", as the case may be, based upon the ratings by Moody's and S&P, respectively, applicable on such date to the Index Debt:
Applicable Margin
 
 
For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if either Moody's or S&P shall not have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the last sentence of this paragraph or the next succeeding paragraph of this definition), then such rating agency shall be deemed to have established a rating in Category 6, (b) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall fall within different Categories, the Applicable Margin shall be based on the higher of the two ratings unless one of the two ratings is two or more Categories lower than the other, in which case the Applicable Margin shall be determined by reference to the Category next below that of the higher of the two ratings, and (c) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's or S&P), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency, irrespective of when notice of such change shall have been furnished by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Section 5.01 or otherwise. Each change in the Applicable Margin shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of Moody's or S&P shall change, or if either such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, the Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Margin shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time after the date that is 180 days after the Restatement Effective Date, the Borrower shall have the option, solely for purposes of determining the Applicable Margin, to substitute, effective on the date specified for such substitution in the notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant to the immediately succeeding sentence (which shall be a Business Day), Fitch for either S&P or Moody's (but not both S&P and Moody's). To exercise such option, the Borrower must give written notice of such election to the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, at least three Business Days prior to the proposed effective date of such election. Such notice must specify (i) whether Fitch is to be substituted for
 
Moody's or for S&P and (ii) the effective date of such election. On and after the effective date of such election by the Borrower, (A) each reference under the heading "Index Debt Rating" in the table set forth in the first paragraph of this definition to ratings by S&P or Moody's, as applicable, shall, solely for purposes of determining the Applicable Margin, be deemed to refer to the corresponding rating of the Index Date by Fitch as set forth below:
 
and (B) each reference in the preceding paragraphs of this definition to S&P or Moody's, as applicable, shall be deemed to be a reference to Fitch.
"" means, at any time with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the aggregate Revolving Commitments represented by such Lender's Revolving Commitment at such time. If the Revolving Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Revolving Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments after such termination or expiration.
Applicable Percentage
"" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of Exhibit A or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Acceptance
"" means the period from and including the Restatement Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Maturity Date and the date of termination of the Commitments.
Availability Period
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble to this Agreement.
Borrower
"" means (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect, or (b) a Swingline Loan.
Borrowing
"" means a request by the Borrower for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
Borrowing Request
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed, that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market.
Business Day
provided
"" means (a) the last Business Day of each calendar month and (b) if on the last Business Day of any calendar week the total Revolving Exposures exceed 75% of the total Revolving Commitments (giving effect to any reductions in the Revolving Commitments scheduled to occur on such day), such Business Day.
Calculation Date
"" means, for any period, without duplication, (a) the additions to property, plant and equipment and other capital expenditures of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries that are (or would be) set forth in a consolidated statement of cash flows of Intermediate Holdings for such period prepared in accordance with GAAP and (b) Capital Lease Obligations incurred by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries during such period, that the term "Capital Expenditures" (i) shall be net of landlord construction allowances, (ii) shall not include expenditures to the extent they are made with the proceeds of the issuance of Equity Interests of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the Initial Effective Date, (iii) shall not include expenditures of proceeds of insurance settlements, condemnation awards and other settlements in respect of lost, destroyed, damaged or condemned assets, equipment or other property to the extent such expenditures are made to replace or repair such lost, destroyed, damaged or condemned assets, equipment or other property or otherwise to acquire properties useful in the business of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary within 365 days of receipt of such proceeds, (iv) shall not include the purchase price of equipment to the extent the consideration therefor consists of used or surplus equipment being traded in at such time or the proceeds of a concurrent sale of such used or surplus equipment, in each case in the ordinary course of business, and (v) shall not include expenditures to the extent they are made with the proceeds of sales of assets outside the ordinary course of business that are permitted by Section 6.05.
Capital Expenditures
provided
"" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are
Capital Lease Obligations
 
required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
"" means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C.  9601 et seq.
CERCLA
"" means:
Change in Control
(a) the acquisition of direct ownership, beneficially or of record, by any Person other than Intermediate Holdings of any Equity Interests in the Borrower;
(b) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the SEC thereunder as in effect on the date hereof), of Equity Interests in Intermediate Holdings representing greater than 35% of the aggregate ordinary voting power and aggregate equity value represented by the issued and outstanding Equity Interests in Intermediate Holdings;
(c) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by at least a majority of the board of directors of Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower, as applicable, nor (ii) appointed by a vote of a majority of directors so nominated; or
(d) the occurrence of a "Change in Control" as defined in the Senior Note Documents or any document governing or evidencing any extension, renewal, refinancing or replacement of the Senior Notes permitted pursuant to Section 6.01(a)(ii).
"" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender or the Issuing Bank (or, for purposes of Section 2.14(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement.
Change in Law
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans or Swingline Loans and, when used in reference to any Commitment, refers to whether such Commitment is a Revolving Commitment or Swingline Commitment.
Class
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
 
"" means (a) with respect to any Lender, such Lender's Revolving Commitment or commitment in respect of any Revolving Commitment Increases and (b) with respect to the Swingline Lender, its Swingline Commitment.
Commitment
"" means, for any period, the excess of (a) the sum of (i) the interest expense (including imputed interest expense in respect of Capital Lease Obligations and the implied interest in respect of Permitted Receivables Financings) of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, (ii) any interest accrued during such period in respect of Indebtedness of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary that is required to be capitalized rather than included in consolidated interest expense for such period in accordance with GAAP, (iii) any cash payments made during such period in respect of obligations referred to in clause (b)(ii) below that were amortized or accrued in a previous period, (iv) to the extent not otherwise included, commissions, discounts, yields and other fees, charges and amounts incurred in connection with any Permitted Receivables Financing during such period that are payable to any Person other than Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any other amounts for such period that are comparable to or in the nature of interest under any Permitted Receivables Financing (including losses on the sale of assets relating to any Permitted Receivables Financing accounted for as a "true sale"), (b) the sum of (i) to the extent included in such consolidated interest expense for such period, non-cash amounts attributable to amortization of financing costs paid in a previous period, (ii) to the extent included in such consolidated interest expense for such period, non-cash amounts attributable to amortization of debt discounts or accrued interest or dividends payable in kind for such period.
Consolidated Cash Interest Expense
plus
plus
plus
minus
plus
"" means, for any period, Consolidated Net Income for such period (a) without duplication and to the extent deducted in determining such Consolidated Net Income, the sum of (i) consolidated interest expense for such period (including, to the extent not otherwise included in consolidated interest expense for such period, commissions, discounts, yields and other fees, charges and amounts incurred during such period in connection with any Permitted Receivables Financing that are payable to any Person other than Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any other amounts for such period comparable to or in the nature of interest under any Permitted Receivables Financing (including losses on the sale of assets relating to any Permitted Receivables Financing accounted for as a "true sale")), (ii) consolidated income tax expense for such period, (iii) all amounts attributable to depreciation and amortization for such period, (iv) all extraordinary charges during such period, (v) non-cash expenses during such period resulting from (A) the grant of stock or stock options to management and employees of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or (B) the treatment of such options under variable plan accounting, (vi) the aggregate amount of deferred financing expenses for such period, (vii) all other non-cash charges, non-cash expenses or non-cash losses of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary for such period (excluding any such charge, expense or loss incurred in the ordinary course of business that constitutes an accrual of or a reserve for cash charges for any future period); , , that cash payments made in such period or in any future period (other than payments made under the terms of the Deferred
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
provided
however
 
Compensation Plans to, or for the benefit of, participants in such Deferred Compensation Plans) in respect of such non-cash charges, expenses or losses (excluding any such charge, expense or loss incurred in the ordinary course of business that constitutes an accrual of or a reserve for cash charges for any future period) shall be subtracted from Consolidated Net Income in calculating Consolidated EBITDA in the period when such payments are made, and (viii) any non-recurring fees, expenses or charges realized by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary for such period related to any offering of Equity Interests or incurrence of Indebtedness permitted to be issued or incurred under Section 6.01 (whether or not successful) or any acquisitions or dispositions by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary permitted hereunder and fees, expenses and charges related to the execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents by Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower, and (b) without duplication and to the extent included in determining such Consolidated Net Income, (i) any extraordinary gains for such period, (ii) interest income for such period and (iii) all non-cash items increasing Consolidated Net Income for such period (excluding any items that represent the reversal of any accrual of, or cash reserve for, anticipated cash charges in any prior period that are described in the parenthetical to clause (a)(vii) above), all determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. For purposes of calculating the Net Leverage Ratio or the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio as of any date, if Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary has made any Material Acquisition permitted by Section 6.04 or any Material Sale outside of the ordinary course of business permitted by Section 6.05 during the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the date on which the most recent fiscal quarter ended, Consolidated EBITDA for the relevant period for testing compliance shall be calculated after giving pro forma effect thereto, as if such Material Acquisition or Material Sale outside of the ordinary course of business (and any related incurrence, repayment or assumption of Indebtedness with any new Indebtedness being deemed to be amortized over the applicable testing period in accordance with its terms) had occurred on the first day of the relevant period for testing compliance. Any pro forma calculations pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence shall be determined in good faith by a Financial Officer of the Borrower and may include adjustments (A) for all purposes under this Agreement, for operating expense reductions that would be permitted pursuant to Article XI of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or (B) for all purposes under this Agreement other than for purposes of determining whether any acquisition complies with clause (p)(i)(B) of Section 6.04, to eliminate the actual, historical operating expenses attributable to any lease or other contract, any personnel or any facility as a direct result of the termination of such lease or other contract, the termination of such personnel or the closing of such facility, in each case only if such termination or closing has been effected within three months after an acquisition in connection with such acquisition, that the Borrower's calculation of such adjustments is set forth in a certificate signed by a Financial Officer of the Borrower.
minus
provided
"" means, for any period, the sum of (a) Consolidated Cash Interest Expense for such period and (b) Capital Expenditures for such period. For purposes of calculating compliance with Section 6.11, as of any date, if Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary has made any Material Acquisition permitted by Section 6.04 or any Material Sale outside of the ordinary course
Consolidated Fixed Charges
 
of business permitted by Section 6.05 during the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the date on which the most recent fiscal quarter ended, Consolidated Fixed Charges for the relevant period for testing compliance shall be calculated after giving pro forma effect thereto, as if such acquisition or sale, transfer, lease or other disposition of assets outside of the ordinary course of business (and any related incurrence, repayment or assumption of Indebtedness with any new Indebtedness being deemed to be amortized over the applicable testing period in accordance with its terms) had occurred on the first day of the relevant period for testing compliance.
"" means, for any period, the net income or loss of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, that, except as otherwise provided in the definition of Consolidated EBITDA with respect to the calculation of the Net Leverage Ratio or the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, there shall be excluded from such net income or loss (a) the income of any Person (that is not a Subsidiary) in which any other Person (other than Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any director holding qualifying shares in compliance with applicable law) owns an Equity Interest, except to the extent of the amount of dividends or other distributions actually paid to Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary by such Person during such period, and (b) the income or loss of any Person accrued prior to the date on which it becomes a Subsidiary or is merged into or consolidated with Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or the date on which such Person's assets are acquired by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
Consolidated Net Income
provided
"" means, as of any date, the total assets of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries on such date determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Total Assets
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means (a) the deferred compensation plan dated as of January 1, 2002, of the Borrower (as amended, waived, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time), (b) any other plan established in lieu of, or to renew or replace, in whole or in part, any plan referred to in clause (a) above or this clause (b) and (c) any Guarantee by Intermediate Holdings or any Subsidiary of any obligation under any Deferred Compensation Plan referred to in clause (a) or (b) above.
Deferred Compensation Plans
"" means the actions, suits and proceedings and the environmental matters disclosed in Schedule 3.06.
Disclosed Matters
 
"" means, on any date of determination, (a) for the purposes of determining compliance with Article VI or the existence of an Event of Default under Article VII, with respect to any amount denominated in a currency other than dollars, the equivalent in dollars of such amount, determined in good faith by the Borrower in a manner consistent with the way such amount is or would be reflected on the audited consolidated financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) for the fiscal year in which such determination is made, and (b) for the purposes of Article II, with respect to any amount denominated in an Alternative Currency, the equivalent in dollars of such amount, determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 1.05(a) using the applicable Exchange Rate with respect to such Alternative Currency.
Dollar Equivalent
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
dollars
$
"" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by or with any Governmental Authority, relating to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources or the presence, management, Release or threatened Release of any Hazardous Material.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liabilities, obligations, damages, claims, actions, suits, judgments or orders, contingent or otherwise (including any costs of environmental remediation, administrative oversight costs, fines, penalties or indemnities), of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary resulting from or relating to (a) the non-compliance with any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the Release or threatened Release of any Hazardous Materials or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person.
Equity Interests
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived), (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), and, on and after the effectiveness of the Pension
ERISA Event
 
Act, any failure by any Plan to satisfy the minimum funding standards (within the meaning of Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA) applicable to such Plan whether or not waived, (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412 of the Code or Section 303 of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan, (d) the incurrence by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan, (e) on and after the effectiveness of the Pension Act, a determination that any Plan is, or is expected to be, in "at-risk" status (within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA); (f) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan under Section 4042 of ERISA, (g) the incurrence by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or (h) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent, in reorganization or in endangered or critical status, within the meaning of Section 305 or Title IV of ERISA, as applicable.
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
Eurodollar
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 7.01.
Event of Default
"" means, on any day, with respect to any Alternative Currency, the rate at which such Alternative Currency may be exchanged into dollars, as set forth at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on such day on the applicable Reuters World Spot Page. In the event that any such rate does not appear on any Reuters World Spot Page, the Exchange Rate shall be determined by reference to such other publicly available service for displaying exchange rates reasonably selected by the Administrative Agent in consultation with the Borrower for such purpose or, at the discretion of the Administrative Agent in consultation with the Borrower, such Exchange Rate shall instead be the arithmetic average of the spot rates of exchange of the Administrative Agent in the market where its foreign currency exchange operations in respect of such Alternative Currency are then being conducted, at or about 10:00 a.m., local time, on such day for the purchase of the applicable Alternative Currency for delivery two Business Days later, that, if at the time of any such determination, for any reason, no such spot rate is being quoted, the Administrative Agent may use any other reasonable method it deems appropriate to determine such rate, and such determination shall be presumed correct absent manifest error.
Exchange Rate
provided
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the Issuing Bank or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes (i) imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal
Excluded Taxes
 
office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, or (ii) as a result of a present or former connection between such recipient and the jurisdiction of the Governmental Authority imposing such tax or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein (other than any such connection arising solely from such Lender's, Issuing Bank's or any other recipient's having executed, delivered or performed its obligations or received a payment under, or enforced, any Loan Document), (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction described in clause (a) above and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under Section 2.18(b)), any withholding tax that (i) is in effect and would apply to amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to any withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.16(a), or (ii) is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.16(e).
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble to this Agreement.
Existing Credit Agreement
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or controller of Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower, as the case may be.
Financial Officer
"" means Fitch Ratings, a subsidiary of Fimilac, S.A., and its successors.
Fitch
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 6.11.
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located.
Foreign Lender
"" means, as of any date, the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries outstanding as of such date, in the amount that would be reflected on a balance sheet prepared as of such date on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, (b) without duplication, the aggregate amount of any Guarantee by Intermediate
Funded Indebtedness
 
Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary of any such Indebtedness of any other Person and (c) without duplication, the principal amount of any Permitted Receivables Financing as of such date.
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" of or by any Person (the "") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation, that the term "Guarantee" shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
provided
"" means the Amended and Restated Guarantee Agreement dated as of the Restatement Effective Date, substantially in the form of Exhibit C, between Intermediate Holdings and the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders.
Guarantee Agreement
"" means all explosive, radioactive, hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes, and all substances or wastes regulated pursuant to any applicable Environmental Law, including any material listed as a hazardous substance under Section 101(14) of CERCLA.
Hazardous Materials
"" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person upon which interest charges are customarily paid, (d) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (e) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred
Indebtedness
 
purchase price of property or services (excluding current accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business and any earn-out obligation until such obligation becomes a liability on the balance sheet of such Person in accordance with GAAP), (f) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed, (g) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (h) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (i) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and letters of guaranty, (j) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances and (k) the amount of all Permitted Receivables Financings of such Person. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this paragraph, the term "Indebtedness" shall not include (i) obligations under Swap Agreements, (ii) agreements providing for indemnification, purchase price adjustments or similar obligations incurred or assumed in connection with the acquisition or disposition of assets or stock or (iii) liabilities incurred under the Deferred Compensation Plans.
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term debt.
Index Debt
"" means the "Effective Date" as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement.
Initial Effective Date
"" means a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.07.
Interest Election Request
"" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan (other than a Swingline Loan), the last day of each March, June, September and December, (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period, and (c) with respect to any Swingline Loan, the day that such Loan is required to be repaid.
Interest Payment Date
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months (or, with the consent of each Lender, nine or twelve months) thereafter, as the Borrower may elect, that (a) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such
Interest Period
provided
 
Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (b) any Interest Period that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and, in the case of a Revolving Borrowing, thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble to this Agreement.
Intermediate Holdings
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 6.04.
Investment
"" means any period (a) commencing on the first day on which (x) the Index Debt has Investment Grade Ratings and (y) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and (b) ending on the date on which the Index Debt no longer has Investment Grade Ratings.
Investment Grade Period
"" means that the Index Debt is rated both (a) BBB- (or, for purposes of Section 6.05, BBB) or better by S&P and (b) Baa3 (or, for purposes of Section 6.05, Baa2) or better by Moody's, that solely for purposes of determining the Permitted Priority Debt Amount, "Investment Grade Ratings" means that the Index Debt is rated either BBB- or better by S&P or Baa3 or better by Moody's.
Investment Grade Ratings
provided
"" means, as the context may require, (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it, (b) The Bank of Nova Scotia, with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it, (c) Bank of America, with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it, and (d) any other Lender that becomes an Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.05(l), with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it, and, in each case, its successors in such capacity as provided in Section 2.05(i). The Issuing Bank may, in its discretion, arrange for one or more Letters of Credit to be issued by Affiliates of the Issuing Bank, in which case the term "Issuing Bank" shall include any such Affiliate with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Affiliate.
Issuing Bank
"" means a payment made by the Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit.
LC Disbursement
"" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn and unexpired amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit denominated in dollars at such time (b) the aggregate amount of all LC Disbursements that were made in dollars and that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrower at such time (c) the Alternative Currency LC Exposure at such time. The LC Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total LC Exposure at such time.
LC Exposure
plus
plus
"" means, (a) with respect to any Lender, (i) an Affiliate of such Lender or (ii) an entity (whether a corporation, partnership, trust or otherwise) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and is administered or
Lender Affiliate
 
managed by such Lender or an Affiliate of such Lender and (b) with respect to any Lender that is a fund that invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit, any other fund that invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit and is managed by the same investment advisor as such Lender or by an Affiliate of such investment advisor.
"" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to Section 9.04 or Section 2.20, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to Section 9.04. Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Lenders" includes the Swingline Lender.
Lenders
"" means any letter of credit issued pursuant to this Agreement (including each letter of credit issued under the Existing Credit Agreement and outstanding on the Restatement Effective Date).
Letter of Credit
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Page 3750 of the Dow Jones Market Service (or on any successor or substitute page of such service, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
LIBO Rate
"" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset and (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset.
Lien
"" means, as of any date, the amount equal to (a) the aggregate amount of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments that would be reflected as cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments on a consolidated balance sheet of Intermediate Holdings, prepared in accordance with GAAP, held by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries (other than the SPE Subsidiaries) on such date, (b) the aggregate principal amount of Loans outstanding on such date.
Liquidity Amount
minus
"" means this Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, any Revolving Increase Amendment and the Promissory Notes.
Loan Documents
 
"" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement, including Swingline Loans.
Loans
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, operations, properties or financial condition of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (b) the ability of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower to perform their obligations under the Loan Documents or (c) any material rights of or benefits available to the Lenders under the Loan Documents.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans and Letters of Credit), or obligations in respect of one or more Swap Agreements, of any one or more of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $50,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the "principal amount" of the obligations of any Person in respect of any Swap Agreement at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that such Person would be required to pay if such Swap Agreement were terminated at such time.
Material Indebtedness
"" means, at any time, any acquisition (whether by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary that is permitted hereunder and for which the sum (without duplication) of all consideration paid or otherwise delivered by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries in connection with such acquisition (including the principal amount of any Indebtedness issued as deferred purchase price and the fair market value, determined reasonably and in good faith by the Borrower, of any other non-cash consideration, including Equity Interests in Intermediate Holdings or any Subsidiary) plus the aggregate principal amount of all Indebtedness otherwise incurred or assumed by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary in connection with such acquisition (including Indebtedness of any acquired Person outstanding at the time of such acquisition) exceeds the amount that is equal to 5% of Consolidated Total Assets as of the end of the fiscal year of Intermediate Holdings most recently ended at or prior to such time.
Material Acquisition
"" means, at any time, any sale, transfer or other disposition of any property or asset of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary that is permitted hereunder and for which all consideration paid or otherwise delivered to Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries in connection with such sale, transfer or other disposition (including the principal amount of any Indebtedness issued as deferred purchase price and the fair market value, determined reasonably and in good faith by the Borrower, of any other non-cash consideration, including Equity Interests) plus the aggregate principal amount of all Indebtedness of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries assumed by the purchaser of such property or asset in connection with such sale (including Indebtedness of any Person sold, transferred or disposed of by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary that is assumed by the purchaser of such Person in connection with such sale) exceeds the amount that is equal to 5% of Consolidated Total Assets as of the end of the fiscal year of Intermediate Holdings most recently ended at or prior to such time.
Material Sale
 
"" means September 19, 2011, or, if such day is not a Business Day, the Business Day immediately preceding such day.
Maturity Date
"" means Maxtor Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
Maxtor
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and its successors.
Moody's
"" means Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc.
MSSF
"" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means, on any date, the ratio of (a) the excess of (i) Funded Indebtedness as of such date over (ii) the sum of (A) the amount of cash held by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary and (B) the carrying value of Permitted Investments that would be reflected as cash or short-term investments on a consolidated balance sheet of Intermediate Holdings on such date to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of Intermediate Holdings ended on such date (or, if such date is not the last day of a fiscal quarter, ended on the last day of the fiscal quarter of Intermediate Holdings most recently ended prior to such date).
Net Leverage Ratio
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.02(b).
Non-Consenting Lender
"" means any period of time other than an Investment Grade Period.
Non-Investment Grade Period
"" means any and all current or future recording, stamp, documentary, excise, transfer, sales, property or similar taxes, charges or levies arising from any payment made under any Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, any Loan Document.
Other Taxes
"" means any same-day overdraft facility extended by a bank or other lending institution to Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
Overdraft Facility
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04(e).
Participant
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
"" means the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as it presently exists or may be amended from time to time.
Pension Act
"" means:
Permitted Encumbrances
(a) Liens imposed by law for taxes or other governmental charges that are not yet due or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.05;
 
(b) landlords', carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's and other like Liens imposed by law, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than 30 days or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.05;
(c) pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations;
(d) Liens to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
(e) judgment liens in respect of judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default under clause (k) of Section 7.01;
(f) easements, zoning restrictions, licenses, reservations, covenants, utility easements, building restrictions, rights-of-way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business and minor defects or irregularities in title that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
(g) any interest or title of a lessor under any lease permitted by this Agreement;
(h) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods;
(i) leases or subleases granted to other Persons and not interfering in any material respect with the business of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; and
(j) licenses of intellectual property granted in the ordinary course of business,
that the term "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness.
provided
"" means:
Permitted Investments
(a) direct obligations of the United States of America or any agency thereof or obligations guaranteed by the United States of America or any agency thereof;
 
(b) investments in commercial paper maturing not more than one year after the date of acquisition issued by a corporation (other than an Affiliate of the Borrower) organized and in existence under the laws of the United States of America or any foreign country recognized by the United States of America and having, at such date of acquisition, a rating of "P-1" (or better) from Moody's or "A-1" (or better) from S&P;
(c) investments in (i) certificates of deposit, bankers' acceptances, time deposits and money market deposit accounts maturing not more than one year after the date of acquisition thereof issued or guaranteed by or placed with any commercial bank or trust company organized under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof or any foreign country recognized by the United States of America or (ii) obligations of United States Federal agencies sponsored by the Federal government (including, without limitation, the Federal Home Loan Bank, Federal Farm Credit Bank, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and Federal National Mortgage Association) that are not direct obligations of the United States of America or any State thereof and are not obligations guaranteed by the United States of America or any State thereof, in each case which bank, trust company or Federally sponsored agency has a combined capital and surplus and undivided profits in excess of $250,000,000 (or the foreign currency equivalent thereof) and has outstanding debt which is rated "A" (or such similar equivalent rating) or higher by at least one nationally recognized statistical rating organization (as defined in Rule 436 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended);
(d) fully collateralized repurchase obligations with a term of not more than 45 days for securities described in clause (a) above or clause (e), (f) or (g) below and entered into with a financial institution satisfying the criteria described in clause (c) above;
(e) investments in securities issued or fully guaranteed by any state, commonwealth or territory of the United States of America or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof having maturities of not more than three years from the date of acquisition thereof and, having a rating of at least "AA" from S&P or "Aa" from Moody's;
(f) investments in securities with maturities of one year or less from the date of acquisition issued or fully guaranteed by any state, commonwealth or territory of the United States of America, or by any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof, and having a rating of at least "A" from S&P or from Moody's;
(g) investments in securities issued by any foreign government or any political subdivision of any foreign government or any public instrumentality thereof having maturities of not more than six months from the date of acquisition thereof and, at the time of acquisition, having one of the two highest credit ratings obtainable from S&P or from Moody's;
 
(h) investments in corporate bonds or notes having maturities of not more than five years from the date of acquisition thereof and having a rating of at least "A" from S&P or Moody's;
(i) auction rate preferred stock having maturities of not more than 90 days from the date of acquisition thereof, that the long-term senior unsecured debt of the issuer of such preferred stock shall have a rating of at least "A" from S&P or from Moody's;
provided
(j) investments in funds that invest substantially all their assets in one or more types of securities described in clauses (a) through (i) above; and
(k) money market funds that (i) comply with the criteria set forth in SEC Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and (ii) have portfolio assets of at least $1,000,000,000.
"" means an obligation of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary (for purposes of this definition, a "") not constituting Indebtedness, (a) such obligation is entered into in the ordinary course of such Primary Obligor's business, (b) any Guarantee of such obligation by Intermediate Holdings or, in the case of any Subsidiary or Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower, is given in the ordinary course of business of Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower, as the case may be, and (c) any Guarantee of such obligation is reasonably consistent with the practices of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower and reasonably necessary to permit the Primary Obligor to incur such obligation.
Permitted Obligation
Primary Obligor
provided
"" means, at any time, an amount equal to the greater of (a) during any Non-Investment Grade Period, $50,000,000 and during any Investment Grade Period, $250,000,000 and (b) the amount by which $500,000,000 exceeds the Total Maxtor Debt Amount.
Permitted Priority Debt Amount
"" means any transaction or series of transactions that may be entered into by the Borrower or any Subsidiary pursuant to which it may sell, convey, contribute to capital or otherwise transfer (which sale, conveyance, contribution to capital or transfer may include or be supported by the grant of a security interest in) Receivables or interests therein and all collateral securing such Receivables, all contracts and contract rights, purchase orders, security interests, financing statements or other documentation in respect of such Receivables, any guarantees, indemnities, warranties or other obligations in respect of such Receivables, any other assets that are customarily transferred or in respect of which security interests are customarily granted in connection with asset securitization transactions involving receivables similar to such Receivables and any collections or proceeds of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "") (a) to a trust, partnership, corporation or other Person (other than the Borrower or any Subsidiary other than any SPE Subsidiary), which transfer is funded in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by the incurrence or issuance by the transferee or any successor transferee of Indebtedness, fractional undivided interests or other securities that are to receive payments from, or that represent
Permitted Receivables Financing
Related Assets
 
interests in, the cash flow derived from such Receivables and Related Assets or interests in such Receivables and Related Assets, or (b) directly to one or more investors or other purchasers (other than the Borrower or any Subsidiary), it being understood that a Permitted Receivables Financing may involve (i) one or more sequential transfers or pledges of the same Receivables and Related Assets, or interests therein (such as a sale, conveyance or other transfer to any SPE Subsidiary followed by a pledge of the transferred Receivables and Related Assets to secure Indebtedness incurred by the SPE Subsidiary), and all such transfers, pledges and Indebtedness incurrences shall be part of and constitute a single Permitted Receivables Financing, and (ii) periodic transfers or pledges of Receivables and/or revolving transactions in which new Receivables and Related Assets, or interests therein, are transferred or pledged upon collection of previously transferred or pledged Receivables and Related Assets, or interests therein, that any such transactions shall provide for recourse to such Subsidiary (other than any SPE Subsidiary) or the Borrower (as applicable) only in respect of the cash flows in respect of such Receivables and Related Assets and to the extent of breaches of representations and warranties relating to the Receivables, dilution of the Receivables, customary indemnities and other customary securitization undertakings in the jurisdiction relevant to such transactions; and that the aggregate principal amount of Permitted Receivables Financings shall not exceed $500,000,000 at any time outstanding.
provided
provided
further
The "amount" or "principal amount" of any Permitted Receivables Financing shall be deemed at any time to be (1) the aggregate principal or stated amount of the Indebtedness, fractional undivided interests (which stated amount may be described as a "net investment" or similar term reflecting the amount invested in such undivided interest) or other securities incurred or issued pursuant to such Permitted Receivables Financing, in each case outstanding at such time, or (2) in the case of any Permitted Receivables Financing in respect of which no such Indebtedness, fractional undivided interests or securities are incurred or issued, the cash purchase price paid by the buyer (other than any SPE Subsidiary) in connection with its purchase of Receivables less the amount of collections received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of such Receivables and paid to such buyer, excluding any amounts applied to purchase fees or discount or in the nature of interest.
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 6.02(g).
Permitted Secured Debt Amount
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 6.01(a)(ix).
Permitted Subsidiary Debt Amount
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA
Plan
 
Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
"" means any promissory notes delivered pursuant to Section 2.09(e).
Promissory Notes
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.02(b).
Proposed Change
"" means accounts receivable (including all rights to payment created by or arising from the sale of goods, leases of goods or the rendition of services, no matter how evidenced (including in the form of a chattel paper) and whether or not earned by performance.
Receivables
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04(c).
Register
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the definition of the term "Permitted Receivables Financing".
Related Assets
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means any release, spill, emission, leaking, dumping, injection, pouring, deposit, disposal, discharge, dispersal, leaching or migration into the environment (including ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or within any building, structure, facility or fixture.
Release
"" means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Exposures and unused Revolving Commitments representing in the aggregate more than 50% of the aggregate Revolving Exposures and unused Revolving Commitments at such time.
Required Lenders
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 1.05(a).
Reset Date
"" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02).
Restatement Effective Date
"" means (a) any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any Equity Interests in Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancelation or termination of any
Restricted Payment
 
Equity Interests in Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such Equity Interests in the Borrower or any Subsidiary and (b) any distribution or other payment (whether in cash, securities or other property or any combination thereof) under or in respect of any Deferred Compensation Plan.
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and to acquire participations in Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.08 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to (i) assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04 or (ii) Section 2.20. The initial amount of each Lender's Revolving Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Acceptance or Revolving Increase Amendment pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Revolving Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Revolving Commitments is $500,000,000.
Revolving Commitment
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans at such time and (b) such Lender's LC Exposure and Swingline Exposure at such time.
Revolving Exposure
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.20(b).
Revolving Increase Amendment
"" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.01.
Revolving Loan
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, Inc. and its successors.
S&P
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
"" means (a) the 8% Senior Notes due 2009 that are outstanding on the Restatement Effective Date and (b) each of (i) the $300,000,000 Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2009, (ii) the $600,000,000 6.375% Senior Notes due 2011 and (iii) the $600,000,000 6.800% Senior Notes due 2016 that are being issued substantially concurrently with the Restatement Effective Date, and in each case the respective Indebtedness represented thereby (including the respective Parent Guaranties, the Exchange Notes (each as defined in the Senior Note Documents), the respective guarantees of the Exchange Notes and any replacement notes).
Senior Notes
"" means the indentures under which the Senior Notes are issued and all other instruments, agreements and other documents evidencing or governing the Senior Notes or providing for any Guarantees in respect thereof by Intermediate Holdings.
Senior Note Documents
 
"" means any wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower formed solely for the purpose of, and that engages only in, one or more Permitted Receivables Financings.
SPE Subsidiary
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04(h).
SPV
"" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurodollar Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
Statutory Reserve Rate
"" means, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
subsidiary
parent
"" means any subsidiary of Intermediate Holdings other than the Borrower.
Subsidiary
"" means any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions, that no phantom stock or similar plan providing for payments only on account of services provided by current or former directors, officers, employees or consultants of the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall be a Swap Agreement.
Swap Agreement
provided
"" means the commitment of the Swingline Lender to make Swingline Loans.
Swingline Commitment
"" means, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Swingline Loans outstanding at such time. The Swingline Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total Swingline Exposure at such time.
Swingline Exposure
 
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as lender of Swingline Loans hereunder.
Swingline Lender
"" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.04.
Swingline Loan
"" means any and all current or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
Taxes
"" means, at any time, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Indebtedness of Maxtor at such time.
Total Maxtor Debt Amount
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.15.
USA Patriot Act
"" means, with respect to any Person at any date, a subsidiary of such Person of which securities or other ownership interests representing 100% of the Equity Interests (other than directors' qualifying shares) are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held by such Person or one or more wholly-owned Subsidiaries of such Person or by such Person and one or more wholly-owned Subsidiaries of such Person.
wholly-owned Subsidiary
"" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
SECTION 1.02. For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Loan") or by Type (, a "Eurodollar Loan") or by Class and Type (, a "Eurodollar Revolving Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Borrowing") or by Type (, a "Eurodollar Borrowing") or by Class and Type (, a "Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing").
Classification of Loans and Borrowings.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
SECTION 1.03. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, amended and restated, supplemented or
Terms Generally.
 
otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, amendments and restatements, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
SECTION 1.04. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time, that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision (including any definition) hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith. For the purposes of determining compliance under Section 6.01, Section 6.02, Section 6.04, Section 6.05, Section 6.07, Section 6.08, Section 6.11, Section 6.12 and Section 6.13 with respect to any amount in a currency other than dollars, such amount shall be deemed to equal the Dollar Equivalent thereof (determined in good faith by the Borrower) at the time such amount was incurred or expended, as the case may be.
Accounting Terms; GAAP.
provided
SECTION 1.05. (a) Not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, on each Calculation Date, the Administrative Agent shall (i) determine the Exchange Rate as of such Calculation Date to be used for calculating the Dollar Equivalent amounts of each Alternative Currency in which an outstanding Alternative Currency Letter of Credit or unreimbursed LC Disbursement is denominated and (ii) give notice thereof to the Borrower. The Exchange Rates so determined shall become effective on the first Business Day immediately following the relevant Calculation Date (a ""), shall remain effective until the next succeeding Reset Date and shall for all purposes of this Agreement (other than converting into dollars under Sections 2.05(d), (e), (h), (j) and (k) and 2.12(b) the obligations of the Borrower and the Lenders in respect of LC Disbursements that have not been reimbursed when due) be the Exchange Rates employed in converting any amounts between the applicable currencies.
Exchange Rates.
Reset Date
(b) Not later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on each Reset Date, the Administrative Agent shall (i) determine the Alternative Currency LC Exposure on such date (after giving effect to any Alternative Currency Letters of Credit issued, renewed or terminated or requested to be issued, renewed or terminated on such date) and (ii) notify the Borrower and each Issuing Bank of the results of such determination.
 
SECTION 2.01. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in such Lender's Revolving Exposure exceeding such Lender's Revolving Commitment. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans.
Commitments.
SECTION 2.02. (a) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans of the same Type made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Revolving Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder, that the Revolving Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.
Loans and Borrowings.
provided
(b) Subject to Section 2.13, each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurodollar Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith, that all Revolving Borrowings made on the Restatement Effective Date shall be made as ABR Borrowings. Each Swingline Loan shall be an ABR Loan. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurodollar Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan, that (i) any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and (ii) the Borrower shall not be required to make any greater payment under Section 2.14 or Section 2.16 to the applicable Lender than such Lender would have been entitled to receive if such Lender had not exercised such option.
provided
provided
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurodollar Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000. At the time that each ABR Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $500,000 and not less than $1,000,000, that an ABR Revolving Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the aggregate Revolving Commitments or that is required to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.05(e). Each Swingline Loan shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $100,000 and not less than $500,000. Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time, that there shall not at any time be more than a total of 15 Eurodollar Borrowings outstanding.
provided
provided
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
 
SECTION 2.03. To request a Revolving Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing, that any such notice of an ABR Revolving Borrowing to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.05(e) may be given not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
Requests for Revolving Borrowings.
provided
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) subject to the proviso to the first sentence of Section 2.02(b), whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing;
(iv) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and
(v) the location and number of the Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.06.
If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section 2.03, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
SECTION 2.04. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swingline Lender agrees to make Swingline Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not result in (i) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans exceeding $50,000,000 or (ii) the aggregate Revolving Exposures exceeding the aggregate Revolving Commitments, that the Swingline Lender shall not be required to make a Swingline Loan to refinance an outstanding Swingline Loan. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Swingline Loans.
Swingline Loans.
provided
 
(b) To request a Swingline Loan, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (confirmed by telecopy), not later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the day of such proposed Swingline Loan. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the requested date (which shall be a Business Day) and amount of the requested Swingline Loan. The Administrative Agent will promptly advise the Swingline Lender of any such notice received from the Borrower. The Swingline Lender shall make each Swingline Loan available to the Borrower by means of a credit to the general deposit account of the Borrower maintained with the Swingline Lender (or, in the case of a Swingline Loan made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.05(e), by remittance to the Issuing Bank or, to the extent that the Lenders have made payments pursuant to Section 2.05(e) to reimburse the Issuing Bank, to such Lenders and the Issuing Bank as their interests may appear) by 4:00 p.m., New York City time, on the requested date of such Swingline Loan.
(c) The Swingline Lender may by written notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 12:30 p.m., New York City time, on any Business Day require the Lenders to acquire participations on such Business Day in all or a portion of the Swingline Loans outstanding. Such notice shall specify the aggregate amount of Swingline Loans in which Lenders will participate. Promptly upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent will give notice thereof to each Lender, specifying in such notice such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Swingline Loans. Each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Swingline Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Swingline Loans. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations in Swingline Loans pursuant to this paragraph is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender shall comply with its obligation under this paragraph by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.06 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.06 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Swingline Lender the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of any participations in any Swingline Loan acquired pursuant to this paragraph, and thereafter payments in respect of such Swingline Loan shall be made to the Administrative Agent and not to the Swingline Lender. Any amounts received by the Swingline Lender from the Borrower (or other party on behalf of the Borrower) in respect of a Swingline Loan after receipt by the Swingline Lender of the proceeds of a sale of participations therein shall be promptly remitted to the Administrative Agent; any such amounts received by the Administrative Agent shall be promptly remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders that shall have made their payments pursuant to this paragraph and to the Swingline Lender, as their interests may appear, that any such payment so remitted shall be repaid to the Swingline Lender or to the Administrative Agent, as applicable, if and to the extent such payment is required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. The purchase of participations in a Swingline Loan pursuant to this paragraph shall not relieve the Borrower of any default in the payment thereof.
mutatis
mutandis
provided
 
SECTION 2.05. (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may request the issuance of Letters of Credit for its own account, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Bank, at any time and from time to time during the Availability Period and prior to the date that is five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application or other agreement submitted by the Borrower to, or entered into by the Borrower with, the Issuing Bank relating to any Letter of Credit, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control.
Letters of Credit.
General.
(b) To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit), the Borrower shall hand deliver or telecopy (or transmit by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the Issuing Bank) to the Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent (reasonably in advance of the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension) a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended, renewed or extended, and specifying the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (which shall be a Business Day), the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) of this Section 2.05), the amount of such Letter of Credit, the currency in which such Letter of Credit is to be denominated (which shall be dollars or, subject to Section 2.19, an Alternative Currency), the name and address of the beneficiary thereof and such other information as shall be necessary to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit. If requested by the Issuing Bank, the Borrower also shall submit a letter of credit application on the Issuing Bank's standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit. A Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended, renewed or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit the Borrower shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (i) the LC Exposure shall not exceed $100,000,000 and (ii) the aggregate Revolving Exposures shall not exceed the aggregate Revolving Commitments.
Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension; Certain Conditions.
(c) Each Letter of Credit shall expire at or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i)(A) the date that is one year after the date of the issuance of such Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after the date of such renewal or extension) or (B) such other date mutually agreed upon by an Issuing Bank and the Borrower (but in no event shall such date be later than as provided in clause (ii) of this paragraph (c)) and (ii) the date that is five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date.
Expiration Date.
(d) By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the Issuing Bank or the Lenders, the Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from the Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of
Participations.
 
Credit equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent in dollars, for the account of the Issuing Bank, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of (i) each LC Disbursement made by the Issuing Bank in dollars and (ii) the Dollar Equivalent, using the Exchange Rates on the date such payment is required, of each LC Disbursement made by the Issuing Bank in an Alternative Currency and, in each case, not reimbursed by the Borrower on the date due as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section 2.05, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason (or, if such reimbursement payment was refunded in an Alternative Currency, the Dollar Equivalent thereof using the Exchange Rates on the date of such refund). Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
(e) If the Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit, the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement by paying to the Administrative Agent an amount equal to such LC Disbursement, in dollars or (subject to the two immediately succeeding sentences) the applicable Alternative Currency, not later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately following the date on which the Borrower receives notice of such LC Disbursement, that, in the case of any LC Disbursement made in dollars, the Borrower may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth herein, request in accordance with Section 2.03 or Section 2.04 that such payment be financed with an ABR Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan in an equivalent amount and, to the extent so financed, the Borrower's obligation to make such payment shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting ABR Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan. If the Borrower's reimbursement of, or obligation to reimburse, any amounts in any Alternative Currency would subject the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender to any stamp duty, ad valorem charge or similar tax that would not be payable if such reimbursement were made or required to be made in dollars, the Borrower shall reimburse each LC Disbursement made in such Alternative Currency in dollars, in an amount equal to the Dollar Equivalent, calculated using the applicable Exchange Rate on the date such LC Disbursement is made, of such LC Disbursement. If the Borrower fails to make such payment when due, then (i) if such payment relates to an Alternative Currency Letter of Credit, automatically and with no further action required, the Borrower's obligation to reimburse the applicable LC Disbursement shall be permanently converted into an obligation to reimburse the Dollar Equivalent, calculated using the Exchange Rates on the date when such payment was due, of such LC Disbursement and (ii) the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Issuing Bank and each Lender of the applicable LC Disbursement, the Dollar Equivalent thereof (if such LC Disbursement relates to an Alternative Currency Letter of Credit), the payment then due from the Borrower in respect thereof and such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. Promptly
Reimbursement.
provided
 
following receipt of such notice, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent in dollars its Applicable Percentage of the payment then due from the Borrower (determined as provided in clause (i) above, if such payment relates to an Alternative Currency Letter of Credit), in the same manner as provided in Section 2.06 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.06 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the applicable Issuing Bank in dollars the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. Promptly following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any payment from the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to such Issuing Bank or, to the extent that Lenders have made payments pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse such Issuing Bank, then to such Lenders and the Issuing Bank as their interests may appear. Any payment made by a Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the Issuing Bank for any LC Disbursement (other than the funding of ABR Revolving Loans or a Swingline Loan as contemplated above) shall not constitute a Loan and shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such LC Disbursement.
mutatis
mutandis
(f) The Borrower's obligation to reimburse LC Disbursements as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section 2.05 shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit, any application for the issuance of a Letter of Credit or this Agreement, or any term or provision therein, (ii) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, (iii) payment by the Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit or (iv) any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this Section 2.05, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or provide a right of setoff against, the Borrower's obligations hereunder. None of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, the Issuing Bank or any of their respective Related Parties shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder (irrespective of any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding sentence), or any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of the Issuing Bank, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (f) shall not be construed to excuse the Issuing Bank from liability to the Borrower to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by the Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by the Borrower that are caused by (A) the Issuing Bank's failure to exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof or (B) the Issuing Bank's failure to issue a Letter of Credit in accordance with the terms of this Agreement when requested by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.05(b). The parties hereto expressly agree that, in the absence of gross negligence or wilful
Obligations Absolute.
provided
 
misconduct on the part of the Issuing Bank, the Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination and each issuance of (or failure to issue) a Letter of Credit. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented that appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, the Issuing Bank may, in its sole discretion, either accept and make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit.
(g) The Issuing Bank shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, examine all documents purporting to represent a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit. The Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such demand for payment and whether the Issuing Bank has made or will make an LC Disbursement thereunder, that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse the Issuing Bank and the Lenders with respect to any such LC Disbursement in accordance with paragraph (e) of this Section 2.05.
Disbursement Procedures.
provided
(h) If the Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement, then, unless the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement in full on the date such LC Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such LC Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that the Borrower reimburses such LC Disbursement, at the rate per annum then applicable to ABR Revolving Loans, that if the Borrower fails to reimburse such LC Disbursement when due pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section 2.05, then Section 2.12(c) shall apply; that, in the case of any LC Disbursement made under an Alternative Currency Letter of Credit, the amount of interest due with respect thereto shall (i) in the case of any LC Disbursement that is reimbursed on or before the Business Day immediately succeeding such LC Disbursement, (A) be payable in the applicable Alternative Currency and (B) bear interest at a rate equal to the rate reasonably determined by the applicable Issuing Bank to be the cost to such Issuing Bank of funding such LC Disbursement plus the Applicable Margin applicable to Eurodollar Loans at such time and (ii) in the case of any LC Disbursement that is reimbursed after the Business Day immediately succeeding such LC Disbursement, (A) be payable in dollars, (B) accrue on the Dollar Equivalent, calculated using the Exchange Rates on the date such LC Disbursement was made, of such LC Disbursement and (C) bear interest at the rate per annum then applicable to ABR Revolving Loans, subject to Section 2.12(c). Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the Issuing Bank, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any Lender pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section 2.05 to reimburse the Issuing Bank shall be for the account of such Lender to the extent of such payment.
Interim Interest.
provided
provided
further
(i) Any Issuing Bank may be replaced at any time by written agreement among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the replaced Issuing Bank and the successor Issuing Bank. The Administrative Agent shall
Replacement of the Issuing Bank.
 
notify the Lenders of any such replacement of the Issuing Bank. At the time any such replacement shall become effective, the Borrower shall pay all unpaid fees accrued for the account of the replaced Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.11(b). From and after the effective date of any such replacement, (i) the successor Issuing Bank shall have all the rights and obligations of the Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit to be issued thereafter and (ii) references herein to the term "Issuing Bank" shall be deemed to refer to such successor or to any previous Issuing Bank, or to such successor and all previous Issuing Banks, as the context shall require. After the replacement of an Issuing Bank hereunder, the replaced Issuing Bank shall remain a party hereto and shall continue to have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it prior to such replacement, but shall not be required to issue additional Letters of Credit.
(j) If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, on the Business Day that the Borrower receives notice from the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph, the Borrower shall deposit in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders, an amount in dollars and in cash equal to the LC Exposure as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon, that (i) the portions of such amount attributable to undrawn Alternative Currency Letters of Credit or LC Disbursements in an Alternative Currency that the Borrower is not late in reimbursing shall be deposited in the applicable Alternative Currencies in the actual amounts of such undrawn Letters of Credit and LC Disbursements and (ii) upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of Section 7.01 the obligation to deposit such cash collateral shall become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable in dollars, without demand or other notice of any kind. For the purposes of this paragraph, the Alternative Currency LC Exposure shall be calculated using the Exchange Rates on the date that notice demanding cash collateralization is delivered to the Borrower. The Borrower also shall deposit cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph as and to the extent required by Section 2.10(b). Each such deposit pursuant to this paragraph or pursuant to Section 2.10(b) shall be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of the Administrative Agent and at the Borrower's risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. Moneys in such account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to reimburse the Issuing Bank for LC Disbursements for which it has not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrower for the LC Exposure at such time or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated, be applied to satisfy other obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower within three Business Days after all Events of Default
Cash Collateralization.
provided
 
have been cured or waived. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder pursuant to Section 2.10(b), such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower as and to the extent that, after giving effect to such return, the Borrower would remain in compliance with Section 2.10(b) and no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
(k) In the event that the Loans become immediately due and payable on any date pursuant to Section 7.01, all amounts (i) that the Borrower is at the time or thereafter becomes required to reimburse or otherwise pay to the Administrative Agent in respect of LC Disbursements made under any Alternative Currency Letter of Credit (other than amounts in respect of which the Borrower has deposited cash collateral pursuant to Section 2.05(j), if such cash collateral was deposited in the applicable Alternative Currency to the extent so deposited or applied), (ii) that the Lenders are at the time or thereafter become required to pay to the Administrative Agent and the Administrative Agent is at the time or thereafter becomes required to distribute to the Issuing Bank pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section 2.05 in respect of unreimbursed LC Disbursements made under any Alternative Currency Letter of Credit and (iii) of each Lender's participation in any Alternative Currency Letter of Credit under which an LC Disbursement has been made shall, automatically and with no further action required, be converted into the Dollar Equivalent, calculated using the Exchange Rates on such date (or in the case of any LC Disbursement made after such date, on the date such LC Disbursement is made), of such amounts. On and after such conversion, all amounts accruing and owed to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender in respect of the obligations described in this paragraph shall accrue and be payable in dollars at the rates otherwise applicable hereunder.
Conversion.
(l) The Borrower may, at any time and from time to time with the consent of the Administrative Agent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld) and such Lender, designate one or more additional Lenders to act as an issuing bank under the terms of this Agreement, that the total number of Lenders so designated at any time shall not exceed five. Any Lender designated as an Issuing Bank pursuant to this paragraph (l) shall be deemed to be an "Issuing Bank" for the purposes of this Agreement (in addition to being a Lender) with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Lender.
Additional Issuing Banks.
provided
(m) Each Issuing Bank will report in writing to the Administrative Agent (i) on the first Business Day of each week, the aggregate face amount of Letters of Credit issued by it and outstanding as of the last Business Day of the preceding week, (ii) on or prior to each Business Day on which an Issuing Bank expects to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, the date of such issuance or amendment and the aggregate face amount of Letters of Credit to be issued, amended, renewed or extended by it and outstanding after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (and such Issuing Bank shall advise the Administrative Agent on such Business Day whether such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension occurred and whether the amount thereof changed), (iii) on each Business Day on which an Issuing Bank makes any LC Disbursement, the date of such LC Disbursement and the amount of such LC Disbursement and (iv) on any Business Day on which the Borrower fails to reimburse an LC Disbursement required to be reimbursed to such Issuing Bank on such day, the date of such failure and amount of such LC Disbursement.
Reporting.
 
SECTION 2.06. (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 12:00 noon, New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders, that Swingline Loans shall be made as provided in Section 2.04. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of the Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent in New York City and designated by the Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request, that ABR Revolving Loans and Swingline Loans made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.05(e) shall be remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Issuing Bank or, to the extent that Lenders have made payments pursuant to Section 2.05(e) to reimburse the Issuing Bank, then to such Lenders and the Issuing Bank as their interests may appear.
Funding of Borrowings.
provided
provided
(b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 2.06 and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation or (ii) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to ABR Loans. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
(c) Nothing in this Section 2.06 shall be deemed to relieve any Lender from its obligation to fulfill its Commitments hereunder or to prejudice any rights that the Borrower may have against any Lender as a result of any default by any such Lender hereunder (it being understood, however, that no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to fulfill its Commitments hereunder).
SECTION 2.07. (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request or designated by Section 2.03 and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request or designated by Section 2.03. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods
Interest Elections.
 
therefor, all as provided in this Section 2.07. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section 2.07 shall not apply to Swingline Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued.
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section 2.07, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if the Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower.
(c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(e) If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurodollar Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Revolving Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is
 
continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurodollar Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Revolving Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
SECTION 2.08. (a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date.
Termination and Reduction of Commitments.
(b) The Borrower may, without premium or penalty, at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments of any Class, that (i) each reduction of the Commitments of any Class shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Revolving Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.10, the aggregate Revolving Exposures would exceed the aggregate Revolving Commitments.
provided
(c) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section 2.08 at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.08 shall be irrevocable, that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments of any Class shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Revolving Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Revolving Commitments.
provided
SECTION 2.09. (a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan of such Lender on the Maturity Date and (ii) to the Swingline Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Swingline Loan on the earlier of the Maturity Date and the first date after such Swingline Loan is made that is the 15
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt.
th
or last day of a calendar month and is at least five Business Days after such Swingline Loan is made, that on each date that a Revolving Borrowing is made, the Borrower shall repay all Swingline Loans that were outstanding on the date such Borrowing was requested.
provided
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof, which accounts the Administrative Agent will make available to the Borrower upon its reasonable request.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section 2.09 shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein, that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans and pay interest thereon in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
(e) Any Lender may request that Loans of any Class made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
SECTION 2.10. (a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, without premium or penalty (but subject to Section 2.15), subject to the requirements of this Section 2.10.
Prepayment of Loans.
(b) In the event and on each occasion that the aggregate Revolving Exposures exceed the aggregate Revolving Commitments, the Borrower shall prepay Revolving Borrowings or Swingline Borrowings (or, if no such Borrowings are outstanding, deposit cash collateral in an account with the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.05(j)) in an aggregate amount equal to such excess.
(c) Prior to any optional or mandatory prepayment of Borrowings hereunder, the Borrower shall select the Borrowing or Borrowings to be prepaid and shall specify such selection in the notice of such prepayment pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 2.10.
(d) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, the Swingline Lender) by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment, (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of
 
prepayment or (iii) in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, not later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid, that, if a notice of optional prepayment of any Loans is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.08, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.08. Promptly following receipt of any such notice (other than a notice relating solely to Swingline Loans), the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02, except as necessary to apply fully the required amount of a mandatory prepayment. Each prepayment of a portion of any Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.12.
provided
SECTION 2.11. (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Margin on the average daily unused amount of the Revolving Commitment of such Lender during the period from and including the Restatement Effective Date to but excluding the date on which such Revolving Commitment terminates. Accrued commitment fees shall be payable in arrears on the third Business Day following the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the date on which the Revolving Commitments terminate, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof. All commitment fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). For purposes of computing commitment fees, a Revolving Commitment of a Lender shall be deemed to be used to the extent of the outstanding Revolving Loans and LC Exposure of such Lender (and the Swingline Exposure of such Lender shall be disregarded for such purpose).
Fees.
(b) The Borrower agrees to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a participation fee with respect to its participations in Letters of Credit, which shall accrue at the same Applicable Margin used to determine the interest rate applicable to Eurodollar Loans on the average daily amount of such Lender's LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Restatement Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date on which such Lender's Revolving Commitment terminates and the date on which such Lender ceases to have any LC Exposure, and (ii) to the Issuing Bank a fronting fee, which shall accrue at the rate or rates per annum separately agreed upon between the Borrower and the Issuing Bank on the average daily amount of the LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Restatement Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date of termination of the Revolving Commitments and the date on which there ceases to be any LC Exposure, as well as the Issuing Bank's standard fees with respect to the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or processing of drawings thereunder. Participation fees and fronting fees accrued through
 
and including the last day of March, June, September and December of each year shall be payable on the third Business Day following such last day, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Restatement Effective Date, that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Revolving Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Revolving Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. Any other fees payable to the Issuing Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be payable within 10 days after demand. All participation fees and fronting fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). For purposes of computing the average daily amount of the LC Exposure for any period under this Section 2.11(b), the average daily amount of the Alternative Currency LC Exposure for such period shall be calculated by multiplying (x) the average daily balance of each Alternative Currency Letter of Credit (expressed in the currency in which such Alternative Currency Letter of Credit is denominated) by (y) the Exchange Rate for each such Alternative Currency in effect on the last Business Day of such period or by such other reasonable method that the Administrative Agent deems appropriate.
provided
(c) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
(d) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds in dollars, to the Administrative Agent (or to the Issuing Bank, in the case of fees payable to it) for distribution, in the case of commitment fees and participation fees, to the Lenders entitled thereto. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
SECTION 2.12. (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing (including each Swingline Loan) shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
Interest.
(b) The Loans comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing shall bear interest at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Margin.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2.00% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section 2.12 or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2.00% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section 2.12.
(d) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears (i) on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and (ii) in the case of Revolving Loans, upon termination of the Revolving Commitments, that (A) interest accrued pursuant
provided
 
to paragraph (d) of this Section 2.12 shall be payable on demand, (B) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (C) in the event of any conversion of any Eurodollar Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
(e) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate or Adjusted LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with the terms hereof, and such determination shall be evidence thereof.
prima
facie
SECTION 2.13. If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing:
Alternate Rate of Interest.
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be evidence thereof) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period; or
prima
facie
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist (it being understood that the Administrative Agent will use commercially reasonable efforts to give such notice as soon as practicable after such circumstances no longer exist), (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurodollar Borrowing shall be ineffective and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Revolving Borrowing.
SECTION 2.14. (a) If any Change in Law (except with respect to Taxes, which shall be governed by Section 2.16) shall:
Increased Costs.
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate) or the Issuing Bank; or
 
(ii) impose on any Lender or the Issuing Bank or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to increase the cost to such Lender or the Issuing Bank of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or the Issuing Bank hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrower will pay to such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on any Lender's or the Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by the Issuing Bank, to a level below that which such Lender or the Issuing Bank or such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the Issuing Bank or such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) A certificate of a Lender or the Issuing Bank setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or the Issuing Bank or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 2.14, and setting forth in reasonable detail the basis on which such amount or amounts were calculated and stating that such calculation has been made in a manner consistent with the treatment given by such Lender or Issuing Bank to similar businesses in similar circumstances, shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be evidence thereof. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 15 days after receipt thereof.
prima
facie
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or the Issuing Bank to demand compensation pursuant to this Section 2.14 shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation, that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or the Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section 2.14 for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's intention to claim compensation therefor; and that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
further
 
SECTION 2.15. In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurodollar Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section 2.10(d) and is revoked in accordance therewith) or (d) the assignment of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.18, then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss (other than lost profits), cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurodollar Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount reasonably determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest that would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest that would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate that such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for dollar deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section 2.15, and setting forth in reasonable detail the basis on which such amount or amounts were calculated, shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be evidence thereof. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 15 days after receipt thereof.
Break Funding Payments.
prima
facie
SECTION 2.16. (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower under any Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, that if the Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.16) the Administrative Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes.
provided
(b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Issuing Bank, within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of
 
any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower under any Loan Document (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section 2.16) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender or the Issuing Bank, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or the Issuing Bank, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(e) Any Foreign Lender (or Participant) that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located, or under any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) (or, in the case of a Participant, to the Foreign Lender from which the related participation was purchased), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate, that, with respect to such documentation provided to the Borrower, such Foreign Lender (or Participant) has received written notice from the Borrower advising it of the availability of such exemption or reduction and supplying all applicable documentation. In addition, each Foreign Lender (or Participant) shall deliver substitute forms promptly upon the obsolescence or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Foreign Lender (or Participant), that, with respect to such documentation provided to the Borrower, such Foreign Lender (or Participant) has received written notice from the Borrower advising it of such obsolescence and supplying such substitute forms.
provided
provided
(f) If the Administrative Agent or a Lender or the Issuing Bank determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.16, which the Administrative Agent or such Lender or the Issuing Bank is able to identify as such, it shall pay over such refund to the Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section 2.16 with respect to the Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender or the Issuing Bank and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); , , that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender or the Issuing
provided
however
 
Bank, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender or the Issuing Bank in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender or the Issuing Bank is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. Nothing contained in this Section 2.16(f) shall require the Administrative Agent or any Lender or the Issuing Bank to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its Taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
SECTION 2.17. (a) The Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder or under any other Loan Document (whether of principal, interest, fees or reimbursement of LC Disbursements, or of amounts payable under Section 2.14, Section 2.15 or Section 2.16, or otherwise) prior to the time expressly required hereunder or under such other Loan Document for such payment (or, if no such time is expressly required, prior to 2:00 p.m., New York City time), on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York, except payments to be made directly to the Issuing Bank or Swingline Lender as expressly provided herein and except that payments pursuant to Section 2.14, Section 2.15, Section 2.16 and Section 9.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto and payments pursuant to any other Loan Documents shall be made to the Persons specified therein. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment under any Loan Document shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. Except as provided in Section 2.05(e), all payments under each Loan Document shall be made in dollars.
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs.
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, unreimbursed LC Disbursements, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due to such parties.
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans or participations in LC Disbursements or Swingline Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its
 
Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans, that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations in LC Disbursements to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
provided
(d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the Issuing Bank hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or Issuing Bank with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.04(c), Section 2.05(d), Section 2.05(e), Section 2.06(b), Section 2.17(d) or Section 9.03(c), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
SECTION 2.18. (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.
 
designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.14 or 2.16, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
(b) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, or if any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that (i) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender and each Issuing Bank (which consent (x) shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and (y) in the case of any consent required by any Issuing Bank, shall be deemed to have been given in the event that such Issuing Bank fails to respond in writing to a request for written consent within two Business Days of receipt thereof), (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.14 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.16, such assignment will result in a material reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply. Nothing in this Section 2.18 shall be deemed to prejudice any rights that the Borrower may have against any Lender as a result of any default by any such Lender in its obligations to fund Loans hereunder.
provided
SECTION 2.19. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if, after the date hereof, (i) any Change in Law shall make it unlawful for any Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, or (ii) there shall have occurred any change in national or international financial, political or economic conditions (including the imposition of or any change in exchange controls) or currency exchange rates that would make it impracticable for any Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit denominated in such Alternative Currency for the account of the Borrower, then by prompt written notice thereof to the Borrower and to the Administrative Agent (which notice shall be withdrawn whenever such circumstances no longer exist), such Issuing Bank may declare that Letters of Credit will not thereafter be
Change in Law.
 
issued by it in the affected Alternative Currency or Alternative Currencies, whereupon the affected Alternative Currency or Alternative Currencies shall be deemed (for the duration of such declaration) not to constitute an Alternative Currency for purposes of the issuance of Letters of Credit by such Issuing Bank.
SECTION 2.20. (a) At any time and from time to time during the Availability Period, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may, by notice to the Administrative Agent (whereupon the Administrative Agent shall promptly deliver a copy to each of the Lenders), request to increase the aggregate amount of the Revolving Commitments (each such increase, a ""), that at the time of each such request and upon the effectiveness of each Revolving Increase Amendment, (A) no Default has occurred and is continuing or shall result therefrom and (B) the Borrower shall have delivered a certificate of a Financial Officer to the effect set forth in clause (A) above. Notwithstanding anything to contrary herein, the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Commitment Increases shall not exceed $250,000,000. Each Revolving Commitment Increase shall be in an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and be in an aggregate principal amount that is not less than $10,000,000, that such amount may be less than $10,000,000 if such amount represents all the remaining availability under the maximum aggregate principal amount of Revolving Commitment Increases set forth above.
Revolving Commitment Increases.
Revolving Commitment Increase
provided
provided
(b) Each notice from the Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.20 shall set forth the requested amount of the relevant Revolving Commitment Increase. Any additional bank, financial institution, existing Lender or other Person that elects to provide a portion of any Revolving Commitment Increase shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender and the Issuing Bank (any such bank, financial institution, existing Lender or other Person being called an "") and, if not already a Lender, shall become a Lender under this Agreement pursuant to a Revolving Increase Amendment. Each Revolving Commitment Increase shall be effected by an amendment (a "") to this Agreement and, as appropriate, the other Loan Documents, executed by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower, such Additional Lender and the Administrative Agent. No Lender shall be obligated to provide any Revolving Commitment Increase, unless it so agrees. Commitments in respect of any Revolving Commitment Increase shall become Revolving Commitments (or in the case of any Revolving Commitment Increase to be provided by an existing Lender, an increase in such Lender's Revolving Commitment) under this Agreement. A Revolving Increase Amendment may, without the consent of any other Lenders, effect such amendments to any Loan Documents as may be necessary or appropriate, in the opinion of the Administrative Agent, to effect the provisions of this Section 2.20. The effectiveness of any Revolving Increase Amendment shall, unless otherwise agreed to by the Administrative Agent and the Additional Lenders, be subject to the satisfaction on the date thereof (each, a "") of each of the conditions set forth in Section 4.02 (it being understood that all references to "the date of such Borrowing" in Section 4.02 shall be deemed to refer to the Revolving Increase Closing Date). The proceeds of any Loans made pursuant to Revolving Commitment Increases will be used only for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
Additional Lender
Revolving Increase Amendment
Revolving Increase Closing Date
 
(c) Upon each Revolving Commitment Increase pursuant to this Section 2.20, (i) each Lender immediately prior to such increase will automatically and without further act be deemed to have assigned to each Additional Lender, and each Additional Lender will automatically and without further act be deemed to have assumed, a portion of such Lender's participations hereunder in outstanding Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans such that, after giving effect to such Revolving Commitment Increase and each such deemed assignment and assumption of participations, the percentage of the aggregate outstanding (A) participations hereunder in Letters of Credit and (B) participations hereunder in Swingline Loans held by each Lender (including each Additional Lender) will equal such Lender's Applicable Percentage and (ii) if, on the date of such Revolving Commitment Increase, there are any Revolving Loans outstanding, such Revolving Loans shall be prepaid from the proceeds of additional Revolving Loans made hereunder (reflecting such Revolving Commitment Increase), which prepayment shall be accompanied by accrued interest on the Revolving Loans being prepaid and any costs incurred by any Lender in accordance with Section 2.15. The Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereby agree that the minimum borrowing, borrowing and payment requirements contained elsewhere in this Agreement shall not apply to the transactions effected pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence.
pro
rata
pro
rata
Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders with respect to itself and its subsidiaries that:
SECTION 3.01. Each of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries is duly incorporated or organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required.
Organization; Powers.
SECTION 3.02. The execution, delivery and performance by Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower of the Loan Documents to which it is a party are within their respective powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary action. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower and constitutes, and each other Loan Document to which Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower is to be a party, when executed and delivered by Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower, as applicable, will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower (as the case may be), enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy,
Authorization; Enforceability.
 
insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and to general principles of equity and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
SECTION 3.03. The execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents by Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by or before, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect and, except where the failure to obtain such consent or approval or to make such registration or filing, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (b) will not violate any applicable law, regulation or any order of any Governmental Authority in any material respect or the memorandum and articles of association, charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any indenture, material agreement or other material instrument binding upon Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary, except for violations or payments that, individually and in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts.
SECTION 3.04. (a) Intermediate Holdings has heretofore furnished to the Lenders the audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows of Intermediate Holdings as of and for the fiscal years ended July 1, 2005, and June 30, 2006, in each case, setting forth in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year and reported on by Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors, to the effect that such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial condition and results of operations and cash flows of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP consistently applied.
Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change.
(b) Except as disclosed in the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) above or the notes thereto and except for the Disclosed Matters, none of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or the Subsidiaries has, as of the Restatement Effective Date after giving effect to any Loans made on such date, any material contingent liabilities, unusual long-term commitments or unrealized losses.
(c) Since June 30, 2006, there has been no material adverse change in the business, financial condition or results of operations of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
SECTION 3.05. (a) Each of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real
Properties.
 
and personal property material to its business, except for minor defects in title that do not interfere with its ability to conduct its business as currently conducted or to utilize such properties for their intended purposes and subject to Permitted Encumbrances.
(b) Each of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and the use thereof by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually and in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.06. (a) Except for the Disclosed Matters, there are no actions, suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower, threatened against or affecting Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary (i) that could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect or (ii)(A) that involve any of the Loan Documents or the execution, delivery and performance by Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower thereof, (B) that are not frivolous and (C) if adversely determined, would reasonably be expected to be adverse to the interests of the Lenders.
Litigation and Environmental Matters.
(b) Except for the Disclosed Matters and except with respect to any other matters that, individually and in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, none of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary (i) has failed to comply with any applicable Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any applicable Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability.
(c) Since the date of this Agreement, there has been no change in the status of the Disclosed Matters that, individually or in the aggregate, has resulted in, or materially increased the likelihood of, a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.07. Each of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually and in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing.
Compliance with Laws and Agreements.
SECTION 3.08. None of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary is an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Investment Company Status.
 
SECTION 3.09. Each of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) any Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes.
SECTION 3.10. No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. The present value of all accumulated benefit obligations under all underfunded Plans (based on the assumptions used for purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87) did not, as of the date of the most recent financial statements reflecting such amounts, exceed the fair market value of the assets of all such underfunded Plans by an amount that would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
ERISA.
SECTION 3.11. The reports, financial statements, certificates or other written information furnished by or on behalf of Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or delivered hereunder or thereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished), taken as a whole, do not contain any material misstatement of fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not materially misleading, that, (a) with respect to projected financial information, Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower represent only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time and (b) with respect to information regarding the hard disc drive market and other industry data, Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower represent only that such information was prepared by third-party industry research firms, and although Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower believe such information is reliable, Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower cannot guarantee the accuracy and completeness of such information and have not independently verified such information.
Disclosure.
provided
SECTION 3.12. Schedule 3.12 sets forth the name of, and the ownership interest of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and each Subsidiary in, each Subsidiary as of the Restatement Effective Date.
Subsidiaries.
SECTION 3.13. As of the Restatement Effective Date, all premiums in respect of all material insurance maintained by or on behalf of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries that are required to have been paid have been paid. Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower believe that the insurance maintained by or on behalf of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries is adequate in all material respects.
Insurance.
 
SECTION 3.14. As of the Restatement Effective Date, there are no strikes, lockouts or slowdowns against Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary pending or, to the knowledge of Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower, threatened that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as could not be reasonably expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, (a) the hours worked by and payments made to employees of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries have not been in violation of the Fair Labor Standards Act or any other applicable Federal, state, local or foreign law dealing with such matters, (b) all payments due from Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or for which any claim may be made against Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary, on account of wages and employee health and welfare insurance and other benefits, have been paid or accrued as a liability on the books of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or such Subsidiary and (c) the execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents by Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will not give rise to any right of termination or right of renegotiation on the part of any union under any collective bargaining agreement to which Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary is bound.
Labor Matters.
SECTION 3.15. The obligations of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower under the Loan Documents constitute "Senior Indebtedness" under and as defined in the Senior Note Documents.
Senior Indebtedness.
SECTION 4.01. The effectiveness of the amendment and restatement of the Existing Credit Agreement and of the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02):
Restatement Effective Date.
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement (a "Lender Addendum") signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy transmission of a signed Lender Addendum) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
(b) The Guarantee Agreement shall have been duly executed by Intermediate Holdings and delivered to the Administrative Agent.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Restatement Effective Date) of each of (i)(A) Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, United States counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-1(A) and (B) William L. Hudson, General Counsel of Intermediate
 
Holdings, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-1(B), and (ii) Maples and Calder, Cayman Islands counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-2. Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower hereby requests such counsel to deliver such opinions.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization or incorporation, existence and good standing of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower, the authorization of the execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents by Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower and any other legal matters relating to Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower or the Loan Documents, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
(e) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Restatement Effective Date and signed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of the Borrower, confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02.
(f) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts (i) in respect of the Existing Credit Agreement (including all accrued and unpaid fees set forth in Section 2.11 of the Existing Credit Agreement) and (ii) due and payable on or prior to the Restatement Effective Date, including in each case, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel) required to be reimbursed or paid by Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower under any Loan Document.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Restatement Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the effectiveness of the amendment and restatement of the Existing Credit Agreement and of the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective unless each of the foregoing conditions is satisfied (or waived pursuant to Section 9.02) at or prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on October 13, 2006 (and, in the event such conditions are not so satisfied or waived, the Commitments hereunder shall terminate at such time).
SECTION 4.02. The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing, and of the Issuing Bank to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, is subject to receipt of the request therefor in accordance herewith and to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Each Credit Event.
(a) The representations and warranties of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower set forth in the Loan Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing or the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date
 
(in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date).
(b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Each Borrowing and each issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section 4.02. For purposes of the foregoing, the term "Borrowing" shall not include the continuation or conversion of Loans in which the aggregate amount of such Loans is not being increased.
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 5.01. Intermediate Holdings will furnish to the Administrative Agent:
Financial Statements and Other Information.
(a) within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of Intermediate Holdings, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all reported on by Ernst & Young LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit or any other material qualification or exception) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial condition and results of operations of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied;
(b) within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of Intermediate Holdings, its unaudited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and the then-elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of its Financial Officers as
 
presenting fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial condition and results of operations of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes;
(c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under paragraph (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Person delivering such financial statements (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Section 6.11 and Section 6.12, (iii) stating whether any material change in GAAP or in the application thereof has occurred since the date of Intermediate Holdings's audited financial statements referred to in Section 3.04 and, if any such change has occurred, specifying the effect of such change on the financial statements accompanying such certificate and (iv) identifying any Material Acquisitions that have been consummated by the Borrower or any Subsidiary since the end of the previous fiscal quarter, including the date on which each such Material Acquisition was consummated and the consideration therefor;
(d) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the SEC or with any national securities exchange not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto;
(e) promptly following any request therefor, on and after the effectiveness of the Pension Act, copies of (i) any documents described in Section 101(k)(1) of ERISA that the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates have requested with respect to any Multiemployer Plan and (ii) any notices described in Section 101(l)(1) of ERISA that the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates have requested with respect to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; that if the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates have not requested such documents or notices from the administrator or sponsor of the applicable Plan or Multiemployer Plan, Borrower or its ERISA Affiliate(s), as applicable, shall promptly make a request for such documents or notices from the such administrator or sponsor and shall provide copies of such documents and notices promptly after receipt thereof; and
provided
(f) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of any Loan Document, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender, through the Administrative Agent, may reasonably request (including information required by the USA Patriot Act).
 
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b) (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and, if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the internet at or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on IntraLinks/IntraAgency or another relevant website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent), that (A) upon written request by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent for further distribution to each Lender until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent and (B) the Borrower shall notify (which may be by facsimile or electronic mail) the Administrative Agent of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (, soft copies) of such documents. Each Lender shall be solely responsible for timely accessing posted documents or requesting delivery of paper copies of such documents from the Administrative Agent and maintaining its copies of such documents.
http://www.seagate.com
provided
i.e.
SECTION 5.02. Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will furnish, promptly upon Intermediate Holdings's or the Borrower's obtaining knowledge thereof, to the Administrative Agent written notice of the following:
Notices of Material Events.
(a) the occurrence of any Default;
(b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in material liability of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole;
(d) the occurrence of any change to the rating of any Indebtedness of the Borrower by S&P, Moody's or, after an election by the Borrower pursuant to the last paragraph of the definition of the term Applicable Margin, Fitch; and
(e) any other development that results in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect.
Each notice delivered under this Section 5.02 shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower, as applicable, setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto.
SECTION 5.03. Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will, and will cause each of its subsidiaries to, do or cause to
Existence; Conduct of Business.
 
be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect (a) its legal existence and (b) the rights, contracts, licenses, permits, privileges, franchises, patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade names used in the conduct of the business of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, except, in the case of clause (b) of this Section 5.04, to the extent that the failure to take any such action could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.03 or any sale of assets permitted under Section 6.05.
provided
SECTION 5.04. Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will, and will cause each of its subsidiaries to, pay its Material Indebtedness and material Tax liabilities, before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP, (c) such contest effectively suspends collection of the contested obligation and the enforcement of any Lien securing such obligation and (d) the failure to make payment pending such contest could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Payment of Obligations.
SECTION 5.05. Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will, and will cause each of its subsidiaries to, keep and maintain all material property necessary to the conduct of the business of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
Maintenance of Properties.
SECTION 5.06. Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will, and will cause each of its subsidiaries to, maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies insurance in such amounts (with no greater risk retention) and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies of established repute engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations. The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent, upon request, information in reasonable detail as to the insurance so maintained.
Insurance.
SECTION 5.07. Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will, and will cause each of its subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all material dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities. Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will, and will cause each of its subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers and independent accountants, all at such reasonable times and at such reasonable intervals as may be reasonably requested, that any such visit or inspection by a Lender other than the Administrative Agent shall be coordinated by (and any request for such a visit or inspection shall be presented through) the Administrative Agent.
Books and Records; Inspection Rights.
provided
 
SECTION 5.08. Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will, and will cause each of its subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws.
SECTION 5.09. The proceeds of the Loans made on the Restatement Effective Date will be used to repay all Loans and other amounts outstanding under the Existing Credit Agreement, if any, on the Restatement Effective Date. Thereafter, the proceeds of the Loans will be used only for working capital and other general corporate purposes. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X. Letters of Credit will be issued only to support obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary incurred in the ordinary course of business.
Use of Proceeds and Letters of Credit.
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have expired or been terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 6.01. (a) Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except:
Indebtedness.
(i) Indebtedness created under the Loan Documents;
(ii) the Senior Notes and extensions, renewals, refinancings and replacements of the Senior Notes that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof or result in an earlier maturity date or decreased weighted average life thereof and that do not contain covenants that are more restrictive from the Borrower's perspective than the covenants contained in the Senior Notes;
(iii) Indebtedness existing on the date hereof and set forth in Schedule 6.01 and extensions, renewals, refinancings and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof or result in an earlier maturity date or decreased weighted average life thereof;
(iv) Indebtedness (x) of Intermediate Holdings to the Borrower or any Subsidiary, (y) of the Borrower to Intermediate Holdings or any Subsidiary and (z) of any Subsidiary (other than any SPE Subsidiary) to Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any other Subsidiary;
 
(v) Guarantees (x) by Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower of Indebtedness or Permitted Obligations of any Subsidiary, (y) by the Borrower of Indebtedness or Permitted Obligations of Intermediate Holdings and (z) by any Subsidiary of Indebtedness or Permitted Obligations of Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower (other than any Indebtedness of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower permitted by clause (a)(ii) or (a)(ix) of this Section) or any other Subsidiary, that such Indebtedness or Permitted Obligations is otherwise permitted hereunder;
provided
(vi) Indebtedness of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of workers' compensation claims, self-insurance obligations, performance bonds, surety, appeal or similar bonds and completion guarantees provided by the Borrower and the Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of their business, that upon the incurrence of Indebtedness with respect to reimbursement type obligations regarding workers' compensation claims, such obligations are reimbursed within 30 days following such incurrence;
provided
(vii) Indebtedness of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary representing deferred compensation to employees of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary incurred in the ordinary course of business of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary, consistent with the historical practices of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or such Subsidiary;
(viii) drawings under Overdraft Facilities, that any drawing that is not repaid in full on the Business Day following the day that such drawing was made shall not be permitted by this clause (viii);
provided
(ix) other Indebtedness, that (A) at the time of any incurrence of Indebtedness pursuant to this clause (ix), after giving effect to such incurrence, the aggregate principal amount of all Indebtedness outstanding pursuant to this clause (ix) shall not exceed an amount that is equal to 10% of Consolidated Total Assets as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year of Intermediate Holdings and (B) the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness incurred by the Subsidiaries pursuant to this clause (ix) (the "") and (ii) the Permitted Secured Debt Amount, in each case at any time outstanding, shall not exceed the Permitted Priority Debt Amount, that if the sum of the Permitted Subsidiary Debt Amount and the Permitted Secured Debt Amount outstanding at the time an Investment Grade Period ends exceeds the Permitted Priority Debt Amount that would be permitted at the time the succeeding Non-Investment Grade Period commences, then the amount of such excess (less the amount by which the Permitted Subsidiary Debt Amount and the Permitted Secured Debt Amount are reduced during such succeeding Non-Investment Grade Period) shall be deemed to be permitted under this Section 6.01(a)(ix); and
provided
Permitted Subsidiary Debt Amount
provided
(x) any Permitted Receivables Financing.
 
(b) Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its subsidiaries to, issue any preferred Equity Interests, except that Intermediate Holdings may issue preferred shares or other preferred Equity Interests that do not require mandatory cash dividends or redemptions and do not provide for any right on the part of the holder to require redemption, repurchase or repayment thereof, in each case prior to the date that is 91 days after September 19, 2011.
SECTION 6.02. Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, or assign or sell any income or revenues (including accounts receivable) or rights in respect thereof, except:
Liens.
(a) Permitted Encumbrances;
(b) any Lien on any property or asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary existing on the date hereof and set forth in Schedule 6.02, that (i) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary and (ii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations that it secures on the date hereof and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;
provided
(c) Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of setoff or similar rights;
(d) Liens in favor of a landlord on leasehold improvements in leased premises;
(e) Liens arising from Permitted Investments described in clause (d) of the definition of the term Permitted Investments;
(f) Liens arising under any Permitted Receivables Financing;
(g) other Liens securing Indebtedness, that the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness secured pursuant to this clause (g) (the "") and (ii) the Permitted Subsidiary Debt Amount, in each case at any time outstanding, shall not exceed the Permitted Priority Debt Amount, that if the sum of the Permitted Subsidiary Debt Amount and the Permitted Secured Debt Amount outstanding at the time an Investment Grade Period ends exceeds the Permitted Priority Debt Amount that would be permitted at the time the succeeding Non-Investment Grade Period commences, then the amount of such excess (less the amount by which the Permitted Subsidiary Debt Amount and the Permitted Secured Debt Amount are reduced during such succeeding Non-Investment Grade Period) shall be deemed to be permitted under this Section 6.02(g); and
provided
Permitted Secured Debt Amount
provided
(h) during any Non-Investment Grade Period, Liens incurred during any prior Investment Grade Period pursuant to clause (g) of this Section 6.02 and
 
outstanding at the end of the immediately preceding Investment Grade Period, that such Liens could not be classified as Liens created, incurred, assumed or permitted pursuant to clauses (a) through (f) of this Section 6.02.
provided
SECTION 6.03. (a) Neither Intermediate Holdings nor the Borrower will merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower, or liquidate or dissolve, nor will Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all the assets of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (whether directly or through the sale, transfer, lease or other disposition of the assets of one or more Subsidiaries), except that, if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Default shall have occurred and be continuing, any Person may merge with Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower in a transaction in which the surviving entity is a Person organized or existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof, the District of Columbia or the Cayman Islands and, if such surviving entity is not Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower, as the case may be, such Person expressly assumes, in writing, all the obligations of Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower, as the case may be, under the Loan Documents, that any such merger involving a Person that is not a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower immediately prior to such merger shall not be permitted unless also permitted by Sections 6.04 and 6.08.
Fundamental Changes.
provided
(b) Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its subsidiaries to, engage to any material extent in any business other than (i) businesses of the type conducted by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries on the date of execution of this Agreement and businesses reasonably related, ancillary or complementary thereto and (ii) in the case of the SPE Subsidiaries, Permitted Receivables Financings.
SECTION 6.04. Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its subsidiaries to, purchase, hold or acquire (including pursuant to any merger with any Person that was not a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower prior to such merger) any Equity Interests in or evidences of Indebtedness or other securities (including any option, warrant or other right to acquire any of the foregoing) of, make or permit to exist any loans or advances to, Guarantee any obligations of, or make or permit to exist any investment or any other interest in, any other Person, or purchase or otherwise acquire (in one transaction or a series of transactions) any assets of any other Person constituting a business unit (any of the foregoing, an ""), except:
Investments, Loans, Advances, Guarantees and Acquisitions.
Investment
(a) Permitted Investments;
(b) investments existing on the date hereof and set forth on Schedule 6.04;
(c) investments by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries in Equity Interests in each other (other than in any SPE Subsidiary);
 
(d) loans or advances (x) made by Intermediate Holdings to the Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than any SPE Subsidiary), (y) made by the Borrower to any Subsidiary (other than any SPE Subsidiary) and (z) made by any Subsidiary to Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any other Subsidiary (other than any SPE Subsidiary);
(e) Guarantees constituting Indebtedness permitted by Section 6.01 and Guarantees of Permitted Obligations permitted by Section 6.01;
(f) investments received in connection with the bankruptcy or reorganization of, or settlement of delinquent accounts and disputes with, customers and suppliers, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
(g) any investments in or loans to any other Person received as non-cash consideration for sales, transfers, leases and other dispositions permitted by Section 6.05;
(h) Guarantees by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries of leases other than Capital Lease Obligations entered into by any Subsidiary as lessee;
(i) extensions of credit in the nature of accounts receivable or notes receivable in the ordinary course of business;
(j) investments in payroll, travel and similar advances to cover matters that are expected at the time of such advances ultimately to be treated as expenses for accounting purposes and that are made in the ordinary course of business;
(k) investments in or acquisitions of stock, obligations or securities received in settlement of debts created in the ordinary course of business and owing to Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or in satisfaction of judgments;
(l) investments in the form of Swap Agreements permitted under Section 6.06;
(m) investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions resulting from a foreclosure by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary with respect to any secured investment or other transfer of title with respect to any secured investment in default;
(n) investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions the consideration for which consists solely of shares of common stock of Intermediate Holdings;
(o) investments arising as a result of any Permitted Receivables Financing;
 
(p) other Investments, that (i)(A) no Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from any such Investment, (B) in the case of any such Investment in an amount that exceeds $100,000,000, Intermediate Holdings is in compliance, on a pro forma basis after giving effect to any such Investment (after giving effect to any reduction in operating expenses permitted to be included for this purpose in the calculation set forth in the definition of the term Consolidated EBITDA), with the covenants contained in Section 6.11 and Section 6.12 recomputed as of the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter of Intermediate Holdings for which financial information is available, as if such Investment (and any related incurrence or repayment of Indebtedness, with any new Indebtedness being deemed to be amortized over the applicable testing period in accordance with its terms) had occurred on the first day of each relevant period for testing such compliance and (C) in the case of any such Investment in an amount that exceeds $100,000,000, the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate from a Financial Officer of Intermediate Holdings that certifies compliance with clauses (i)(A) and (i)(B) above, together with all relevant financial information for the Person or assets to be acquired and reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with the requirement set forth in clause (i)(B) above, and (ii) in the case of Investments made during any Non-Investment Grade Period, after giving effect to such Investment and any related Borrowing, the Liquidity Amount shall not be less than $800,000,000; and
provided
(q) prepayments or advances to vendors or suppliers of semiconductors in connection with any guarantee of supply by, or to fund the expansion of supply capacity by, such vendor or supplier, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 at any one time outstanding.
SECTION 6.05. During a Non-Investment Grade Period, each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its subsidiaries to, sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of any asset, including any Equity Interest owned by it, except:
Asset Sales.
(a) sales of inventory, used or surplus equipment and Permitted Investments in the ordinary course of business and periodic clearance of aged inventory;
(b) sales, transfers and other dispositions of Equity Interests to Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than any SPE Subsidiary);
(c) sales of assets received by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary upon the exercise of a power of sale or foreclosure by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary with respect to any secured investment or other transfer of title with respect to any secured investment in default;
(d) licensing and cross-licensing arrangements entered into in the ordinary course of business of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary involving any technology or other intellectual property of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or such Subsidiary;
 
(e) sales, transfers and other dispositions by any Subsidiary to Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower;
(f) sales, transfers and other dispositions of Receivables and Related Assets pursuant to any Permitted Receivables Financing;
(g) sales, transfers and other dispositions that are not permitted by any other clause of this Section 6.05, that the aggregate fair market value of all assets sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of in reliance upon this clause (g) shall not exceed during any fiscal year of Intermediate Holdings the amount that is equal to 10% of Consolidated Total Assets as of the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year of Intermediate Holdings;
provided
(h) licensing of assets that constitute technology or other intellectual property to joint ventures in connection with investments permitted by Section 6.04; and
(i) sales of assets pursuant to a transaction permitted by Section 6.03(a),
that all sales, transfers, leases and other dispositions permitted hereby (other than those permitted by clause (b) or (e) above) shall be made for fair market value.
provided
SECTION 6.06. Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its subsidiaries to, enter into any Swap Agreement, except (a) Swap Agreements entered into to hedge or mitigate risks to which Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary has actual exposure (other than those in respect of Equity Interests of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary) and (b) Swap Agreements entered into in order to effectively cap, collar or exchange interest rates (from fixed to floating rates, from one floating rate to another floating rate or otherwise) with respect to any interest-bearing liability or investment of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries may enter into Swap Agreements in respect of Equity Interests in Intermediate Holdings providing for payments to current or former directors, officers or employees of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries or their heirs or estates (and may make such payments), in the same circumstances and amounts that Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries are then permitted to make Restricted Payments to such current or former directors, officers or employees pursuant to Section 6.07, and any payments made pursuant to this proviso during any fiscal year shall be deemed to reduce the amount of Restricted Payments available during such fiscal year under Section 6.07.
Swap Agreements.
provided
SECTION 6.07. During any Non-Investment Grade Period, the Borrower will not, and Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will not permit any of their respective subsidiaries to, declare or make, or agree to pay or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, except that:
Restricted Payments.
(a) the Borrower and the Subsidiaries may declare and pay dividends ratably with respect to their Equity Interests payable solely in additional shares of their Equity Interests;
 
(b) the Subsidiaries may declare and pay dividends or distributions ratably with respect to their Equity Interests;
(c) other Restricted Payments consisting of redemptions and repurchases in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000,000 during the term of this Agreement;
(d) other Restricted Payments consisting of cash dividends and cash return of capital distributions in an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000,000 in any four consecutive fiscal quarter period;
(e) other Restricted Payments consisting of redemptions and repurchases in an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000,000 in any four consecutive fiscal quarter period; and
(f) other Restricted Payments not otherwise permitted under this Section 6.07, that, after giving effect to each such Restricted Payment and any related Borrowing, the Liquidity Amount shall not be less than $800,000,000.
provided
SECTION 6.08. Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its subsidiaries to, sell, lease or otherwise transfer any property or assets to, or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any property or assets from, or otherwise engage in any other transactions with, any of its Affiliates, except (a) transactions that are at prices and on terms and conditions not less favorable to Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or such Subsidiary than could be obtained on an arm's-length basis from unrelated third parties, (b) transactions between or among Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries (other than any SPE Subsidiary) not involving any other Affiliate, (c) any issuance of securities, or other payments, awards or grants in cash, securities or otherwise pursuant to, or the funding of, employment arrangements, stock options and stock ownership plans approved by the board of directors of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary, (d) the grant of stock options or similar rights to officers, employees, consultants and directors of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary pursuant to plans approved by the board of directors of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or, in the case of any such grant to an officer, employee, consultant or director of any Subsidiary, such Subsidiary and the payment of amounts or the issuance of securities pursuant thereto and (e) Restricted Payments permitted by Section 6.07.
Transactions with Affiliates.
SECTION 6.09. Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, enter into, incur or permit to exist any agreement or other arrangement that prohibits, restricts or imposes any condition upon (a) the ability of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary to create, incur or permit to exist any Lien upon any of its
Restrictive Agreements.
 
property or assets to secure the obligations of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower under the Loan Documents or (b) the ability of any Subsidiary to pay dividends or other distributions with respect to any shares of its capital stock or to make or repay loans or advances to Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any other Subsidiary or to Guarantee Indebtedness of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any other Subsidiary, that (i) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions imposed by law or any Loan Document, (ii) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions existing on the date hereof imposed by any Senior Note Document or identified on Schedule 6.09 (but shall apply to any extension or renewal of, or any amendment or modification expanding the scope of, any such restriction or condition), (iii) the foregoing shall not apply to customary restrictions and conditions contained in agreements relating to the sale of any Subsidiary pending such sale, such restrictions and conditions apply only to such Subsidiary and such sale is permitted hereunder, (iv) the foregoing shall not apply to customary restrictions on or customary conditions to the payment of dividends or other distributions on, or the creation of Liens over, Equity Interests owned by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary in any joint venture or like enterprise that is not a Subsidiary contained in the constitutive documents of such joint venture or enterprise, (v) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions or conditions imposed by any agreement relating to Indebtedness permitted by subclause (B) of Section 6.01(a)(ix) of this Agreement (which for this purpose shall not include the amount set forth in clause (b) of the definition of "Permitted Priority Debt Amount") if such restrictions or conditions apply only to the property or assets securing such Indebtedness (in the case of clause (a) of the foregoing) and/or only to the Subsidiary incurring such Indebtedness or its subsidiaries (in the case of clause (b) of the foregoing), (vi) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to customary provisions in leases or licenses (or sublicenses) of intellectual or similar property restricting the assignment, subletting or transfer thereof, (vii) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions or conditions imposed by any agreement relating to any Permitted Receivables Financing, that such restrictions or conditions apply only to the Receivables and the Related Assets that are the subject of such Permitted Receivables Financing, and (viii) the foregoing shall not apply to customary restrictions or conditions imposed on any SPE Subsidiary pursuant to any Permitted Receivables Financing.
provided
provided
provided
SECTION 6.10. Neither Intermediate Holdings nor the Borrower will, nor will Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower permit any of their respective subsidiaries to, amend, modify or waive any of its rights under (a) its certificate of incorporation, by-laws, memorandum or articles of association or other organizational documents or (b) any Senior Note Document, except to the extent that such amendments, modifications or waivers, individually and in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or be materially adverse to the Lenders.
Amendment of Material Documents.
SECTION 6.11. Intermediate Holdings will not permit the ratio of (a) the sum of (i) Consolidated EBITDA for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the last day of any fiscal quarter during any period set forth below (ii) the sum of (A) the amount of cash held by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries and (B) the carrying value of Permitted
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio.
plus
 
Investments that would be reflected as cash or short-term investments on a consolidated balance sheet of Intermediate Holdings on such date, (iii) the aggregate principal amount of Revolving Loans and Swingline Loans outstanding on such date to (b) Consolidated Fixed Charges for such period of four consecutive fiscal quarters (the "") to be less than 1.50 to 1.00.
minus
Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
SECTION 6.12. Intermediate Holdings will not permit the Net Leverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter to exceed 1.50 to 1.00.
Net Leverage Ratio.
SECTION 6.13. Intermediate Holdings will not permit the Liquidity Amount to be less than $500,000,000 at any time.
Minimum Liquidity.
SECTION 7.01. If any of the following events ("Events of Default") shall occur:
Events of Default.
(a) the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan or any reimbursement obligation in respect of any LC Disbursement when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
(b) the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 7.01) payable under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five days;
(c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary in or in connection with any Loan Document or any amendment or modification thereof or waiver thereunder, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with any Loan Document or any amendment or modification thereof or waiver thereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made;
(d) Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section5.02(a), Section 5.03 (with respect to the existence of Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower), Section 5.09 or in Article VI;
 
(e) Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in any Loan Document (other than those specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (d) of this Section 7.01), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender);
 
(f) Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment (whether of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable after giving effect to any applicable grace period with respect thereto;
(g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due or any Permitted Receivables Financing terminating (except voluntary terminations) prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due or any Permitted Receivables Financing to be terminated, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity, that this paragraph (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness;
provided
(h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or, subject to Section 7.02, any Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator, liquidator or similar official for Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or, subject to Section 7.02, any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
(i) Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or, subject to Section 7.02, any Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking dissolution, winding-up, liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in paragraph (h) of this Section 7.01, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator, liquidator or similar official for Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or, subject to Section 7.02, any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
 
(j) Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or, subject to Section 7.02, any Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
(k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $50,000,000 (net of amounts covered by insurance as to which the insurer has admitted liability in writing) shall be rendered against Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 30 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or levy upon any assets of Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment;
(l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(m) a Change in Control shall occur; or
(n) the Guarantee under the Guarantee Agreement for any reason shall cease to be in full force and effect (other than in accordance with its terms), or Intermediate Holdings shall deny in writing that it has any further liability under the Guarantee Agreement (other than as a result of the discharge of Intermediate Holdings in accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents);
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to the Borrower described in paragraph (h) or (i) of this Section 7.01), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to the Borrower, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower; and in case of any event with respect to the Borrower described in paragraph (h) or (i) of this Section 7.01, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower.
SECTION 7.02. Solely for the purposes of determining whether a Default has occurred under paragraph (h), (i) or (j) of
Exclusion of Immaterial Subsidiaries.
 
Section 7.01, any reference in any such clause to any Subsidiary shall be deemed not to include any Subsidiary affected by any event or circumstance referred to in any such clause that did not, as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of Intermediate Holdings most recently ended, have assets with a value in excess of 5.0% of the Consolidated Total Assets as of such date, that if it is necessary to exclude more than one Subsidiary from clause (h), (i) or (j) of Section 7.01 pursuant to this Section 7.02 in order to avoid a Default thereunder, all excluded Subsidiaries shall be considered to be a single consolidated Subsidiary for purposes of determining whether the condition specified above is satisfied.
provided
Each of the Lenders and the Issuing Bank hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms of the Loan Documents, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Except to the extent expressly provided in this Article VIII, the provisions of this Article VIII are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Issuing Bank, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth in the Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated by the Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary or believed by the Administrative Agent in good faith to be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02), and (c) except as expressly set forth in the Loan Documents, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as
 
shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or wilful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with any Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered thereunder or in connection therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth in any Loan Document or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of any Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere in any Loan Document, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
The Administrative Agent may perform any of and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any of and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article VIII shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or the Issuing Bank, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or the Issuing Bank unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or the Issuing Bank prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit.
Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time upon notice to the Lenders, the Issuing Bank and the Borrower. Upon any such
 
resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, subject to the approval of the Borrower (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Bank, appoint a successor Administrative Agent that shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all its duties and obligations under the Loan Documents in its capacity as Administrative Agent. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article VIII and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon any Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished thereunder.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, none of the Joint Arrangers, Sole Bookrunner, Syndication Agent or Co-Document Agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under any Loan Document, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, a Lender or an Issuing Bank hereunder.
SECTION 9.01. Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone, all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices.
(a) if to Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower, to it at 920 Disc Drive, Scotts Valley, California 95066, Attention of Richard Caloca (Telecopy No. (831) 439-2353);
 
(b) if to the Administrative Agent, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Loan and Agency Services Group, 1111 Fannin, 10
th
Floor, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention of Shadia Aminu (Telecopy No. (713) 750-2878), with copies to JPMorgan, 560 Mission Street, San Francisco, California 94105, Attention of William Rindfuss (Telecopy No. (415) 315-8586) and to JPMorgan, 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017, Attention of Padmini Persaud (Telecopy No. (212) 270-4164);
(c) if to an Issuing Bank other than the Administrative Agent, to it at the address or telecopy number set forth separately in writing;
(d) if to the Swingline Lender, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Loan and Agency Services Group, 1111 Fannin, 10
th
Floor, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention of Shadia Aminu (Telecopy No. (713) 750-2878); and
(e) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Notices and other communications to the Lenders and any Issuing Bank hereunder may also be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or the Issuing Bank pursuant to Article II if such Lender or the applicable Issuing Bank, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
provided
provided
SECTION 9.02. (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender in exercising any right or power under any Loan Document shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders under the Loan Documents are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of any Loan Document or consent to any departure by Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall
Waivers; Amendments.
 
be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section 9.02, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Issuing Bank may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time. No notice or demand on Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower in any case shall entitle Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower to any other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances.
(b) Except as provided in Section 2.20 with respect to any Revolving Increase Amendment, neither this Agreement nor any other Loan Document nor any provision hereof or thereof may be waived, amended or modified except, in the case of this Agreement, pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Required Lenders or, in the case of any other Loan Document, pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower, if they are parties thereto, and the Administrative Agent, in each case with the consent of the Required Lenders, that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iii) postpone the final maturity of any Loan or the required date of reimbursement of any LC Disbursement, or any required date for the payment of any interest or fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such required payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.17(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) change any of the provisions of this Section 9.02 or the percentage set forth in the definition of the term "Required Lenders" or any other provision of any Loan Document specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights thereunder or make any determination or grant any consent thereunder, without the written consent of each Lender, (vi) release Intermediate Holdings from its Guarantee under the Guarantee Agreement (except as expressly provided in the Guarantee Agreement), or limit its liability in respect of such Guarantee, without the written consent of each Lender, or (viii) change the definition of the term "Interest Period" to permit the Borrower to select interest periods of 9 or 12 months for Eurodollar Borrowings without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby; that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender under this Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be. In connection with any proposed amendment, modification, waiver or termination (a "") requiring the consent of all affected Lenders, if the consent of the Required Lenders to such Proposed Change is obtained, but the consent to such Proposed Change of other Lenders whose consent is required is not obtained (any such Lender whose consent is not obtained as described in this Section 9.02(b) being
provided
pro
rata
provided
further
Proposed Change
 
referred to as a ""), then, so long as the Lender that is acting as the Administrative Agent is not a Non-Consenting Lender, at the Borrower's request, any assignee that is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent (and that is not a Non-Consenting Lender) shall have the right, with the prior consent of the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender and each Issuing Bank (which consent (x) shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and (y) in the case of any consent required by any Issuing Bank, shall be deemed to have been given in the event that such Issuing Bank fails to respond in writing to a request for consent within two Business Days of receipt thereof), to purchase from such Non-Consenting Lender, and such Non-Consenting Lender agrees that it shall, upon the Borrower's request, sell and assign to such assignee, at no expense to such Non-Consenting Lender (including with respect to any processing and recordation fees that may be applicable pursuant to Section 9.04(b)(ii)(c), which shall be paid by the assignee or the Borrower), all the Commitments and Revolving Exposure of such Non-Consenting Lender for an amount equal to the principal balance of all Revolving Loans (and funded participations in Swingline Loans and unreimbursed LC Disbursements) held by such Non-Consenting Lender and all accrued interest, fees and other amounts with respect thereto through the date of sale (including amounts under Sections 2.14, 2.15 and 2.16), such purchase and sale to be consummated pursuant to an executed Assignment and Acceptance in accordance with Section 9.04(b) (which Assignment and Acceptance need not be signed by such Non-Consenting Lender).
Non-Consenting Lender
SECTION 9.03. (a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates and by MSSF, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of one counsel for the Administrative Agent and MSSF in each applicable jurisdiction, in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and administration of the Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Issuing Bank in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of one counsel each, in each applicable jurisdiction, for the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with the Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section 9.03, or in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
(b) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank, MSSF and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary arising out of, in connection with,
Indemnitee
 
or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of the commitment letter (and related fee letter) with respect to the credit facility contemplated hereby, any Loan Document or any other agreement or instrument contemplated thereby or the performance by the parties to the Loan Documents of their respective obligations thereunder, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the Issuing Bank to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence, Release or threatened Release of Hazardous Materials at, onto or from any property currently or formerly owned or operated by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any other Environmental Liability related in any way to Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or any Subsidiary and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto, that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses resulted from the gross negligence or wilful misconduct of such Indemnitee.
provided
(c) To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 9.03, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender in its capacity as such.
provided
(d) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, neither Intermediate Holdings nor the Borrower shall assert, and each hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, any Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated thereby (including the execution, delivery and performance by Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower of such Loan Document, agreement or instrument), any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. In addition, no Indemnitee shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by others of information or other materials obtained through electronic, telecommunications or other information transmission systems, except to the extent such damages resulted from the gross negligence or wilful misconduct of such Indemnitee.
(e) All amounts due under this Section 9.03 shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor.
(f) No director, officer, employee, stockholder or member, as such, of Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower shall have any liability for the obligations of
 
Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower under the Loan Documents or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation, that the foregoing shall not be construed to relieve Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower of its obligations under any Loan Document.
provided
SECTION 9.04. (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of the Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), except that (i) the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section 9.04. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of the Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (e) of this Section 9.04) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns.
(b) (i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it), that except in the case of an assignment of Loans or Commitments to a Lender or Lender Affiliate, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender and each Issuing Bank must give their prior written consent to such assignment (which consent (x) shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and (y) in the case of any consent required by any Issuing Bank, shall be deemed to have been given in the event that such Issuing Bank fails to respond in writing to a request for consent within two Business Days of receipt thereof); and that no such consent of the Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default under clause (a), (b), (h) or (i) of Section 7.01 has occurred and is continuing.
provided
provided further
(ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions: (A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or a Lender Affiliate or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Revolving Commitment (or, after the Commitments have been terminated, Revolving Exposure), the amount of the Revolving Commitment (or, after the Commitments have been terminated, Revolving Exposure) of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall be an amount not less than $5,000,000, unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of an assignment of all or a portion of a Revolving Commitment or any Lender's obligations in respect of its Swingline Exposure, the Swingline Lender) otherwise consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, that no such consent of the Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default under
provided
 
paragraph (a), (b), (h) or (i) of Section 7.01 has occurred and is continuing, (B) each partial assignment of one Class of an assigning Lender's Commitments or Loans shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under such Class of Commitments or Loans, (C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500, that assignments made pursuant to Section 2.18(b) shall not require the signature of the assigning Lender to become effective, and (D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire and any tax forms required by Section 2.16(e).
provided
(iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(v) of this Section 9.04, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement ( that any liability of the Borrower to such assignee under Section 2.14, Section 2.15 or Section 2.16 shall be limited to the amount, if any, that would have been payable thereunder by the Borrower in the absence of such assignment; and that an assignee that is a Foreign Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.16 unless such assignee agrees to comply with the requirements of Section 2.16(e)), and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.14, Section 2.15, Section 2.16 and Section 9.03 and to any fees payable hereunder that have accrued for such Lender's account but have not yet been paid). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph (b) shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c)(i) of this Section 9.04.
provided
provided
further
(iv) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in The City of New York a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans and LC Disbursements owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower, the Issuing Bank and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(c) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed
 
Administrative Questionnaire and any tax forms required by Section 2.16(e) (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 9.04 and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section 9.04, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Acceptance and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
(d) The words "execution", "signed", "signature" and words of like import in any Assignment and Acceptance shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
(e) (i) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it), that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce the Loan Documents and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of the Loan Documents, that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (f) of this Section 9.04, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.14, Section 2.15 and Section 2.16 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 9.04. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.08 as though it were a Lender, that such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.17(c) as though it were a Lender.
Participant
provided
provided
provided
(ii) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.14 or 2.16 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.16 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 2.16(e) as though it were a Lender.
 
(f) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section 9.04 shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest, that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto. In the case of any Lender that is a fund that invests in bank loans, such Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, assign or pledge all or any portion of any instrument evidencing its rights as a Lender under this Agreement to any trustee for, or any other representative of holders of obligations owed or securities issued by, such fund, as security for such obligations or securities, that any foreclosure or similar action by such trustee or representative shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 9.04 concerning assignments.
provided
provided
(g) In the event that S&P or Moody's shall, after the date that any Lender becomes a Lender, downgrade the long-term certificate deposit ratings or long-term senior unsecured debt ratings of such Lender (or the parent company thereof), and the resulting ratings shall be BBB+ or lower by S&P or Baa1 or lower by Moody's, then each of the Swingline Lender and the Issuing Bank shall have the right, but not the obligation, at its own expense, upon notice to such Lender, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, to replace (or to request the Borrower, at the sole expense of the Swingline Lender or the Issuing Bank, as applicable, to use its reasonable efforts to replace) such Lender with respect to such Lender's Revolving Commitment with an assignee (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in paragraph (b) above, including the right of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent to consent to the identity of such assignee (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed)), and such Lender hereby agrees to transfer and assign without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in paragraph (b) above) all its interests, rights and obligations in respect of its Revolving Commitment to such assignee; , , that (i) no such assignment shall conflict with any law, rule and regulation or order of any Governmental Authority, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts and (iii) the Borrower or such assignee shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the processing and recordation fee specified in Section 9.04(b).
provided
however
(h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle (an ""), identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, the option to provide to the Borrower all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make to the
Granting Lender
SPV
 
Borrower pursuant to this Agreement, that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPV to make any Loan or, except as provided in the immediately succeeding sentence, affect in any way the Commitment of the Granting Lender and (ii) if an SPV elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to provide all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof. The making of a Loan by an SPV hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting Lender. In the event that an SPV provides all or any part of any Loan, Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with the Granting Lender with respect to such Loan, including with respect to the giving of notices and the delivery of financial statements, certificates and other documents (including pursuant to Article V) and information. Each party hereto hereby agrees that no SPV shall be (A) liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement (all liability for which shall remain with the Granting Lender), (B) have any voting rights under Section 9.02 or Article VII or with respect to any other matter under this Agreement to which the Lenders are entitled to give their consent (all of which voting rights shall remain with the Granting Lender) or (C) entitled to receive any greater amount pursuant to Section 2.14, Section 2.15, Section 2.16 or Section 9.03 than the Granting Lender would have been entitled to receive in respect of the amount of any Loan provided by the SPV if the Granting Lender had in fact made such Loan. In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior indebtedness of any SPV, such party will not institute against, or join any other person in instituting against, such SPV any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings under the laws of the United States or any State thereof. In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 9.04, any SPV may (i) with notice to, but without the prior written consent of, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign all or a portion of its interests in any Loans to the Granting Lender or to any financial institutions (consented to by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent) providing liquidity and/or credit support to or for the account of such SPV to support the funding or maintenance of Loans and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety, guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPV. As this Section 9.04(i) applies to any particular SPV, this Section may not be amended without the written consent of such SPV.
provided
SECTION 9.05. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower in the Loan Documents and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to any Loan Document shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of the Loan Documents and the making of any Loans and issuance of any Letters of Credit, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and
Survival.
 
shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Section 2.14, Section 2.15, Section 2.16 and Section 9.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Letters of Credit and the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
SECTION 9.06. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement, the other Loan Documents and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent or the syndication of the Loans and Commitments constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.
SECTION 9.07. Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability.
SECTION 9.08. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any of and all the obligations of the Borrower then existing under this Agreement (to the extent such obligations of the Borrower are then due and payable (by acceleration or otherwise)) held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such Indebtedness. The applicable Lender shall notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent of such setoff and application, that any failure to give or any delay in giving such notice shall not affect the validity of any such setoff and application under this Section 9.08. The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this Section 9.08 are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender and its Affiliates may have.
Right of Setoff.
provided
 
SECTION 9.09. . (a) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
(b) Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to any Loan Document, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in any Loan Document shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to any Loan Document against Intermediate Holdings, the Borrower or their respective properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(c) Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to any Loan Document in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 9.09. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Nothing in any Loan Document will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law. Each of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower hereby appoint Seagate Technology (US) Holdings, Inc. as agent for service of process in the United States and Seagate Technology (US) Holdings, Inc. hereby accepts such appointment.
SECTION 9.10. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.
 
REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION 9.10.
SECTION 9.11. Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings.
SECTION 9.12. Each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to any Loan Document or the enforcement of rights thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section 9.12 (or an agreement to be bound by the provisions of this Section 9.12), to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective direct or indirect contractual counterparties in swap or other derivative agreements or such contractual counterparties' professional advisors, (g) with the consent of the Borrower, (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section 9.12 or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower or (i) to any nationally recognized rating agency that requires access to information about a Lender's investment portfolio in connection with ratings issued with respect to such Lender. In the case of any disclosure of Information pursuant to clause (c) or clause(e) of the preceding sentence, the Administrative Agent will inform the Borrower of such disclosure. For the purposes of this Section 9.12, the term "" means all information received from Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower relating to Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower or their business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by Intermediate Holdings or the Borrower. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section 9.12 shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Confidentiality.
Information
 
SECTION 9.13. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan or participation in any LC Disbursement, together with all fees, charges and other amounts that are treated as interest on such Loan or LC Disbursement or participation therein under applicable law (collectively the ""), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "") that may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan or LC Disbursement or participation therein in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would have been payable in respect of such Loan or LC Disbursement or participation therein but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section 9.13 shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or LC Disbursements or participations therein or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefor) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender.
Interest Rate Limitation.
Charges
Maximum Rate
SECTION 9.14. (a) The Borrower's obligations hereunder and the Borrower's and Intermediate Holdings's obligations under the other Loan Documents to make payments in dollars (the "") shall not be discharged or satisfied by any tender or recovery pursuant to any judgment expressed in or converted into any currency other than the Obligation Currency, except to the extent that such tender or recovery results in the effective receipt by the Administrative Agent or a Lender of the full amount of the Obligation Currency expressed to be payable to the Administrative Agent or such Lender under the Loan Documents. If, for the purpose of obtaining or enforcing judgment against the Borrower or Intermediate Holdings in any court or in any jurisdiction, it becomes necessary to convert into or from any currency other than the Obligation Currency (such other currency being hereinafter referred to as the "") an amount due in the Obligation Currency, the conversion shall be made, at the rate of exchange (as quoted by the Administrative Agent or, if the Administrative Agent does not quote a rate of exchange on such currency, by a known dealer in such currency designated by the Administrative Agent) determined, in each case, as of the date immediately preceding the day on which the judgment is given (such Business Day being hereinafter referred to as the "").
Judgment Currency.
Obligation Currency
Judgment Currency
Judgment Currency Conversion Date
(b) If there is a change in the rate of exchange prevailing between the Judgment Currency Conversion Date and the date of actual payment of the amount due, the Borrower covenants and agrees to pay, or cause to be paid, such additional amounts, if any (but in any event not a lesser amount), as may be necessary to ensure that the amount paid in the Judgment Currency, when converted at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of payment, will produce the amount of the Obligation Currency that could have been purchased with the amount of Judgment Currency stipulated in the judgment or judicial award at the rate of exchange prevailing on the Judgment Currency Conversion Date.
 
(c) For purposes of determining the rate of exchange for this Section 9.14, such amounts shall include any premium and costs payable in connection with the purchase of the Obligation Currency.
SECTION 9.15. Each Lender hereby notifies Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify Intermediate Holdings and the Borrower in accordance with the USA Patriot Act.
USA Patriot Act.
USA Patriot Act
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Investor Relations Contact:
Rod Cooper, (831) 439-2371
rod.cooper@seagate.com
 September 20, 2006  Seagate Technology (NYSE:STX) announced today that it has called for full redemption on October 25, 2006 (the "Redemption Date") its 8% Senior Notes Due 2009 (the "Notes"). The aggregate principal amount of Notes issued and outstanding remains at $400 million.
SCOTTS VALLEY, Calif.
The redemption price for the Notes is $1,040 per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, plus accrued interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date. Accordingly, interest will cease to accrue on all Notes after the close of business on October 24, 2006.
A Notice of Redemption is being sent by U.S. Bank National Association, the trustee for the Notes, to all registered holders of the Notes. Copies of the Notice of Redemption and additional information related to the procedure for redemption may be obtained from U.S. Bank National Association by calling 415-273-4512.
About Seagate
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of hard disc drives, providing products for a wide-range of applications, including Enterprise, Desktop, Mobile Computing, Consumer Electronics and Branded Solutions. Seagate's business model leverages technology leadership and world-class manufacturing to deliver industry-leading innovation and quality to its global customers, and to be the low cost producer in all markets in which it participates. The company is committed to providing award-winning products, customer support and reliability to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at www.seagate.com.
Seagate and Seagate Technology are registered trademarks of Seagate Technology LLC.
page 1
Seagate Technology Announces Full Redemption of 8% Senior Notes Due 2009
2-2-2
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the proposed redemption of our 8% senior notes due 2009. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this press release. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the company's control. In particular, such risks and uncertainties include the impact of conditions in the credit markets generally and, in particular, for companies in the markets in which Seagate operates. Information concerning additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on September 11, 2006. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.


