FILE:STX/STX-8K-20060809171047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On August 8, 2006, we issued a press release to report our financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended June 30, 2006. A copy of that press release was attached as Exhibit 99.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on August 8, 2006. The information contained in that Current Report on Form 8-K and the attached press release was "furnished" but not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In order to be able to incorporate a portion of that information in our filings made pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, including our Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Registration Nos. 333-122149 and 333-134615), we are filing as Exhibit 99.1 hereto a portion of the information contained in the August 8, 2006 Current Report on Form 8-K and attached press release, as well as portions of the information contained in an investor conference call on our earnings results that we held on August 8, 2006. We are also filing as Exhibit 99.2 hereto the press release we issued on August 8, 2006 regarding our share repurchase program in order for it to be incorporated into our filings made pursuant to the Securities Act.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Safe Harbor
This announcement contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the company's future financial performance, including expected revenue and earnings and estimated restructuring, integration and retention expenses resulting from the acquisition and integration of Maxtor, the timeline for the integration of the former Maxtor operations into Seagate, price and product competition, customer demand for our products, and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this announcement. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the company's control. In particular, such risks and uncertainties include Seagate's ability to integrate the Maxtor acquisition into its operations successfully and on a timely basis; the impact of the acquisition of Maxtor on the company's financial results, including without limitation due to charges associated with restructuring, purchase accounting and other related transaction costs, and due to shifting of customer demand to the company's competitors or aggressive competitive pricing specially targeted to encourage such shifting; the impact of the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disc drives, particularly in the near term as that may be impacted by delays in new operating system software and new gaming platform hardware systems; dependence on the company's ability to successfully manufacture in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality its current and new disc drive products, particularly in the near term as the company transitions Maxtor demand to Seagate product offerings; the adverse impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disc drive products; and the possibility that the combination of Seagate and Maxtor will not provide the anticipated benefits to the combined company on the projected timeline, if at all. Information concerning additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 1, 2005; in the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on April 28, 2006; and in the company's Form 8-K, as originally filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on June 1, 2006. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
Quarterly Results
On August 8, 2006, Seagate reported quarterly revenue of $2.5 billion, net income of $7 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.01 for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2006. Included in these results are accounting charges related to the Maxtor acquisition of $146 million and Seagate's non-cash stock based compensation of $17 million. These results compare to revenue of $2.18 billion, net income of $280 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.55 in the year-ago quarter. The year-ago results did not reflect costs associated with non-cash stock based compensation. The acquisition of Maxtor was completed on May 19, 2006, and the financial results announced today include the results of Maxtor operations from May 19 through June 30, 2006. These quarterly results reflect the adverse impact of the competitive pricing environment described below and an under-utilized manufacturing capacity during the ramp-down of Maxtor products and the corresponding ramp-up of Seagate products.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, Seagate reported revenue of $9.2 billion, net income of $840 million and diluted earnings per share of $1.60. These full year results include accounting charges, other costs and related tax effects directly associated with the Maxtor acquisition of $146 million, $74 million for Seagate's non-cash stock-based compensation and $5 million of other non-operating charges. This compares to revenue of $7.55 billion, net income of $707 million and diluted earnings per share of $1.41 for the fiscal year ended July 1, 2005.
Pricing
The average selling price for Seagate products, on a blended basis, decreased approximately $1.00 from the March quarter. In aggregate, price decreases on a "like for like" product basis during the June quarter for Seagate designed products was approximately 7%, which was at the high end of the normal range for price erosion and slightly higher than the company's expectations at the beginning of the quarter, especially for the desktop market. The pricing environment in the June quarter was very competitive and we expect it to remain competitive for the remainder of fiscal year 2007.
Cash and Uses of Cash
Seagate made capital investments during fiscal year 2006 that totaled $1 billion dollars. For fiscal 2007, we expect up to $1.3 billion in capital investment will be required. When we announced the acquisition of Maxtor, we estimated that up to $500 million of cash expenditures would be required. As we enter fiscal 2007, much of this expense is still in front of us, and we are confident that the total cash expenditures related to the Maxtor acquisition will not exceed $500 million.
Inventory
Reported inventory as of June 30, 2006 was $891 million, with approximately $637 million related to Seagate products and $254 million for Maxtor products. The Seagate product inventory increased from the prior quarter by $88 million, with almost the entire increase reflected in finished goods. Seagate's standalone inventory turns decreased to 10.9.
Product Transition
Seagate is on track to complete the transition from Maxtor-designed products to Seagate products prior to December 2006, ahead of our original plans.
Media Supply
We believe there is adequate media capacity planned or in place to meet industry demand. We do continue to see tightness in glass substrates through September and this could result in spot shortages during this quarter. Aluminum substrates remain at very high capacity utilization and appear very tight through December.
Media Expansion
We previously indicated that with the combined Seagate and Maxtor external media supply agreements and Seagate's internal manufacturing capacity we are in a position to relocate the Max media process equipment to Asia at this time. A defined plan is now in place as Seagate will expand media production in Singapore, near our current media facility. We expect it will require approximately 18 months to relocate the process equipment and initiate production at the new site.
Dividend and Stock Repurchase
The company declared a quarterly cash distribution of $0.08 per share to be paid on or before September 1, 2006 to all common shareholders of record as of August 18, 2006.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2006, the company repurchased approximately 16.7 million common shares worth approximately $400 million. The company's board of directors has approved an additional share repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of the company's common shares over the next two years.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
- August 8, 2006 - Seagate Technology (NYSE: STX) today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the company to repurchase up to $2.5 billion of its outstanding shares of common stock over the next 24 months. This program reinforces Seagate's ongoing commitment to enhance shareholder value in which, during fiscal year 2006, Seagate returned over $500 million to its shareholders through stock repurchases and quarterly dividends. Based on today's stock price the new repurchase program announced today would represent approximately 20% of the company's capitalization. As of July 28, 2006 Seagate had approximately 576 million shares of stock outstanding.
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
Seagate expects to fund the stock repurchase through a combination of cash on hand, future cash flow from operations and potential alternative sources of financing. Stock repurchases under this program may be made through a variety of methods, which may include open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, block trades, accelerated share repurchase transactions or otherwise, or by any combination of such methods. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including the stock price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market and economic conditions. The stock repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
About Seagate
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of hard disc drives, providing products for a wide-range of Enterprise, Desktop, Mobile Computing, and Consumer Electronics applications. Seagate's business model leverages technology leadership and world-class manufacturing to deliver industry-leading innovation and quality to its global customers, and to be the low cost producer in all markets in which it participates. The company is committed to providing award-winning products, customer support and reliability to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at .
www.seagate.com


