FILE:STX/STX-8K-20070123164329.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 23, 2007, we issued a press release to report our financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 29, 2006. A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this report and the attached press release is "furnished" but not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 January 23, 2007  Seagate Technology (NYSE: STX) today reported revenue of $3.0 billion, GAAP net income of $140 million, and diluted earnings per share of $0.23 for the quarter ended December 29, 2006. Included in the $3.0 billion of revenue is approximately $200 million from legacy Maxtor designed products. Net income and diluted earnings per share includes approximately $76 million of charges directly associated with the Maxtor acquisition and $19 million for the early retirement of the 8% notes. Excluding these charges, non-GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share were $236 million and $0.39.
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
For the six months ended December 29, 2006 Seagate reported revenue of $5.8 billion, GAAP net income of $159 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.27. Net income and diluted earnings per share includes charges of approximately $158 million directly associated with the Maxtor acquisition, $19 million for the early retirement of the 8% notes and a $3 million favorable adjustment to the restructuring reserve. Excluding these charges, non-GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share were $333 million and $0.56.
Adjustments made to GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share can be found with the financial statements included with this press release.
"Seagate just delivered the industry's first $3 billion quarter, and 30% growth over our year-ago quarter," said Bill Watkins, Seagate's chief executive officer. "These results are driven by the explosive growth in digital content and the resulting growth in demand for storage, as well as by our ability to deliver a broadening suite of products to a growing set of customers. This solid
 
quarter reflects better than expected desktop pricing during the quarter, the successful transition of Maxtor customers to more cost-effective, higher margin Seagate products, and continued operational excellence. With the Maxtor integration substantially complete and exciting new products hitting the market in the current quarter, Seagate is on a path to further increase profitability in the traditionally slower back half of the fiscal year.
"During the December quarter, we shipped a record 7 million disc drives for consumer electronics applications, increased our shipments into the mobile compute market by 52% year-over-year, and continued to solidify our substantial lead in the enterprise and desktop markets. Additional highlights of the quarter include the start of OEM qualification of Seagate's 1.8-inch products; the successful launch of the re-branded Seagate and Maxtor external storage products which included four new Seagate external storage solutions; and the expansion of Seagate's services business with the announced acquisition of EVault, Inc. Our employees have much to be proud of as I believe Seagate's product and operational execution, as well as the company's market presence and visibility, have never been stronger. We have laid the foundation for continued success and growing profitability in 2007."
Additional information relating to the financial results for the second fiscal quarter of 2007 can be found online at .
seagate.com
Business Outlook
For fiscal year 2007, excluding acquisition related costs but including Maxtor's operating results, Seagate expects $11.5-11.7 billion in revenue and $1.70-1.75 for Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. Including approximately $234 million of expected acquisition related costs, $19 million of fees associated with the early redemption of the 8% notes and a favorable adjustment to restructuring reserves of $3 million, GAAP diluted earnings per share would be $1.27-$1.32.
For the March quarter, Seagate expects to report revenue of $2.9-3.0 billion, and diluted earnings per share of $0.56-0.60, excluding acquisition and restructuring related costs. GAAP diluted earnings per share for the March quarter, including approximately $40 million of expected acquisition related costs would be $0.49-0.53.
 
Dividend and Stock Repurchase
The company has declared a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share to be paid on or before February 16, 2007 to all common shareholders of record as of February 2, 2007.
During the quarter ended December 29, 2006, the company purchased and took delivery of approximately 23 million of its common shares. Most of these shares were purchased late in the quarter and had a minimal affect on the average outstanding share calculation. Subsequent to December 29, 2006, the company took delivery of an additional 13 million common shares, which were paid for in the second fiscal quarter. The company has authorization to purchase approximately $1.4 billion of additional shares under the current stock repurchase program.
Conference Call
Seagate will hold a conference call to review the fiscal second quarter results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time today. The conference call can be accessed online at seagate.com or by phone as follows:
USA & Canada: (877) 223-6202
International: (706) 679-3742
Replay
A replay will be available beginning January 23 at 5 p.m. Pacific Time through January 30 at 8:59 p.m. Pacific Time. The replay can be accessed from or by phone as follows:
seagate.com
USA: (800) 642-1687
International: (706) 645-9291
Conference ID: 5770893
Podcast
A podcast featuring Bill Watkins discussing Seagate's performance during the quarter and the outlook going forward can be heard and downloaded from beginning at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time.
http://www.podtech.net/seagate
 
About Seagate
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of hard disc drives, providing products for a wide-range of applications, including Enterprise, Desktop, Mobile Computing, Consumer Electronics and Branded Solutions. Seagate's business model leverages technology leadership and world-class manufacturing to deliver industry-leading innovation and quality to its global customers, and to be the low cost producer in all markets in which it participates. The company is committed to providing award-winning products, customer support and reliability to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at .
www.seagate.com
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the company's future financial performance, including expected revenue and earnings, price and product competition, customer demand for our products, and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this press release. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the company's control. In particular, such risks and uncertainties include the impact of the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disc drives; dependence on the company's ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality its disc drive products, particularly the new disc drive products with lower cost structures and which address the 1.8-inch form factor; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disc drive products, particularly now that there are no material limitations on disc drive component supply for our competitors; the impact of the acquisition of Maxtor on the company's financial results, including without limitation due to charges associated with restructuring, purchase accounting and other related transaction costs; and the possibility that the combination of Seagate and Maxtor will not provide the anticipated benefits to the combined company on the projected timeline, if at all. Information concerning additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on September 11, 2006 and in the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on November 7, 2006. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The non-GAAP financial measures provided herein exclude the impact of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and the related tax effects of these items.
We believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors because they provide an alternative method for measuring the operating performance of the Company's business and for enhancing comparability to prior periods, excluding the impact of the factors identified above. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Footnotes
 
 
 
The non-GAAP financial measures provided herein exclude the impact of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and the related tax effects of these items.
We believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors because they provide an alternative method for measuring the operating performance of the Company's business and for enhancing comparability to prior periods, excluding the impact of the factors identified above. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Footnotes
 
 
 
 


