FILE:STX/STX-8K-20070417162615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On April 17, 2007, we issued a press release to report our financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2007. A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this report and the attached press release is "furnished" but not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our results of operations have undergone significant change in the past year, most significantly in connection with our acquisition of Maxtor. To help the readers of our condensed consolidated financial statements prepared on a GAAP basis better understand our past financial performance and our expectations of our future results, in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, we supplementally disclosed, after making certain non-GAAP adjustments, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted net income per share on a historical basis, as well as forecasts of these non-GAAP financial measures for future periods. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared or presented in accordance with, or an alternative for, GAAP measures, and are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to (i) non-GAAP net income is net income and (ii) non-GAAP diluted net income per share is diluted net income per share. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP information are included in Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income or diluted net income per share prepared in accordance with GAAP. You should not compare our non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP net income per share results with those of other companies, as the adjustments made to our GAAP results are unique to Seagate.
These non-GAAP financial measures are among the primary factors management uses in internal planning, budgeting, calculating bonus payments and forecasting future periods. An explanation of the ways in which our board of directors and management use these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the business, the substance behind our management's decision to use these non-GAAP financial measures, the material limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures, the manner in which Seagate management compensates for those limitations, and the substantive reasons why we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors are set forth below.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by Seagate
Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted net income per share consist of net income or diluted net income per share, excluding charges related to the redemption of $400 million of our 8% Senior Notes previously due 2009, as well as charges relating to the acquisitions of Maxtor and EVault, which include: amortization of purchased intangible assets; stock-based compensation expense related to the acquisition of Maxtor; write-off of in-process research and development; integration and retention costs; settlement of customer compensatory claims relating to legacy Maxtor products; the interest expense related to purchase accounting treatment for fair market value lease amortization related to the Maxtor acquisition, and the tax impact, where applicable, associated with the excluded adjustments. Our management uses these non-GAAP financial measures for purposes of evaluating our historical and prospective financial performance, as well as our performance relative to our competitors. We believe that excluding those items mentioned above in these non-GAAP financial measures allows our board
of directors, management, investors, analysts and other interested parties to better understand Seagate's consolidated financial performance in relationship to the operating results, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of our ongoing core operating results and business outlook and that excluding these items allows us to better understand and analyze trends in our business. These reasons provide the basis for management's belief that the measures are useful. More specifically, our management excludes each of those items mentioned above for the following reasons:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Material Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The non-GAAP financial measures that we present may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of the limitations in relying on these non-GAAP financial measures are:
 
 
 
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We compensate for the limitations on our use of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted net income per share by preparing our financial statements on a GAAP basis to gain a complete
picture of our business. Our non-GAAP financial measures focus only upon our core business that management believes it can directly effect or exercise influence over. Thus, these non-GAAP financial measures only represent a limited reflection of a subset, albeit a critical one, of the business that the management considers it can control and change from period to period. Additionally, we provide detailed reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures within this press release at Exhibit 99.1 hereto and in other written materials that include these non-GAAP measures. We encourage investors to carefully review those reconciliations. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income or diluted net income per share prepared in accordance with GAAP. You should not compare our non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP diluted net income per share results with those of other companies, as the adjustments made to our GAAP results are unique to Seagate.
The Substantive Reasons why Management Believes the Non-GAAP Financial Measures Provide Useful Information to Investors
We believe that providing non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted net income per share to investors in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors with greater transparency to the information used by our management in our financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see our results "through the eyes" of management. We further believe that providing this information better enables our investors to understand our operating performance and to evaluate the efficacy of the methodology and information used by management to evaluate and measure such performance. Investors are encouraged to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP results, which is attached to our quarterly earnings release and which can be found, along with other financial information, on the investor relations page of our Web site at http://www.seagate.com/www/en-us/about/investor_relations/.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 April 17, 2007  Seagate Technology (NYSE: STX) today reported revenue of $2.8 billion, GAAP net income of $212 million, and diluted net income per share of $0.37 for the quarter ended March 30, 2007. Net income and diluted net income per share includes approximately $62 million of charges associated with recent acquisitions. Excluding these charges, non-GAAP net income and diluted net income per share were $274 million and $0.47.
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
For the nine months ended March 30, 2007 Seagate reported revenue of $8.6 billion, GAAP net income of $371 million and diluted net income per share of $0.62. Net income and diluted net income per share include charges of approximately $219 million associated with recent acquisitions and $19 million for the early retirement of the 8% notes. Excluding these charges, non-GAAP net income and diluted net income per share were $609 million and $1.02.
"We are disappointed in our results for the March quarter," said Bill Watkins, Seagate chief executive officer. "We clearly miscalculated the market, and in this unusually challenging environment failed to deliver the projected results. However, it is worth noting that the fundamentals of our business and that of the industry remain solid. Seagate's revenue remained strong, our balance sheet is healthy, and we continued to generate cash for ongoing investments in the capital and R&D required for growth. We are operating at the kind of scale that will allow us to continue to innovate while driving down costs, and thus exercise a great deal of market flexibility. Moving forward, we will align spending with the current outlook, and continue to drive the cost improvements necessary to thrive in this environment."
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2007 Results
 
Adjustments made to GAAP net income and diluted net income per share can be found with the financial statements included with this press release. Additional information relating to the financial results for the third fiscal quarter of 2007 can be found online at .
seagate.com
Business Outlook
For fiscal year 2007, Seagate now expects $11.3-$11.4 billion in revenue and $0.92-$0.96 GAAP diluted net income per share. Including Maxtor's operating result but excluding approximately $247 million of expected acquisition related costs, and $19 million of fees associated with the early redemption of the 8% notes, non-GAAP diluted net income per share is expected to fall within the range of $1.37-$1.41.
For the June quarter, Seagate expects to report revenue of $2.65-$2.75 billion, and GAAP diluted net income per share of $0.29-$0.33. Excluding approximately $28 million of expected acquisition related costs, Non-GAAP diluted net income per share for the June quarter is expected to fall within the range of $0.34-$0.38.
This guidance does not include the impact of any future acquisitions, stock repurchases or restructuring activities the company may undertake.
Dividend and Stock Repurchase
The company has declared a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share to be paid on or before May 18, 2007 to all common shareholders of record as of May 4, 2007.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2007, the company took delivery of approximately 22.6 million of its common shares related to its share repurchase plan. 13.3 million of these shares were repurchased in the December quarter and delivered in January, while the remaining 9.3 million shares were repurchased and delivered during the March quarter. The average price of the shares delivered to the company in the March quarter was $26.26. The company has authorization to purchase approximately $1.175 billion of additional shares under the current stock repurchase program.
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2007 Results
 
Conference Call
Seagate will hold a conference call to review the fiscal second quarter results at 2:30 p.m. Pacific Time today. The conference call can be accessed online at seagate.com or by phone as follows:
USA: (877) 223-6202
International: (706) 679-3742
Conference ID: 3512136
Replay
A replay will be available beginning April 17 at 6:30 p.m. Pacific Time through April 24 at 8:59 p.m. Pacific Time. The replay can be accessed from or by phone as follows:
seagate.com
USA: (800) 642-1687
International: (706) 645-9291
Conference ID: 3512136
Podcast
A podcast featuring Bill Watkins discussing Seagate's performance during the quarter and the outlook going forward can be heard and downloaded from beginning at 2:30 p.m. Pacific Time.
http://www.podtech.net/seagate
About Seagate
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of hard disc drives, providing products for a wide-range of applications, including Enterprise, Desktop, Mobile Computing, Consumer Electronics and Branded Solutions. Seagate's business model leverages technology leadership and world-class manufacturing to deliver industry-leading innovation and quality to its global customers, and aims to be the low cost producer in all markets in which it participates. The company is committed to providing award-winning products, customer support and reliability to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at .
www.seagate.com
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2007 Results
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the company's future operating and financial performance, including expected revenue, net income and diluted earnings per share (presented on a GAAP basis as well as on a non-GAAP adjusted basis), price and product competition, customer demand for our products, and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this press release. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the company's control. In particular, such risks and uncertainties include the impact of the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disc drives; dependence on the company's ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell its disc drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disc drive products with lower cost structures and those that address the 1.8-inch form factor; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disc drive products, particularly now that there are no material limitations on disc drive component supply for our competitors; the impact of the acquisition of Maxtor on the company's financial results, including, without limitation, due to charges associated with retention, integration, purchase accounting and other related transaction costs; and the possibility that the combination of Seagate and Maxtor will not provide the anticipated benefits to the combined company on the projected timeline, if at all. Information concerning additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on September 11, 2006 and in the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 2, 2007. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2007 Results
 
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2007 Results
 
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2007 Results
 
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2007 Results
 
Our results of operations have undergone significant change in the past year, most significantly in connection with our acquisition of Maxtor. To help the readers of our condensed consolidated financial statements prepared on a GAAP basis better understand our past financial performance and our expectations of our future results, we supplementally disclose, after making certain non-GAAP adjustments, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted net income per share. We also provide forecasts of these non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of the adjustments to GAAP net income and diluted net income per share for the quarter and year-to-date periods are presented in the tables below. In addition, an explanation of the ways in which our board of directors and management use these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the business, the substance behind our management's decision to use these non-GAAP financial measures, the material limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures, the manner in which Seagate management compensates for those limitations, and the substantive reasons why we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors is included under the caption "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in the Form 8-K furnished today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income or diluted net income per share prepared in accordance with GAAP. You should not compare our non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP diluted net income per share results with those of other companies, as the adjustments made to our GAAP results are unique to Seagate.
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2007 Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2007 Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


