FILE:STX/STX-8K-20081210060645.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K and according to general instruction B.2. thereunder, the information in this Item 7.01 shall not be deemed "filed" for any purpose, including for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to liability under such Section. The information contained herein shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Company, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On December 10, 2008, at the Barclays 2008 Global Technology Conference, executives of Seagate Technology (the "Company") will provide investors with an update regarding current conditions in the hard drive industry and the Company's expected financial results for its second fiscal quarter of 2009, which ends January 2, 2009.
Specifically, the Company expects to communicate the following:
 
 
As is typical, the demand and pricing environment during the remainder of the month of December will be critical in determining the Company's operating results for its second fiscal quarter of 2009.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the Company's future operating and financial performance, including expected revenue, price and product competition, customer demand for our products, and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this Current Report. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties, and other factors may be beyond the Company's control. In particular, uncertainty in global economic conditions pose a risk to the overall economy as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news. Such risks and uncertainties also include the impact of the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; and the Company's ability to achieve projected cost savings in connection with its restructuring plans. Information concerning risk, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 13, 2008 and in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on October 30, 2008, which statements are incorporated into this Current Report by reference. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 10, 2008
 


