FILE:STX/STX-8K-20081212161352.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 10, 2008, Seagate Technology ("Seagate" or the "Company") borrowed $350 million under its existing $500 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility") pursuant to the Credit Agreement dated November 22, 2005, as amended and restated on September 19, 2006, by and among Seagate, the lenders party thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, as the administrative agent.
The Revolving Credit Facility bears interest per annum at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin of 62.5 basis points, which is subject to change depending on Seagate's credit rating. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility are prepayable at any time prior to maturity without penalty, other than customary breakage costs for LIBORbased loans. A more detailed description of the Revolving Credit Facility can be found in Seagate's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 13, 2008.
The borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility is intended to enhance Seagate's liquidity and cash position as it takes steps to rationalize its production capacity and improve its overall cost structure.
The outstanding balance of the Revolving Credit Facility subsequent to the borrowing described above is approximately $400 million, including $350 million in outstanding loans and approximately $50 million in outstanding letters of credit. The remaining undrawn committed amount of the Revolving Credit Facility after giving effect to the borrowing and outstanding letters of credit described above is approximately $100 million.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 12, 2008
 


