FILE:STX/STX-8K-20080429150419.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) On April 24, 2008, Charles C. Pope notified Seagate Technology ("Seagate") of his intention to retire from his position as Chief Financial Officer as of August 25, 2008. Effective as of August 25, 2008, Mr. Pope will transition to the position of Executive Vice President in charge of the Seagate Services group. Mr. Pope has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Seagate since 1999. From 1998 to 1999 Mr. Pope served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to that, Mr. Pope served as Senior Vice President Finance, Storage Products from 1997 to 1998; Vice President Finance, Storage Products from 1996 to 1997; Vice President/General Manager, Media from 1994 to 1996; Vice President Finance and Treasurer from 1991 to 1994; and Vice President, Finance Far East Operations from 1989 to 1991.
(c) On April 24, 2008, the Board of Directors of Seagate Technology appointed Patrick J. O'Malley to serve as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Seagate, effective as of August 25, 2008. Mr. O'Malley is currently serving as Senior Vice President, Finance, Principal Accounting Officer and Treasurer of Seagate, a position he has held since October 2006. Mr. O'Malley joined Seagate's finance organization as a Finance Manager in March 1988, reaching the position of Senior Vice President, Finance in November 1999. From January 2004 to October 2005, Mr. O'Malley undertook the role of Senior Vice President, Consumer Electronics in the sales and marketing organization. From October 2005 to October 2006, Mr. O'Malley returned to the finance organization as Senior Vice President, Finance, and was responsible for supporting the sales and marketing organization in all finance matters. Upon commencement of his service as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. O'Malley's annual base salary will be $490,000, with a bonus opportunity of 100% of his base salary.
A copy of the press release announcing these developments is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
For More Information Contact:
Brian Ziel (831) 439-5429
brian.ziel@seagate.com
Woody Monroy (831) 439-2838
woody.monroy@seagate.com
SEAGATE
 April 28, 2008  Seagate Technology (NYSE:STX) announced today that a long-standing member of its executive management team, chief financial officer Charles Pope, has elected to retire from his CFO role effective August 25, 2008, and will focus solely on leading the Seagate Services group, a leading provider of data management and protection solutions.
SCOTTS VALLEY, Calif.
In his 24 years at Seagate, Pope has held a variety of financial and operating roles. His responsibilities have included leadership of the company's merger and acquisition activity, portfolio management, the re-engineering of many of Seagate's business processes, and the management of the company's media operations, all culminating in being named Chief Financial Officer in 1998 and subsequently assuming leadership of Seagate Services earlier this year.
Pope will be succeeded by Patrick O'Malley, currently Seagate's senior vice president, Finance Treasury. O'Malley is presently responsible for corporate accounting, reporting, treasury and credit, along with corporate financial planning and analysis and financial support for Seagate's business units, Sales, and other functions. In his previous positions at Seagate since joining the company in 1988, O'Malley has garnered a wealth of relevant experience including the implementation of critical finance and management systems, and the management of the company's Consumer Electronics business unit during its critical first year.
"Charles has played an instrumental role in shaping Seagate's success during years of unprecedented growth both within the company and the storage industry," said Bill Watkins, Seagate CEO. "I am very pleased that Seagate will continue to benefit from Charles' experience and capabilities as he leads Seagate Services going forward. I am also very pleased that the CFO role and responsibilities will transition from Charles to another highly skilled and well-qualified executive within Seagate's Finance organization. Pat O'Malley has been a valued senior executive during some of Seagate's most dramatic years of change, and I have every confidence that he will serve us well as our new CFO."
 
Seagate CFO Charles Pope Plans Transition to New Role, Company Names Patrick O'Malley to Assume CFO Position
2-2-2
About Seagate
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of hard disc drives and storage solutions, providing products for a wide-range of applications, including Enterprise, Desktop, Mobile Computing, Consumer Electronics and Branded Solutions. Seagate's business model leverages technology leadership and world-class manufacturing to deliver industry-leading innovation and quality to its global customers, with the goal of being the time-to-market leader in all markets in which it participates. The company is committed to providing award-winning products, customer support and reliability to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at http://www.seagate.com.
About Seagate Services Group
The mission of the Seagate Services Group (a division of Seagate Technology) is to protect and manage businesses' most valuable information, giving customers the ability to access their data when and as needed. The group's trusted services and solutions are based on the most advanced technologies and are delivered, deployed and managed to suit unique business needs. The group is comprised of EVault, a trusted expert in comprehensive data protection solutions with software and outsourced services for backup, recovery, archiving, business continuity and E-Discovery; Seagate Recovery Services, an industry forerunner and innovator in data recovery, data migration, and data accessibility solutions; and MetaLINCS, a leading provider of enterprise software for intelligent E-Discovery of relevant electronic messages and documents. For more information, please visit http://services.seagate.com.
Seagate, Seagate Technology and the Wave logo are registered trademarks of Seagate LLC.


