FILE:STX/STX-8K-20090624161938.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 24, 2009, Seagate Technology (or the "Company") issued a press release to update its fiscal fourth quarter 2009 financial outlook. A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this report and the attached press release is "furnished" but not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the Company's preliminary results for the June 2009 quarter and its future operating and financial performance in the September 2009 quarter and thereafter, and include statements regarding expected revenue, gross margin, inventory levels, product competition, customer demand for disk drives, product transitions, Seagate's ability to return to profitability, effective tax rates and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this Current Report. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties, and other factors may be beyond the Company's control. In particular, the decline in global economic conditions continues to pose a risk to the Company's operating and financial performance as consumers and businesses have, and may continue to, defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news. Such risks and uncertainties also include the impact of the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; dependence on Seagate's ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell its disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; our ability to achieve projected cost savings in connection with our anticipated and announced restructuring plans; and the impact of changes in foreign and domestic tax regulations. Information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 13, 2008, and in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2009, which statements are incorporated into this Current Report by reference. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 24, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Investor Relations Contact:
Rod Cooper (831.439.2371)
rod.j.cooper@seagate.com
 June 24, 2009  Seagate Technology (NASDAQ: STX) today announced an update to its expected financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, which ends July 3, 2009. Additionally, the Company issued initial planning assumptions for its first fiscal quarter of 2010, which ends on October 2, 2009.
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
Specific to the June 2009 quarter:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Relative to the September 2009 quarter, the Company for planning purposes is assuming:
 
 
 
Seagate Technology Updates Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2009 Financial Outlook
 
 
 
 
 
"The operational and financial performance improvements we have delivered over the last few months are encouraging," said Steve Luczo, Seagate chief executive officer. "We are making successful transitions to our newer, more cost effective and more competitive products. We are returning to our technology leadership position, as evidenced by our time-to-market position with 640GB 2.5-inch and 2TB 3.5-inch products. This progress combined with improved operational efficiencies and product management is accelerating our path to profitability."
About Seagate
Seagate is the worldwide leader in hard disk drives and storage solutions. Learn more at .
seagate.com
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the Company's preliminary results for the June 2009 quarter and its future operating and financial performance in the September 2009 quarter, and thereafter, and include statements regarding expected revenue, gross margin, inventory levels, product competition, customer demand for disk drives, product transitions, the Company's ability to return to profitability, effective tax rates and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this press release. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties, and other factors may be beyond the Company's control. In particular, the decline in global economic conditions continues to pose a risk to the Company's operating and financial performance as consumers and businesses have, and may continue to, defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news. Such risks and uncertainties also include the impact of the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; dependence on Seagate's ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell its disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; our ability to achieve projected cost savings in connection with our anticipated and announced restructuring plans; and the impact of changes in foreign and domestic tax regulations. Information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 13, 2008, and in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2009, which statements are incorporated into this press release by reference. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 


