FILE:STX/STX-8K-20090804080403.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seagate Technology (the "Company") announced on August 4, 2009 that it will close its Ang Mo Kio (AMK) facility in Singapore by the end of calendar year 2010. The hard drive manufacturing operations will be relocated to other existing Seagate facilities and the Company's Asia International Headquarters (IHQ) will remain in Singapore. This closure and relocation is part of the Company's ongoing focus on cost efficiencies in all areas of its business and is intended to facilitate leveraging manufacturing investments across fewer sites. The Company does not expect the closure to meaningfully change production capacity.
The Company currently estimates total restructuring charges of approximately $80 million, all in cash, including approximately $60 million for severance, approximately $10 million for the relocation of manufacturing equipment, and $10 million for other plant closure and relocation costs. The Company expects to record severance charges of up to $60 million as restructuring costs in its Statement of Operations for its first quarter of fiscal year 2010, while the remainder of the restructuring charges are expected to be incurred through the end of calendar year 2010. The Company believes annual savings of approximately $40 million per year will be realized when activities are fully transitioned.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the Company's current expectations regarding its restructuring plans and the associated projected cost savings. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this Current Report. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors may be beyond the Company's control and include the Company's ability to achieve projected cost savings in connection with its restructuring plans. Information concerning risk, uncertainties and other factors that could cause events to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on August 13, 2008 and in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the SEC on May 6, 2009, which statements are incorporated into this Current Report by reference. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and the Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 4, 2009
 


