FILE:STX/STX-8K-20090121163822.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 21, 2009, Seagate Technology (or the "Company") issued a press release to report its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended January 2, 2009. A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this report and the attached press release is "furnished" but not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(e) On January 16, 2009, in connection with the measures designed to lower the Company's cost structure described in Item 2.05 of a Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 14, 2009, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Seagate Technology approved temporary 25% decreases in the annual base salaries of the Named Executive Officers named in the Company's Proxy Statement dated September 19, 2008, and Mr. O'Malley, who was appointed by the Board of Directors to the office of Chief Financial Officer, effective August 25, 2008. The temporary salary reductions will become effective on February 2, 2009. The Compensation Committee will review this action in July 2009, and the duration of the reductions will be based on business conditions.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the company's future operating and financial performance, including expected revenue, net loss and losses per share and product competition, customer demand for our products, the impact of our cost reduction efforts, the estimated charges we expect to incur with respect to the impairment of our goodwill and long-lived assets and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this Current Report. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties, and other factors may be beyond the company's control. In particular, uncertainty in global economic conditions pose a risk to the overall economy as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news. Such risks and uncertainties also include the impact of the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; dependence on Seagate's ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell its disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; our ability to achieve projected cost savings in connection with our announced restructuring plans; and market conditions and alternative cash imperatives that could continue to delay our ability to repurchase additional common shares pursuant to Seagate's previously announced share repurchase program. Information concerning risk, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 13, 2008, and in the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on October 30, 2008, which statements are incorporated into this Current Report by reference. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 January 21, 2009  Seagate Technology (NASDAQ: STX) today reported preliminary results for the quarter ended January 2, 2009 of 37 million disk drive unit shipments, revenue of $2.3 billion, a net loss of $496 million, and net loss per share of $1.02 for the quarter ended January 2, 2009. Net loss and net loss per share for the quarter include $18 million of purchased intangibles amortization and other charges associated with acquisitions, restructuring and related accelerated depreciation charges of $94 million, and a charge of $271 million that reflects an unfavorable adjustment to the valuation allowance related to the company's deferred tax assets. The aggregate impact of these items is a $383 million loss or approximately $0.79 per share loss. Of the $94 million restructuring and related charges, $16 million was for accelerated depreciation charges recorded in cost of revenue ($2 million) and product development expense ($14 million) with the majority of the balance related to the recently disclosed global headcount reduction.
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
For the six months ended January 2, 2009 the company reported preliminary results of disk drive unit shipments of 85 million, revenue of $5.3 billion, a net loss of $436 million, and net loss per share of $0.90. Net loss and net loss per share include $37 million of purchased intangibles amortization and other charges associated with acquisitions, charges related to restructuring activities of $145 million, and a charge of $271 million that reflects an unfavorable adjustment to the valuation allowance related to the company's deferred tax assets. The aggregate impact of these items is a $453 million reduction in earnings, or a decrease of approximately $0.93 per share. Of the $145 million in restructuring related charges, $44 million was for accelerated depreciation charges booked in cost of revenue ($30 million) and product development expense ($14 million) with the majority of the balance related to the previously disclosed global headcount reduction.
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Second Quarter 2009 Results
 
As disclosed on December 24, 2008 via a Form 8-K filing, the company has concluded that it is required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of its goodwill and possibly other long-lived assets. The carrying values of goodwill and other long-lived assets subject to this assessment are approximately $2.3 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. The accompanying results for the quarter ended January 2, 2009 are preliminary, as the various valuation studies and other analyses required to determine the impairment charge(s) have not yet been completed. The company expects this analysis will be completed on a timely basis, and the impact of any impairment charge(s) and any related income tax effects will be reflected in the financial statements to be included in our Form 10-Q that will be filed for the quarter-ended January 2, 2009.
"We remain focused on executing against our business plan and on aligning the company's cost structure with the current economic reality," said Steve Luczo, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We continue to believe that Seagate has a solid future and view the long-term prospects for storage to be positive; however, there are significant near-term challenges facing Seagate that we believe could potentially continue through the end of the calendar year and into 2010. The Board and management team are focused on structuring our business accordingly, building liquidity and strengthening the balance sheet to ensure that we are competitive throughout a period of extended macroeconomic decline. Our technology assets, investments and capabilities remain intact and we are making smarter and faster decisions to improve execution. We continue to believe that the fundamental core strengths that Seagate possesses, when fully leveraged, will result in product leadership across all markets in our industry."
Business Outlook
For the March quarter, in light of the company's view of the current market environment and the uncertainty in global economic conditions, the company is planning for the overall demand for disk drives to be approximately 110 million units. In addition, the company is assuming no significant changes in its market share, and therefore expects revenue to be approximately $1.6 - $2.0 billion. The company will continue to evaluate the demand environment to determine what further actions are necessary to properly align its cost structure with the company's current view of the macroeconomic environment. Additionally, the company expects to incur additional restructuring charges directly related to the recently announced global workforce reduction in the March quarter.
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Second Quarter 2009 Results
 
Current uncertainty in global economic conditions makes it particularly difficult to predict product demand and other related matters and makes it more likely that Seagate's actual results could differ materially from current expectations.
Cash and Liquidity
The company continues to remain focused on building liquidity and strengthening its balance sheet by taking decisive actions to reduce capital spending, lower operating expenses and to align production with demand to limit inventory and therefore believes it will generate or obtain sources of liquidity to support the business.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional information relating to the financial results for the second fiscal quarter of 2009 can be found online at .
seagate.com
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Second Quarter 2009 Results
 
Dividend
The board has approved a quarterly dividend of $0.03 per share to be paid on or before February 20, 2009 to all common shareholders of record as of February 6, 2009.
Conference Call
Seagate will hold a conference call to review the fiscal second quarter results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time today. The conference call can be accessed online at seagate.com or by phone as follows:
USA: (877) 223-6202
International: (706) 679-3742
Conference ID: 78910747
Replay
A replay will be available beginning today at 6:00 p.m. Pacific Time through January 28 at 8:59 p.m. Pacific Time. The replay can be accessed from or by phone as follows:
seagate.com
USA: (800) 642-1687
International: (706) 645-9291
Conference ID: 78910747
About Seagate
Seagate is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of hard disk drives and storage solutions, providing products for a wide-range of applications, including Enterprise, Desktop, Mobile Computing, Consumer Electronics and Branded Solutions. Seagate's business model leverages technology leadership and world-class manufacturing to deliver industry-leading innovation and quality to its global customers, with the goal of being the time-to-market leader in all markets in which it participates. The company is committed to providing award-winning products, customer support and reliability to meet the world's growing demand for information storage. Seagate can be found around the globe and at .
http://www.seagate.com
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the company's future operating and financial performance, including expected revenue, net loss and losses per share and product competition, customer demand for our products, the impact of our cost reduction efforts, the estimated charges we expect to incur with respect to the impairment of our goodwill and long-lived assets and general market conditions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Seagate as of the date of this press release. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties, and other factors may be beyond the company's control. In particular, uncertainty in global economic conditions pose a risk to the overall economy as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news. Such risks and uncertainties also include the impact of the variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; dependence on Seagate's ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell its disk drive
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Second Quarter 2009 Results
 
products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; our ability to achieve projected cost savings in connection with our announced restructuring plans; and market conditions and alternative cash imperatives that could continue to delay our ability to repurchase additional common shares pursuant to Seagate's previously announced share repurchase program. Information concerning risk, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 13, 2008, and in the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on October 30, 2008, which statements are incorporated into this press release by reference. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the company's views as of any subsequent date and Seagate undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Second Quarter 2009 Results
 
 
 
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Second Quarter 2009 Results
 
 
 
 
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Second Quarter 2009 Results
 
 
 
 


