FILE:STX/STX-8K-20100706061354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Changes in Control of Registrant	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Introductory Note
:  As disclosed below, Seagate Technology public limited company, an Irish public limited company (the "Registrant" or "Seagate-Ireland") became the successor to Seagate Technology, an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the Cayman Islands ("Seagate-Cayman"), effective as of July 3, 2010. This Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed for the purpose of establishing the Registrant as the successor issuer pursuant to Rule 12g-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and to timely disclose events required to be disclosed on Form 8-K with respect to the Registrant as of July 3, 2010. Pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act, the ordinary shares (as described in Item 8.01 below) of the Registrant, as successor issuer, are deemed registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.
 
 
Supplemental Indenture
 
On July 3, 2010, Seagate-Ireland entered into a Supplemental Indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture") with Seagate HDD Cayman ("HDD"), Seagate-Cayman and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Supplemental Indenture supplemented the Indenture dated May 13, 2010 (the "Indenture") among Seagate-Cayman, HDD and the Trustee whereby HDD issued and Seagate-Cayman fully and unconditionally guaranteed 6.875% Senior Notes due 2020 (the "Notes").
 
Pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture, Seagate-Ireland succeeded to, was substituted for, and assumed all of the obligations of, Seagate-Cayman as guarantor under the Indenture and the Notes and Seagate-Cayman was released from all obligations and covenants thereunder, as contemplated under Section 10.05(b) of the Indenture.
 
The description of the Supplemental Indenture contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Supplemental Indenture, which is filed herewith Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
 
Assumption of Employee Stock Plans and Awards
 
On July 2, 2010, the Registrant, entered into a Deed Poll of Assumption relating to employee equity compensation plans of Seagate-Cayman (the "Deed Poll"), pursuant to which the Registrant assumed, certain equity incentive related plans, sub-plans and agreements, including, the Seagate Technology 2001 Share Option Plan, the Amended Seagate Technology 2004 Stock Compensation Plan, the Seagate Technology Employee Stock Purchase Plan,
the Maxtor Corporation 2005 Performance Incentive Plan, the Maxtor Corporation Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Option Plan, and the Quantum Corporation Supplemental Stock Option Plan
(collectively, the "Equity Compensation Plans")
, which provide for the grant or award of stock options, restricted stock units, restricted stock, performance shares units and other similar forms of equity awards (collectively, the "Awards").  The Deed Poll provides that the Registrant will undertake and discharge all of the rights and obligations previously discharged by Seagate-Cayman under the Equity Compensation Plans and the Awards, and exercise all of the powers previously exercised by Seagate-Cayman under the Equity Compensation Plans. All outstanding Seagate-Cayman equity awards issued before July 3, 2010 and all Awards remain subject to the same terms and conditions as in effect immediately prior to their assumption by the Registrant, except that upon the vesting or exercise of those awards, ordinary shares of the Registrant shall be issuable in lieu of Seagate-Cayman common shares. Similarly, ordinary shares of the Registrant, rather than common shares of Seagate-Cayman, shall be issued, held available or used as appropriate to give effect to purchases made under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan A copy of the Deed Poll is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the Deed Poll is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.2.
 
 
The information under the heading Supplemental Indenture in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference.
 
 
The information under the heading "Completion of the Transaction" in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 3.02 by reference.
 
 
As of July 3, 2010, in connection with and effective upon completion of the Transaction (as defined in Item 8.01 below), the rights of shareholders of Seagate-Ireland will be governed by its amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and the Irish Companies Acts 1963-2009 (the "Irish Companies Acts"). The summary of the material terms of the amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and the comparison of the rights of shareholders under those documents and Irish Companies Acts described under the headings "Description of Seagate Technology plc Share Capital" and "Comparison of Rights of Shareholders and Powers of the Board of Directors" in Seagate-Cayman's Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the SEC on March 5, 2010
are incorporated into this Item 3.03 by reference. A copy of the amended and restated memorandum and articles of association is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated into this Item 3.03 by reference, and the foregoing information is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 3.1.
 
The information under the heading "Completion of the Transaction" in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 3.03 by reference.
 
 
The information under the heading "Completion of the Transaction" in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 5.01 by reference.
 
 
Directors and Officers
 
As of July 3, 2010, in connection with the completion of the Transaction, the directors and executive officers of Seagate-Cayman immediately prior to the completion of the Transaction became the directors and executive officers of the Registrant. The Registrant's directors will be subject to reelection at the 2010 annual general meeting of the Registrant. In addition, as of July 3, 2010, following completion of the Transaction, the Registrant replicated the committees that previously were in place for Seagate-Cayman which include a Compensation Committee, a Nominating and Governance Committee and an Audit Committee and a Strategic and Financial Transactions Committee.
 
Employee Stock Plans and Awards
 
In connection with the Transaction, effective as of July 3, 2010, the Registrant assumed the Equity Compensation Plans and all outstanding Awards granted under such Equity Compensation Plans. Certain of the Equity Compensation Plans, the Seagate Technology 2001 Share Option Plan, the Amended Seagate Technology 2004 Stock Compensation Plan, and the Seagate Technology Employee Stock Purchase Plan, were amended by Seagate-Cayman prior to the Transaction as necessary, appropriate or practical to (i) give effect to the Transaction; (ii) transfer the responsibility for maintaining and sponsoring such Equity Compensation Plans to Seagate-Ireland and to have Seagate-Ireland assume or adopt such Equity Compensation Plans (provided that certain subsidiaries may continue to sponsor certain plans); (iii) provide that any references in the Equity Compensation Plans to the common shares of Seagate-Cayman, including the issuance, acquisition or purchase thereof, shall be deemed to reference ordinary shares of Seagate-Ireland on a one-for-one basis and in consideration of the requirements of the Irish Companies (Amendment) Act of 1983; and (iv) transfer, adjust or assume all outstanding Awards granted under the Plans to outstanding rights over ordinary shares of Seagate-Ireland which are exercisable, issuable, held available, vest and otherwise have the same terms and conditions as under the applicable Equity Compensation Plan and Award agreement, except the ordinary shares of Seagate-Ireland shall be issuable or available on a one-for-one basis (or benefits determined in respect of) instead of common shares of Seagate-Cayman. A copy of each of the Amended Seagate Technology 2004 Stock Compensation Plan, the Seagate Technology 2001 Share Option Plan and the Seagate Technology Employee Stock Purchase Plan Compensation Plan, each as so amended, is filed herewith as Exhibits 10.3, 10.4 and 10.5, respectively, and incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference, and the foregoing summary of the amended Equity Compensation Plans is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibits 10.3, 10.4 and 10.5.
 
 
As of July 3, 2010, in connection with and effective upon completion of the Transaction, the rights of shareholders of the Registrant will be governed by its memorandum and articles of association. The summary of the material terms of the memorandum and articles of association and the comparison of the rights of shareholders under those documents described under the headings "Description of Seagate-Ireland Share Capital" and "Comparison of Rights of Shareholders and Powers of the Board of Directors" in Seagate-Cayman's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on March 5, 2010 is incorporated by reference herein. The complete text of the memorandum and articles of association of the Registrant is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.03. The summary of the memorandum and articles of association of the Registrant is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 3.1.
On May 14, 2010, Seagate-Cayman received approval from the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands of a scheme of arrangement under Cayman Islands law (the "Scheme of Arrangement") and a separate, but interconnected and interdependent, scheme of arrangement (the "Merger Scheme" and together with the Scheme of Arrangement, the "Schemes of Arrangement") that, effective as of the Transaction Time (as defined below) effected a transaction (the "Transaction") that resulted in the common shareholders of Seagate-Cayman becoming ordinary shareholders of Seagate-Ireland and Seagate-Cayman becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Seagate-Ireland.  The court order sanctioning the Schemes of Arrangement was filed with the Cayman Islands Registrar of Companies on May 18, 2010 and the Schemes of Arrangement became effective on July 3, 2010.
 
At 1:30 p.m., Pacific Time, on July 3, 2010 (the "Transaction Time"), the following steps occurred effectively simultaneously:
 
                 
all issued and outstanding Seagate-Cayman common shares were cancelled and ceased to exist;
 
                 
Seagate-Ireland issued ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis to the holders of Seagate-Cayman common shares for each Seagate-Cayman common share that was cancelled;
 
                 
in consideration for the issuance by Seagate-Ireland of its ordinary shares to the Seagate-Cayman common shareholders as set forth in the second bullet above, Seagate-Cayman allotted and issued a number of fully-paid Seagate-Cayman common shares to Seagate-Ireland equal to the number of Seagate-Ireland's ordinary shares issued to the holders of Seagate-Cayman common shares that were cancelled as set forth in the first bullet above; and
 
                 
pursuant to the Merger Scheme, Seagate-Cayman merged with merger sub, Seagate-Cayman survived the merger, merger sub was dissolved and ceased to exist and Seagate-Cayman became a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Seagate-Ireland, the resulting publicly traded parent of the Seagate group of companies.
 
Prior to the Transaction, Seagate-Cayman common shares were listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ("NASDAQ") under the symbol "STX" and registered under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). In connection with the Transaction, Seagate-Cayman requested that NASDAQ file with the SEC an application on Form 25 to delist the Seagate-Cayman common shares from NASDAQ and from registration under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, which was filed on July 2, 2010. Seagate-Cayman expects to file a Form 15 with the SEC to terminate the registration of the Seagate-Cayman common shares under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and to suspend its duty under Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act to file reports required by the Exchange Act with respect to the Seagate-Cayman common shares.
 
The Registrant's ordinary shares are deemed registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act. The issuance of ordinary shares by Seagate-Ireland in the Transaction was exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), under Section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Act. The Registrant's ordinary shares began trading on NASDAQ under the symbol "STX," the same symbol under which the Seagate-Cayman common shares previously traded, on July 6, 2010. The CUSIP number for the Registrant's ordinary shares is G7945M 107.
 
Under Irish law, Seagate-Ireland requires "distributable reserves" in its unconsolidated balance sheet prepared in accordance with the Irish Companies Acts to enable it to make distributions (including the payment of cash dividends) to its shareholders, or to redeem or buy back shares. Immediately following implementation of the Transaction, the unconsolidated balance sheet of Seagate-Ireland did not contain any distributable reserves. We are seeking to create distributable reserves, which requires the approval of the Irish High Court. Such approval is expected to be obtained within three to four weeks of the Transaction Time.
 
Set forth below is a description of the share capital of the Registrant and a discussion of certain Irish tax considerations. For purposes of the following, references to "we," "our," "Seagate-Ireland" or the "Company" refer to Seagate Technology plc.
 
The following description of the Registrant's share capital is a summary. This summary is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Registrant's memorandum and articles of association, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference. We encourage you to read the memorandum and articles of association carefully.
 
Capital Structure
 
Authorized Share Capital.
    The authorized share capital of Seagate-Ireland is 40,000 divided into 40,000 ordinary shares (which have become deferred shares upon consummation of the Transaction) with a nominal value of 1 per share and US$13,500
 
divided into 1,250,000,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of US$0.00001 per share and 100,000,000 preferred shares with a nominal value of US$0.00001 per share.
 
Seagate-Ireland may issue shares subject to the maximum prescribed by its authorized share capital contained in its memorandum and articles of association. The authorized share capital may be increased or reduced by way of an ordinary resolution of Seagate-Ireland's shareholders. The shares comprising the authorized share capital of Seagate-Ireland may be divided into shares of such nominal value as the resolution shall prescribe. As a matter of Irish company law, the directors of a company may issue new ordinary or preferred shares without shareholder approval once authorized to do so by the articles of association of the company or by an ordinary resolution adopted by the shareholders at a general meeting. An ordinary resolution requires the approval of over 50% of the votes of a company's shareholders cast at a general meeting. The authority conferred can be granted for a maximum period of five years, at which point it must be renewed by the shareholders of the company by an ordinary resolution. Because of this requirement of Irish law, the articles of association of Seagate-Ireland authorize the board of directors of Seagate-Ireland to issue new ordinary or preferred shares without shareholder approval for a period of five years from the date of adoption of such articles of association.
 
The rights and restrictions to which the ordinary shares are subject are prescribed in Seagate-Ireland's articles of association. Seagate-Ireland's articles of association entitle the board of directors, without shareholder approval, to determine the terms of the preferred shares issued by Seagate-Ireland. The Seagate-Ireland board of directors is authorized, without obtaining any vote or consent of the holders of any class or series of shares, unless expressly provided by the terms of that class or series of shares, to provide from time to time for the issuance of other classes or series of preferred shares and to establish the characteristics of each class or series, including the number of shares, designations, relative voting rights, dividend rights, liquidation and other rights, redemption, repurchase or exchange rights and any other preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights and limitations not inconsistent with applicable law.
 
Irish law does not recognize fractional shares held of record. Accordingly, Seagate-Ireland's articles of association do not provide for the issuance of fractional shares of Seagate-Ireland, and the official Irish register of Seagate-Ireland does not reflect any fractional shares.
 
Issued Share Capital.
    Immediately prior to the Transaction, the issued share capital of Seagate-Ireland was 40,000, comprised of 40,000 ordinary shares, with nominal value of 1 per share (the ""). In connection with the consummation of the Transaction, the Euro Share Capital was reclassified as deferred shares and has ceased to carry any right to a dividend or to receive notice of or attend, vote or speak at any shareholder meeting and shall only confer the right of a return of capital on a winding-up or otherwise, to repayment of the nominal value paid on such shares and only after repayment of the ordinary shares in full.  Further, they may be acquired by Seagate-Ireland for no consideration. Seagate-Ireland has simultaneously issued a number of ordinary shares with a nominal value of US$0.00001 per share each that is equal to the number of Seagate-Cayman common shares that have been cancelled as part of the Transaction. All shares issued upon completion of the Transaction will be issued as fully-paid up and non-assessable.
Euro Share Capital
 
Pre-emption Rights, Share Warrants and Share Options
 
Under Irish law certain statutory pre-emption rights apply automatically in favor of shareholders where shares are to be issued for cash. However, Seagate-Ireland has opted out of these pre-emption rights in its articles of association as permitted under Irish company law. Because Irish law requires this opt-out to be renewed every five years by a special resolution of the shareholders, Seagate-Ireland's articles of association provide that this opt-out must be so renewed. A special resolution requires the approval of not less than 75% of the votes of Seagate-Ireland's shareholders cast at a general meeting. If the opt-out is not renewed, shares issued for cash must be offered to existing shareholders of Seagate-Ireland pro rata to their existing shareholding before the shares can be issued to any new shareholders. The statutory pre-emption rights do not apply where shares are issued for non-cash consideration (such as in a stock-for-stock acquisition) and do not apply to the issue of non-equity shares (that is, shares that have the right to participate only up to a specified amount in any income or capital distribution).
 
The articles of association of Seagate-Ireland provide that, subject to any shareholder approval requirement under any laws, regulations or the rules of any stock exchange to which Seagate-Ireland is subject, the board is authorized, from time to time, in its discretion, to grant such persons, for such periods and upon such terms as the board deems advisable, options to purchase such number of shares of any class or classes or of any series of any class as the board may deem advisable, and to cause warrants or other appropriate instruments evidencing such options to be issued. The Irish Companies Acts provide that directors may issue share warrants or options without shareholder approval once authorized to do so by the articles of association or an ordinary resolution of shareholders. The Seagate-Ireland board may issue shares upon exercise of warrants or options without shareholder approval or authorization (up to the relevant authorized share capital limit). In connection with the Transaction, Seagate-Ireland assumed, on a one-for-one basis, Seagate-Cayman's existing obligations to deliver shares under our equity incentive plans, warrants or other rights pursuant to the terms thereof.
 
The Irish Companies Acts prohibit an Irish company from allotting shares for "nil" or no consideration. Accordingly, the nominal value of the shares underlying any restricted share award, restricted share unit, performance shares awards, bonus shares or any other share-based grants must be paid pursuant to the Irish Companies Acts. This nominal value payment will include rights to ordinary shares issued by Seagate-Ireland to employees under the assumed equity incentive plans.
Seagate-Ireland is subject to the rules of the NASDAQ and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended that require shareholder approval of certain equity plan and share issuances.
 
Dividends
 
Under Irish law, dividends and distributions may only be made from distributable reserves. Distributable reserves generally means the accumulated realized profits of Seagate-Ireland less accumulated realized losses of Seagate-Ireland and includes reserves created by way of capital reduction. In addition, no distribution or dividend may be made unless the net assets of Seagate-Ireland are equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of Seagate-Ireland's called up share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce Seagate-Ireland's net assets below such aggregate. Undistributable reserves include the share premium account, the capital redemption reserve fund and the amount by which Seagate-Ireland's accumulated unrealized profits, so far as not previously utilized by any capitalization, exceed Seagate-Ireland's accumulated unrealized losses, so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital.
 
The determination as to whether or not Seagate-Ireland has sufficient distributable reserves to fund a dividend must be made by reference to "relevant accounts" of Seagate-Ireland. The "relevant accounts" will be either the last set of unconsolidated annual audited financial statements or other financial statements properly prepared in accordance with the Irish Companies Acts, which give a "true and fair view" of Seagate-Ireland's unconsolidated financial position and accord with accepted accounting practice. The relevant accounts must be filed in the Companies Registration Office (the official public registry for companies in Ireland).
 
Although Seagate-Ireland does not currently have any distributable reserves immediately following the Transaction Time, we are taking steps to create such distributable reserves. We received the approval of Seagate-Cayman's shareholders at the April 14, 2010 shareholder meetings to approve a reduction of the share premium account (similar to additional paid-up capital) of Seagate-Ireland to establish distributable reserves of Seagate-Ireland. Before the Transaction, the previous shareholders of Seagate-Ireland (Seagate-Cayman and its nominees) passed a resolution to approve the reduction of the share premium account of Seagate-Ireland. We are currently in the process of seeking the approval of the Irish High Court, which is required for the reduction of the share premium account to be effective and for the distributable reserves to be created.
 
The mechanism as to who declares a dividend and when a dividend shall become payable is governed by the articles of association of Seagate-Ireland. Seagate-Ireland's articles of association authorize the directors to declare such dividends as appear justified from the profits of Seagate-Ireland without the approval of the shareholders at a general meeting. The board of directors may also recommend a dividend to be approved and declared by the shareholders at a general meeting. The board of directors may direct that the payment be made by distribution of assets, shares or cash and no dividend issued may exceed the amount recommended by the directors. The dividends can be declared and paid in the form of cash or non-cash assets and may be paid in U.S. dollars or any other currency.
 
The directors of Seagate-Ireland may deduct from any dividend payable to any shareholder all sums of money (if any) payable by such shareholder to Seagate-Ireland in relation to the shares of Seagate-Ireland.
 
The directors of Seagate-Ireland are also entitled to issue shares with preferred rights to participate in dividends declared by Seagate-Ireland. The holders of such preferred shares may, depending on their terms, rank senior to the Seagate-Ireland ordinary shares in terms of dividend rights and/or be entitled to claim arrears of a declared dividend out of subsequently declared dividends in priority to ordinary shareholders.
 
Share Repurchases, Redemptions and Conversions
 
Overview
 
Seagate-Ireland's articles of association provide that any ordinary share which Seagate-Ireland has agreed to acquire shall be deemed to be a redeemable share. Accordingly, for Irish company law purposes, the repurchase of ordinary shares by Seagate-Ireland will technically be effected as a redemption of those shares as described below under "Repurchases and Redemptions by Seagate-Ireland." If the articles of association of Seagate-Ireland did not contain such provision, repurchases by Seagate-Ireland would be subject to many of the same rules that apply to purchases of Seagate-Ireland shares by subsidiaries described below under "Purchases by Subsidiaries of Seagate-Ireland," including the shareholder approval requirements described below and the requirement that any on-market purchases be effected on a "recognized stock exchange." Except where otherwise noted, when we refer elsewhere in this proxy statement to repurchasing or buying back ordinary shares of Seagate-Ireland, we are referring to the redemption of ordinary shares by Seagate-Ireland pursuant to such provision of the articles of association or the purchase of ordinary shares of Seagate-Ireland by a subsidiary of Seagate-Ireland, in each case in accordance with the Seagate-Ireland articles of association and Irish company law as described below.
Repurchases and Redemptions by Seagate-Ireland
 
Under Irish law, a company can issue redeemable shares and redeem them out of distributable reserves (which are described above under "Dividends") or the proceeds of a new issue of shares for that purpose. Although Seagate-Ireland does not currently have any distributable reserves, we are taking steps to create such distributable reserves. Please see above under "Dividends" for additional information on distributable reserves and the steps we have taken to date. The issue of redeemable shares may only be made by Seagate-Ireland where the nominal value of the issued share capital that is not redeemable is not less than 10% of the nominal value of the total issued share capital of Seagate-Ireland. All redeemable shares must also be fully-paid and the terms of redemption of the shares must provide for payment on redemption. Redeemable shares may, upon redemption, be cancelled or held in treasury. Shareholder approval will not be required to redeem Seagate-Ireland shares.
 
Seagate-Ireland has also been given an additional general authority to purchase its own shares on-market which would take effect on the same terms and be subject to the same conditions as applicable to purchases by Seagate-Ireland's subsidiaries as described below.
 
The board of directors of Seagate-Ireland is also be entitled to issue preferred shares which may be redeemed at the option of either Seagate-Ireland or the shareholder, depending on the terms of such preferred shares. Please see above under "Capital StructureAuthorized Share Capital" for additional information on preferred shares.
 
Repurchased and redeemed shares may be cancelled or held as treasury shares. The nominal value of treasury shares held by Seagate-Ireland at any time must not exceed 10% of the nominal value of the issued share capital of Seagate-Ireland. Seagate-Ireland cannot exercise any voting rights in respect of any shares held as treasury shares. Treasury shares may be cancelled by Seagate-Ireland or re-issued subject to certain conditions.
 
Purchases by Subsidiaries of Seagate-Ireland
 
Under Irish law, it may be permissible for an Irish or non-Irish subsidiary to purchase shares of Seagate-Ireland either on-market or off-market. A general authority of the shareholders of Seagate-Ireland (by way of ordinary resolution) is required to allow a subsidiary of Seagate-Ireland to make on-market purchases of Seagate-Ireland shares. However, as long as this general authority has been granted, no specific shareholder authority for a particular on-market purchase by a subsidiary of Seagate-Ireland shares is required. Prior to the Transaction Time, Seagate-Cayman together with the nominee shareholders of Seagate-Ireland authorized the purchase of Seagate-Ireland shares by subsidiaries of Seagate-Ireland, such that Seagate-Ireland's subsidiaries are authorized to purchase shares in an aggregate amount approximately equal to the then remaining authorization under the Seagate-Cayman share repurchase program that was in effect immediately prior to the Transaction Time and such other shares as the board of directors of Seagate-Ireland may authorize and approve for repurchase.  We expect that Seagate-Ireland will seek to renew this general authority, which will expire no later than 18 months after the date on which it was granted, at the first annual general meeting of Seagate-Ireland in 2010 and at subsequent annual general meetings.
 
In order for a subsidiary of Seagate-Ireland to make an on-market purchase of Seagate-Ireland's shares, such shares must be purchased on a "recognized stock exchange." NASDAQ, on which the shares of Seagate-Ireland are listed following the Transaction, is now specified as a recognized stock exchange for this purpose by Irish company law. For an off-market purchase by a subsidiary of Seagate-Ireland, the proposed purchase contract must be authorized by special resolution of the shareholders of Seagate-Ireland before the contract is entered into. The person whose shares are to be bought back cannot vote in favor of the special resolution and, for at least 21 days prior to the special resolution, the purchase contract must be on display or must be available for inspection by shareholders at the registered office of Seagate-Ireland.
 
The number of shares held by the subsidiaries of Seagate-Ireland at any time will count as treasury shares and will be included in any calculation of the permitted treasury share threshold of 10% of the nominal value of the issued share capital of Seagate-Ireland. While a subsidiary holds shares of Seagate-Ireland, it cannot exercise any voting rights in respect of those shares. The acquisition of the shares of Seagate-Ireland by a subsidiary must be funded out of distributable reserves of the subsidiary.
 
Existing Share Repurchase Program
 
The board of directors of Seagate-Cayman previously authorized an Anti-Dilution Share Repurchase Program. The share repurchase program authorizes Seagate-Cayman to repurchase shares of common shares to offset increases in diluted shares, such as those caused by employee stock plans and convertible debt, used in the determination of diluted net income per share. The timing and number of shares to be repurchased are dependent on general business and market conditions, cash flows generated by future operations, the price of our shares, cash requirements for other investing and financing activities, and maintaining compliance with our debt covenants.
 
Prior to the consummation of the Transaction, (i) the board of directors of Seagate-Ireland authorized the repurchase of Seagate-Ireland shares by Seagate-Ireland and its subsidiaries and (ii) Seagate-Cayman and the nominee shareholders of Seagate-Ireland authorized the purchase of Seagate-Ireland shares by subsidiaries of Seagate-Ireland, such that Seagate-Ireland and its subsidiaries are authorized to purchase shares in an aggregate amount approximately equal to the then remaining authorization under the Seagate-Cayman Anti-Dilution Share Repurchase Program that was in effect immediately prior to the Transaction Time as described above, and such other shares as the board of directors of Seagate-Ireland may authorize and approve for repurchase.
 
As noted above, because repurchases of Seagate-Ireland shares by Seagate-Ireland can technically be effected as a redemption of those shares pursuant to the articles of association, shareholder approval for such repurchases will not be required.
 
Bonus Shares
 
Under Seagate-Ireland's articles of association, upon the recommendation of the directors, the shareholders may by ordinary resolution authorize the directors to capitalize any amount for the time being standing to the credit of any of Seagate-Ireland's reserves (including any capital redemption reserve fund or share premium account) or to the credit of profit and loss account for issuance and distribution to shareholders as fully-paid up bonus shares on the same basis of entitlement as would apply in respect of a dividend distribution. An "ordinary resolution" of Seagate-Ireland requires approval by more than 50% of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting.
 
Lien on Shares, Calls on Shares and Forfeiture of Shares
 
Seagate-Ireland's articles of association provide that Seagate-Ireland has a first and paramount lien on every share (not being a fully paid up share) for all moneys payable at a fixed time or called in respect of that share. Subject to the terms of their allotment the directors can also make calls upon the shareholders in respect of any moneys unpaid on their shares and if such payment is not forthcoming the shares in question may be liable to be forfeited. These provisions are standard inclusions in the articles of association of an Irish company limited by shares such as Seagate-Ireland and will only be applicable to shares of Seagate-Ireland that have not been fully paid.
 
Consolidation and Division; Subdivision
 
Under its articles of association, Seagate-Ireland may by ordinary resolution consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of larger nominal value than its existing shares or subdivide its shares into smaller amounts than is fixed by its articles of association.
 
Reduction of Share Capital
 
Seagate-Ireland may, by ordinary resolution, reduce its authorized share capital in any way. Seagate-Ireland also may, by special resolution and subject to confirmation by the Irish High Court, reduce or cancel its issued share capital in any way.
 
Annual Meetings of Shareholders
 
Seagate-Ireland will be required to hold an annual general meeting within 18 months of incorporation and at intervals of no more than 15 months thereafter, provided that an annual general meeting is held in each calendar year following the first annual general meeting and no more than nine months after Seagate-Ireland's fiscal year-end. Seagate-Ireland plans to hold its first annual general meeting in 2010. Under Irish law, the first annual general meeting of Seagate-Ireland is permitted to be held outside Ireland. Thereafter, any annual general meeting may be held outside Ireland if a resolution so authorizing has been passed at the preceding annual general meeting. We currently do not intend to hold annual general meetings in Ireland.
 
Notice of an annual general meeting must be given to all shareholders of Seagate-Ireland and to the auditors of Seagate-Ireland. The articles of association of Seagate-Ireland provide for a minimum notice period of 21 days, which is the minimum permitted under Irish law.
 
The only matters which must, as a matter of Irish company law, be transacted at an annual general meeting are the presentation of the annual accounts, balance sheet and reports of the directors and auditors, the appointment of new auditors and the fixing of the auditor's remuneration (or delegation of same). If no resolution is made in respect of the reappointment of an existing auditor at an annual general meeting, the existing auditor will be deemed to have continued in office.
 
Directors are elected by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by shareholders at an annual general meeting and serve until the next annual general meeting. Any nominee for director who does not receive a majority of the votes cast is not elected to the board.
 
Extraordinary General Meetings of Shareholders
 
Extraordinary general meetings of Seagate-Ireland may be convened by (i) the board of directors, (ii) on requisition of the shareholders holding not less than 10% of the paid up share capital of Seagate-Ireland carrying voting rights or (iii) on requisition of Seagate-Ireland's auditors. Extraordinary general meetings are generally held for the purposes of approving shareholder resolutions of Seagate-Ireland as may be required from time to time. At any extraordinary general meeting only such business shall be conducted as is set forth in the notice thereof.
 
Notice of an extraordinary general meeting must be given to all shareholders of Seagate-Ireland and to the auditors of Seagate-Ireland. Under Irish law, the minimum notice periods are 21 days' notice in writing for an extraordinary general meeting to approve a special resolution and 14 days' notice in writing for any other extraordinary general meeting. Because of the 21 day and 14 day requirements described in this paragraph, Seagate-Ireland's articles of association include provisions reflecting these requirements of Irish law.
 
In the case of an extraordinary general meeting convened by shareholders of Seagate-Ireland, the proposed purpose of the meeting must be set out in the requisition notice. Upon receipt of this requisition notice, the board of directors has 21 days to convene a meeting of Seagate-Ireland's shareholders to vote on the matters set out in the requisition notice. This meeting must be held within two months of the receipt of the requisition notice. If the board of directors does not convene the meeting within such 21 day period, the requisitioning shareholders, or any of them representing more than one half of the total voting rights of all of them, may themselves convene a meeting, which meeting must be held within three months of the receipt of the requisition notice.
 
If the board of directors becomes aware that the net assets of Seagate-Ireland are half or less of the amount of Seagate-Ireland's called-up share capital, the directors of Seagate-Ireland must convene an extraordinary general meeting of Seagate-Ireland's shareholders not later than 28 days from the date that they learn of this fact. This meeting must be convened for the purposes of considering whether any, and if so what, measures should be taken to address the situation.
 
Quorum for General Meetings
 
The presence, in person or by proxy, of the holders of not less than a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of the company entitled to vote at such meeting constitutes a quorum for the conduct of business. No business may take place at a general meeting of Seagate-Ireland if a quorum is not present in person or by proxy. The board of directors has no authority to waive quorum requirements stipulated in the articles of association of Seagate-Ireland. Abstentions and broker non-votes will be counted as present for purposes of determining whether there is a quorum in respect of the proposals. A broker "non-vote" occurs when a nominee (such as a broker) holding shares for a beneficial owner abstains from voting on a particular proposal because the nominee does not have discretionary voting power for that proposal and has not received instructions from the beneficial owner on how to vote those shares.
 
Voting
 
Where a poll is demanded at a general meeting, every shareholder shall have one vote for each ordinary share that he or she holds as of the record date for the meeting. Voting rights may be exercised by shareholders registered in Seagate-Ireland's share register as of the record date for the meeting or by a duly appointed proxy of such a registered shareholder, which proxy need not be a shareholder. Where interests in shares are held by a nominee trust company this company may exercise the rights of the beneficial holders on their behalf as their proxy. All proxies must be appointed in the manner prescribed by Seagate-Ireland's articles of association. The articles of association of Seagate-Ireland permit the appointment of proxies by the shareholders to be notified to Seagate-Ireland electronically in such manner as may be approved by the board.
 
Seagate-Ireland's articles of association provide that all resolutions shall be decided by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by (i) the chairman, (ii) at least 10 shareholders of record, as of the record date for the meeting, or (iii) any shareholder, or shareholders, holding not less than 10% of the total voting rights of Seagate-Ireland as of the record date for the meeting. Each Seagate-Ireland ordinary shareholder of record as of the record date for the meeting has one vote at a general meeting on a show of hands.
 
In accordance with the articles of association of Seagate-Ireland, the directors of Seagate-Ireland may from time to time cause Seagate-Ireland to issue preferred shares. These preferred shares may have such voting rights as may be specified in the terms of such preferred shares (e.g., they may carry more votes per share than ordinary shares or may entitle their holders to a class vote on such matters as may be specified in the terms of the preferred shares).
 
Treasury shares will not be entitled to be voted at general meetings of shareholders.
 
Irish company law requires "special resolutions" of the shareholders at a general meeting to approve certain matters. A special resolution requires the approval of not less than 75% of the votes of Seagate-Ireland's shareholders cast at a general meeting where a quorum is present. This may be contrasted with "ordinary resolutions," which require a simple majority of the votes of Seagate-Ireland's shareholders cast at a general meeting.
 
Examples of matters requiring special resolutions include:
 
                 
amending the objects or memorandum of association of Seagate-Ireland;
 
                 
amending the articles of association of Seagate-Ireland;
 
                 
approving the change of name of Seagate-Ireland;
                 
authorizing the entering into of a guarantee or provision of security in connection with a loan, quasi-loan or credit transaction to a director or connected person;
 
                 
opting out of pre-emption rights on the issuance of new shares;
 
                 
re-registration of Seagate-Ireland from a plc as a private company;
 
                 
variation of class rights attaching to classes of shares (where the articles of association do not provide otherwise);
 
                 
purchase of own shares off-market;
 
                 
the reduction of share capital;
 
                 
sanctioning a compromise/scheme of arrangement;
 
                 
resolving that Seagate-Ireland be wound up by the Irish courts;
 
                 
resolving in favor of a shareholders' voluntary winding-up;
 
                 
re-designation of shares into different share classes; and
 
                 
setting the re-issue price of treasury shares.
 
Variation of Rights Attaching to a Class or Series of Shares
 
Any variation of class or series rights attaching to the issued shares of Seagate-Ireland is addressed in the articles of association of Seagate-Ireland as well as the Irish Companies Acts and must be in accordance with the articles of association be approved by a special resolution of the class or series affected.
 
Inspection of Books and Records
 
Under Irish law, shareholders have the right to: (i) receive a copy of the memorandum and articles of association of Seagate-Ireland and any act of the Irish Government which alters the memorandum of association of Seagate-Ireland; (ii) inspect and obtain copies of the minutes of general meetings and resolutions of Seagate-Ireland; (iii) inspect and receive a copy of the register of shareholders, register of directors and secretaries, register of directors' interests and other statutory registers maintained by Seagate-Ireland; (iv) receive copies of balance sheets and directors' and auditors' reports which have previously been sent to shareholders prior to an annual general meeting; and (v) receive balance sheets of a subsidiary company of Seagate-Ireland which have previously been sent to shareholders prior to an annual general meeting for the preceding 10 years. The auditors of Seagate-Ireland will also have the right to inspect all books, records and vouchers of Seagate-Ireland. The auditors' report must be circulated to the shareholders with Seagate-Ireland's financial statements prepared in accordance with Irish law 21 days before the annual general meeting and must be read to the shareholders at Seagate-Ireland's annual general meeting.
 
Acquisitions
 
There are a number of mechanisms for acquiring an Irish plc, including:
 
(a)   a court-approved scheme of arrangement under the Irish Companies Acts. A scheme of arrangement with shareholders requires a court order from the Irish High Court and the approval of: (i) 75% of the voting shareholders by value; and (ii) 50% in number of the voting shareholders, at a meeting called to approve the scheme;
 
(b)   through a tender offer by a third party for all of the shares of Seagate-Ireland. Where the holders of 80% or more of Seagate-Ireland's shares have accepted an offer for their shares in Seagate-Ireland, the remaining shareholders may be statutorily required to also transfer their shares. If the bidder does not exercise its "squeeze out" right, then the non-accepting shareholders also have a statutory right to require the bidder to acquire their shares on the same terms. If shares of Seagate-Ireland were listed on the Irish Stock Exchange or another regulated stock exchange in the EU, this threshold would be increased to 90%; and
 
(c)   it is also possible for Seagate-Ireland to be acquired by way of a merger with an EU-incorporated company under the EU Cross-Border Mergers Directive 2005/56/EC. Such a merger must be approved by a special resolution. If Seagate-Ireland is being merged with another EU company under the EU Cross-Border Mergers Directive 2005/56/EC and the consideration payable to Seagate-Ireland's shareholders is not all in the form of cash, Seagate-Ireland's shareholders may be entitled to require their shares to be acquired at fair value.
Under Irish law, there is no requirement for a company's shareholders to approve a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of a company's property and assets. However, Seagate-Ireland's articles of association provide that an ordinary resolution of the shareholders is required to approve a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of Seagate-Ireland's property and assets (other than a sale, lease or exchange to or with a subsidiary of Seagate-Ireland).
 
Appraisal Rights
 
Generally, under Irish law, shareholders of an Irish company do not have dissenters or appraisal rights. Under the European Communities (Cross-Border Mergers) Regulations 2008 governing the merger of an Irish company limited by shares such as Seagate-Ireland and a company incorporated in the European Economic Area (the European Economic Area includes all member states of the EU and Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein), a shareholder (i) who voted against the special resolution approving the merger or (ii) of a company in which 90% of the shares is held by the other company the party to the merger of the transferor company has the right to request that the company acquire its shares for cash.
 
Disclosure of Interests in Shares
 
Under the Irish Companies Acts, there is a notification requirement for shareholders who acquire or cease to be interested in five percent of the shares of an Irish plc. A shareholder of Seagate-Ireland must therefore make such a notification to Seagate-Ireland if as a result of a transaction the shareholder will be interested in five percent or more of the shares of Seagate-Ireland; or if as a result of a transaction a shareholder who was interested in more than five percent of the shares of Seagate-Ireland ceases to be so interested. Where a shareholder is interested in more than five percent of the shares of Seagate-Ireland, any alteration of his or her interest that brings his or her total holding through the nearest whole percentage number, whether an increase or a reduction, must be notified to Seagate-Ireland. The relevant percentage figure is calculated by reference to the aggregate nominal value of the shares in which the shareholder is interested as a proportion of the entire nominal value of Seagate-Ireland's share capital. Where the percentage level of the shareholder's interest does not amount to a whole percentage this figure may be rounded down to the next whole number. All such disclosures should be notified to Seagate-Ireland within five business days of the transaction or alteration of the shareholder's interests that gave rise to the requirement to notify. Where a person fails to comply with the notification requirements described above no right or interest of any kind whatsoever in respect of any shares in Seagate-Ireland concerned, held by such person, shall be enforceable by such person, whether directly or indirectly, by action or legal proceeding. However, such person may apply to the court to have the rights attaching to the shares concerned reinstated.
 
In addition to the above disclosure requirement, Seagate-Ireland, under the Irish Companies Acts, may by notice in writing require a person whom Seagate-Ireland knows or has reasonable cause to believe to be, or at any time during the three years immediately preceding the date on which such notice is issued, to have been interested in shares comprised in Seagate-Ireland's relevant share capital to: (i) indicate whether or not it is the case; and (ii) where such person holds or has during that time held an interest in the shares of Seagate-Ireland, to give such further information as may be required by Seagate-Ireland including particulars of such person's own past or present interests in shares of Seagate-Ireland. Any information given in response to the notice is required to be given in writing within such reasonable time as may be specified in the notice.
 
Where such a notice is served by Seagate-Ireland on a person who is or was interested in shares of Seagate-Ireland and that person fails to give Seagate-Ireland any information required within the reasonable time specified, Seagate-Ireland may apply to court for an order directing that the affected shares be subject to certain restrictions. Under the Irish Companies Acts, the restrictions that may be placed on the shares by the court are as follows:
 
(a)   any transfer of those shares, or in the case of unissued shares any transfer of the right to be issued with shares and any issue of shares, shall be void;
 
(b)   no voting rights shall be exercisable in respect of those shares;
 
(c)   no further shares shall be issued in right of those shares or in pursuance of any offer made to the holder of those shares; and
 
(d)   no payment shall be made of any sums due from Seagate-Ireland on those shares, whether in respect of capital or otherwise.
 
Where the shares in Seagate-Ireland are subject to these restrictions, the court may order the shares to be sold and may also direct that the shares shall cease to be subject to these restrictions.
 
Anti-Takeover Provisions
 
Irish Takeover Rules and Substantial Acquisition Rules
 
A transaction by virtue of which a third party is seeking to acquire 30% or more of the voting rights of Seagate-Ireland will be governed by the Irish Takeover Panel Act 1997 and the Irish Takeover Rules made thereunder and will be regulated by the Irish Takeover Panel. The "General Principles" of the Irish Takeover Rules and certain important aspects of the Irish Takeover Rules are described below.
General Principles
 
The Irish Takeover Rules are built on the following General Principles which will apply to any transaction regulated by the Irish Takeover Panel:
 
                 
in the event of an offer, all classes of shareholders of the target company should be afforded equivalent treatment and, if a person acquires control of a company, the other holders of securities must be protected;
 
                 
the holders of securities in the target company must have sufficient time to allow them to make an informed decision regarding the offer;
 
                 
the board of a company must act in the interests of the company as a whole. If the board of the target company advises the holders of securities as regards the offer it must advise on the effects of the implementation of the offer on employment, employment conditions and the locations of the target company's place of business;
 
                 
false markets in the securities of the target company or any other company concerned by the offer must not be created;
 
                 
a bidder can only announce an offer after ensuring that he or she can fulfill in full the consideration offered;
 
                 
a target company may not be hindered longer than is reasonable by an offer for its securities. This is a recognition that an offer will disrupt the day-to-day running of a target company particularly if the offer is hostile and the board of the target company must divert its attention to resist the offer; and
 
                 
a "substantial acquisition" of securities (whether such acquisition is to be effected by one transaction or a series of transactions) will only be allowed to take place at an acceptable speed and shall be subject to adequate and timely disclosure.
 
Mandatory Bid
 
If an acquisition of shares were to increase the aggregate holding of an acquirer and its concert parties to shares carrying 30% or more of the voting rights in Seagate-Ireland, the acquirer and, depending on the circumstances, its concert parties would be required (except with the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel) to make a cash offer for the remaining outstanding shares at a price not less than the highest price paid for the shares by the acquirer or its concert parties during the previous 12 months. This requirement would also be triggered by an acquisition of shares by a person holding (together with its concert parties) shares carrying between 30% and 50% of the voting rights in Seagate-Ireland if the effect of such acquisition were to increase the percentage of the voting rights held by that person (together with its concert parties) by 0.05% within a twelve-month period. A single holder (that is, a holder excluding any parties acting in concert with the holder) holding more than 50% of the voting rights of a company is not subject to this rule.
 
Voluntary Bid; Requirements to Make a Cash Offer and Minimum Price Requirements
 
A voluntary offer is an offer that is not a mandatory offer. If a bidder or any of its concert parties acquire ordinary shares of Seagate-Ireland within the period of three months prior to the commencement of the offer period, the offer price must be not less than the highest price paid for Seagate-Ireland ordinary shares by the bidder or its concert parties during that period. The Irish Takeover Panel has the power to extend the "look back" period to 12 months if the Irish Takeover Panel, having regard to the General Principles, believes it is appropriate to do so.
 
If the bidder or any of its concert parties has acquired ordinary shares of Seagate-Ireland (i) during the period of 12 months prior to the commencement of the offer period which represent more than 10% of the total ordinary shares of Seagate-Ireland or (ii) at any time after the commencement of the offer period, the offer shall be in cash (or accompanied by a full cash alternative) and the price per Seagate-Ireland ordinary share shall be not less than the highest price paid by the bidder or its concert parties during, in the case of (i), the period of 12 months prior to the commencement of the offer period and, in the case of (ii), the offer period. The Irish Takeover Panel may apply this rule to a bidder who, together with its concert parties, has acquired less than 10% of the total ordinary shares of Seagate-Ireland in the 12 month period prior to the commencement of the offer period if the Irish Takeover Panel, having regard to the General Principles, considers it just and proper to do so.
 
An offer period will generally commence from the date of the first announcement of the offer or proposed offer.
 
Substantial Acquisition Rules
 
The Irish Takeover Rules also contain rules governing substantial acquisitions of shares which restrict the speed at which a person may increase his or her holding of shares and rights over shares to an aggregate of between 15% and 30% of the voting rights of Seagate-Ireland. Except in certain circumstances, an acquisition or series of acquisitions of shares or rights over shares representing 10% or more of the voting rights of Seagate-Ireland is prohibited, if such acquisition(s), when aggregated with shares or rights already
held, would result in the acquirer holding 15% or more but less than 30% of the voting rights of Seagate-Ireland and such acquisitions are made within a period of seven days. These rules also require accelerated disclosure of acquisitions of shares or rights over shares relating to such holdings.
 
Frustrating Action
 
Under the Irish Takeover Rules, the board of directors of Seagate-Ireland is not permitted to take any action which might frustrate an offer for the shares of Seagate-Ireland once the board of directors has received an approach which may lead to an offer or has reason to believe an offer is imminent except as noted below. Potentially frustrating actions such as (i) the issue of shares, options or convertible securities, (ii) material disposals, (iii) entering into contracts other than in the ordinary course of business or (iv) any action, other than seeking alternative offers, which may result in frustration of an offer, are prohibited during the course of an offer or at any time during which the board has reason to believe an offer is imminent. Exceptions to this prohibition are available where:
 
(a)   the action is approved by Seagate-Ireland's shareholders at a general meeting; or
 
(b)   with the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel where:
 
(i)  the Irish Takeover Panel is satisfied the action would not constitute a frustrating action;
 
(ii)  the holders of 50% of the voting rights state in writing that they approve the proposed action and would vote in favor of it at a general meeting;
 
(iii)  in accordance with a contract entered into prior to the announcement of the offer; or
 
(iv)  the decision to take such action was made before the announcement of the offer and either has been at least partially implemented or is in the ordinary course of business.
 
For other provisions that could be considered to have an anti-takeover effect, please see above under "Authorized Share Capital" (regarding issuance of preferred shares), "Pre-emption Rights, Share Warrants and Share Options" and "Disclosure of Interests in Shares," in addition to "Corporate Governance," "Comparison of Rights of Shareholders and Powers of the Board of DirectorsElection of Directors," "Vacancies on Board of Directors," "Removal of Directors," "Amendment of Governing Documents" and "Director Nominations; Proposals of Shareholders" below.
 
Corporate Governance
 
The articles of association of Seagate-Ireland allocate authority over the day-to-day management of Seagate-Ireland to the board of directors. The board of directors may then delegate the management of Seagate-Ireland to committees (consisting of members of the board or other persons) or executives, but regardless, the directors will remain responsible, as a matter of Irish law, for the proper management of the affairs of Seagate-Ireland. Seagate-Ireland replicated the committees that were in place for Seagate-Cayman immediately prior to the consummation of the Transaction which include an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and a Strategic and Financial Transaction Committee. Subject to certain changes in order to comply with Irish law, Seagate-Ireland also adopted Seagate-Cayman's Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Insider Trading Policy and all other policies or guidelines in substantially the forms that had been approved by the board of directors of Seagate-Cayman and were in effect as of the Transaction Time.
 
Legal Name; Formation; Fiscal Year; Registered Office
 
The legal and commercial name of Seagate-Ireland is Seagate Technology 
public limited company
. Seagate-Ireland was incorporated in Ireland, as Hephaestus Public Limited Company on January 22, 2010 with company registration number 480010. Seagate-Ireland's fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to June 30 and Seagate-Ireland's registered address is Arthur Cox Building, Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin 2, Ireland.
 
Duration; Dissolution; Rights upon Liquidation
 
Seagate-Ireland's duration will be unlimited. Seagate-Ireland may be dissolved and wound up at any time by way of a shareholders' voluntary winding up or a creditors' winding up. In the case of a shareholders' voluntary winding-up, a special resolution of shareholders is required. Seagate-Ireland may also be dissolved by way of court order on the application of a creditor, or by the Companies Registration Office as an enforcement measure where Seagate-Ireland has failed to file certain returns.
 
The rights of the shareholders to a return of Seagate-Ireland's assets on dissolution or winding up, following the settlement of all claims of creditors, may be prescribed in Seagate-Ireland's articles of association or the terms of any preferred shares issued by the directors of Seagate-Ireland from time to time. The holders of preferred shares in particular may have the right to priority in a dissolution or winding up of Seagate-Ireland. If the articles of association contain no specific provisions in respect of a dissolution or winding up then, subject to the priorities of any creditors, the assets will be distributed to shareholders in proportion to the paid-up nominal value of the shares held. Seagate-Ireland's articles of association provide that the ordinary shareholders of Seagate-Ireland are
entitled to participate pro rata in a winding up, but their right to do so may be subject to the rights of any preferred shareholders to participate under the terms of any series or class of preferred shares.
 
Uncertificated Shares
 
Holders of ordinary shares of Seagate-Ireland do not have the right to require Seagate-Ireland to issue certificates for their shares. Seagate-Ireland will only issue uncertificated ordinary shares.
 
Stock Exchange Listing
 
Seagate-Ireland ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ under the symbol "STX," the same symbol under which Seagate-Cayman common shares were listed. We do not plan for Seagate-Ireland's ordinary shares to be listed on the Irish Stock Exchange.
 
No Sinking Fund
 
The Seagate-Ireland ordinary shares have no sinking fund provisions.
 
No Liability for Further Calls or Assessments
 
All issued and outstanding ordinary shares are duly and validly issued and fully-paid.
 
Transfer and Registration of Shares
 
Seagate-Ireland's share register will be maintained by its transfer agent. Registration in this share register will be determinative of membership in Seagate-Ireland. A shareholder of Seagate-Ireland who holds shares beneficially will not be the holder of record of such shares. Instead, the depository (for example, Cede & Co., as nominee for DTC) or other nominee will be the holder of record of such shares. Accordingly, a transfer of shares from a person who holds such shares beneficially to a person who also holds such shares beneficially through a depository or other nominee will not be registered in Seagate-Ireland's official share register, as the depository or other nominee will remain the record holder of such shares.
 
A written instrument of transfer is required under Irish law in order to register on Seagate-Ireland's official share register any transfer of shares (i) from a person who holds such shares directly to any other person, (ii) from a person who holds such shares beneficially to a person who holds such shares directly, or (iii) from a person who holds such shares beneficially to another person who holds such shares beneficially where the transfer involves a change in the depository or other nominee that is the record owner of the transferred shares. An instrument of transfer also is required for a shareholder who directly holds shares to transfer those shares into his or her own broker account (or vice versa). Such instruments of transfer may give rise to Irish stamp duty, which must be paid prior to registration of the transfer on Seagate-Ireland's official Irish share register. However, a shareholder who directly holds shares may transfer those shares into his or her own broker account (or vice versa) without giving rise to Irish stamp duty provided there is no change in the ultimate beneficial ownership of the shares as a result of the transfer and the transfer is not made in contemplation of a sale of the shares.
 
Any transfer of Seagate-Ireland shares that is subject to Irish stamp duty will not be registered in the name of the buyer unless an instrument of transfer is duly stamped and provided to our transfer agent. Seagate-Ireland's articles of association allow Seagate-Ireland, in its absolute discretion, to create an instrument of transfer and pay (or procure the payment of) any stamp duty, which is the legal obligation of a buyer. In the event of any such payment, Seagate-Ireland is (on behalf of itself or its affiliates) entitled to (i) seek reimbursement from the buyer or seller (at its discretion), (ii) set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends payable to the buyer or seller (at its discretion), and (iii) claim a lien against the Seagate-Ireland shares on which it has paid stamp duty. Parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in Seagate-Ireland shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by us.
 
Seagate-Ireland's articles of association delegate to Seagate-Ireland's Secretary the authority to execute an instrument of transfer on behalf of a transferring party.
 
In order to help ensure that the official share register is regularly updated to reflect trading of Seagate-Ireland shares occurring through normal electronic systems, we intend to regularly produce any required instruments of transfer in connection with any transactions for which we pay stamp duty (subject to the reimbursement and set-off rights described above). In the event that we notify one or both of the parties to a share transfer that we believe stamp duty is required to be paid in connection with such transfer and that we will not pay such stamp duty, such parties may either themselves arrange for the execution of the required instrument of transfer (and may request a form of instrument of transfer from Seagate-Ireland for this purpose) or request that Seagate-Ireland execute an instrument of transfer on behalf of the transferring party in a form determined by Seagate-Ireland. In either event, if the parties to the share transfer have the instrument of transfer duly stamped (to the extent required) and then provide it to Seagate-Ireland's transfer agent, the buyer will be registered as the legal owner of the relevant shares on Seagate-Ireland's official Irish share register (subject to the matters described below).
The registration of transfers may be suspended by the directors at such times and for such period, not exceeding in the whole 30 days in each year, as the directors may from time to time determine.
 
Transfer Agent and Registrar
 
Computershare Trust Company, Inc. serves as transfer agent and branch registrar for the ordinary shares in the United States. Arthur Cox serves as principal registrar for the ordinary shares in Ireland.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
Cert. No. 480010
 
1.
           
The name of the Company is .
Seagate Technology public limited company
 
2.
           
The registered office of the Company shall be at Arthur Cox Building, Earlsfort Centre, Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin 2 or at such other place as the Board may from time to time decide.
 
3.
           
The Company is to be a public limited company.
 
4.
           
The objects for which the Company is established are:
 
(1)
          
(a)
          
To carry on the business of a provider of hard disk drives, to design, manufacture, market and sell hard disk drives and all devices that store digitally encoded data.
 
(b)
          
To carry on the business of designing, manufacturing, marketing and selling media for storing electronic data in systems ranging from desktop and notebook computers, and consumer electronics devices to data centers delivering electronic data over corporate networks and the internet.
 
(c)
          
To carry on the business of producing a broad range of disk drive products and other data storage products addressing enterprise applications, mainframes and workstations, desktop applications, mobile computing applications, and consumer electronics applications and to provide data storage services for small to medium sized businesses, including online backup, data protection and recovery solutions.
 
(d)
          
To carry on the business of a holding company and to co-ordinate the administration, finances and activities of any subsidiary companies or associated companies, to do all lawful acts and things whatever that are necessary or convenient in carrying on the business of such a holding company and in particular to carry on in all its branches the business of a management services company, to act as managers and to direct or coordinate the management of other companies or of the business, property and estates of any company or person and to undertake and carry out all such services in connection therewith as may be deemed expedient by the Company's Board and to exercise its powers as a shareholder of other companies.
 
(e)
          
To acquire the entire issued share capital of Seagate Technology, a Cayman Island registered company.
(2)
          
To acquire and hold shares, stocks, debenture stock, bonds, mortgages, obligations and securities and interests of any kind issued or guaranteed by any company, corporation or undertaking of whatever nature and wherever constituted or carrying on business, whether in Ireland or elsewhere, and to vary, transpose, dispose of or otherwise deal with, from time to time as may be considered expedient, any of the Company's investments for the time being.
 
(3)
          
To acquire any such shares and other securities as are mentioned in the preceding paragraph by subscription, syndicate participation, tender, purchase, exchange or otherwise and to subscribe for the same, either conditionally or otherwise, and to guarantee the subscription thereof and to exercise and enforce all rights and powers conferred by or incident to the ownership thereof.
 
(4)
          
To lease, acquire by purchase or otherwise and hold, sell, dispose of and deal in real property and in personal property of all kinds wheresoever situated.
 
(5)
          
To enter into any guarantee, contract of indemnity or suretyship and to assure, support or secure with or without consideration or benefit the performance of any obligations of any person or persons and to guarantee the fidelity of individuals filling or about to fill situations of trust or confidence.
 
(6)
          
To acquire or undertake the whole or any part of the business, property and liabilities of any person carrying on any business that the Company is authorized to carry on.
 
(7)
          
To apply for, register, purchase, lease, acquire, hold, use, control, licence, sell, assign or dispose of patents, patent rights, copyrights, trade marks, formulae, licences, inventions, processes, distinctive marks and similar rights.
 
(8)
          
To enter into partnership or into any arrangement for sharing of profits, union of interests, co-operation, joint venture, reciprocal concession or otherwise with any person carrying on or engaged in or about to carry on or engage in any business or transaction that the Company is authorized to carry on or engage in or any business or transaction capable of being conducted so as to benefit the Company.
 
(9)
          
To take or otherwise acquire and hold securities in any other body corporate having objects altogether or in part similar to those of the Company or carrying on any business capable of being conducted so as to benefit the Company.
 
(10)
        
To lend money to any employee or to any person having dealings with the Company or with whom the Company proposes to have dealings or to any other body corporate any of whose shares are held by the Company.
 
(11)
        
To apply for, secure or acquire by grant, legislative enactment, assignment, transfer, purchase or otherwise and to exercise, carry out and enjoy any charter, licence, power, authority, franchise, concession, right or privilege, that any government or authority or any body corporate or other public body may be empowered to grant, and to pay for, aid in and contribute toward carrying it into effect and to assume any liabilities or obligations incidental thereto and to enter into any arrangements with any governments or authorities, supreme, municipal, local or otherwise, that may seem conducive to the Company's objects or any of them.
 
(12)
        
To perform any duty or duties imposed on the Company by or under any enactment and to exercise any power conferred on the Company by or under any enactment.
(13)
        
To incorporate or cause to be incorporated any one or more subsidiaries of the Company (within the meaning of section 155 of the 1963 Act) for the purpose of carrying on any business.
 
(14)
        
To establish and support or aid in the establishment and support of associations, institutions, funds or trusts for the benefit of employees, directors and/or consultants or former employees, directors and/ or consultants of the Company or its predecessors or any of its subsidiary or associated companies, or the dependants or connections of such employees, directors and/or consultants or former employees, directors and/or consultants and grant gratuities, pensions and allowances, including the establishment of share option schemes, enabling employees, directors and/or consultants of the Company or other persons aforesaid to become shareholders in the Company, or otherwise to participate in the profits of the Company upon such terms and in such manner as the Company thinks fit, and to make payments towards insurance or for any object similar to those set forth in this paragraph.
 
(15)
        
To establish and contribute to any scheme for the purchase by trustees of Shares in the Company to be held for the benefit of the Company's employees or the employees of any of its subsidiary or associated companies and to lend or otherwise provide money to the trustees of such schemes or the Company's employees or the employees of any of its subsidiary or associated companies to enable them to purchase Shares of the Company.
 
(16)
        
To grant bonuses to any person or persons who are or have been in the employment of the Company or any of its subsidiary or associated companies or any person or persons who are or have been directors of, or consultants to, the Company or any of its subsidiary or associated companies.
 
(17)
        
To establish any scheme or otherwise to provide for the purchase by or on behalf of customers of the Company of Shares in the Company.
 
(18)
        
To subscribe or guarantee money for charitable, benevolent, educational or religious objects or for any exhibition or for any public, general or useful objects.
 
(19)
        
To promote any company for the purpose of acquiring or taking over any of the property and liabilities of the Company or for any other purpose that may benefit the Company.
 
(20)
        
To purchase, lease, take in exchange, hire or otherwise acquire any personal property and any rights or privileges that the Company considers necessary or convenient for the purposes of its business.
 
(21)
        
To construct, maintain, alter, renovate and demolish any buildings or works necessary or convenient for its objects.
 
(22)
        
To construct, improve, maintain, work, manage, carry out or control any roads, ways, tramways, branches or sidings, bridges, reservoirs, watercourses, wharves, factories, warehouses, electric works, shops, stores and other works and conveniences that may advance the interests of the Company and contribute to, subsidize or otherwise assist or take part in the construction, improvement, maintenance, working, management and carrying out of control thereof.
 
(23)
        
To raise and assist in raising money for, and aid by way of bonus, loan, promise, endorsement, guarantee or otherwise, any person and guarantee the performance or fulfilment of any contracts or obligations of any person, and in particular guarantee
the payment of the principal of and interest on the debt obligations of any such person.
 
(24)
        
To borrow or raise or secure the payment of money (including money in a currency other than the currency of Ireland) in such manner as the Company shall think fit and in particular by the issue of debentures or any other securities, perpetual or otherwise, charged upon all or any of the Company's property, both present and future, including its uncalled capital and to purchase, redeem or pay off any such securities.
 
(25)
        
To engage in currency exchange, interest rate and/or commodity or index linked transactions (whether in connection with or incidental to any other contract, undertaking or business entered into or carried on by the Company or whether as an independent object or activity) including, but not limited to, dealings in foreign currency, spot and forward rate exchange contracts, futures, options, forward rate agreements, swaps, caps, floors, collars, commodity or index linked swaps and any other foreign exchange, interest rate or commodity or index linked arrangements and such other instruments as are similar to or derive from any of the foregoing whether for the purpose of making a profit or avoiding a loss or managing a currency or interest rate exposure or any other purpose and to enter into any contract for and to exercise and enforce all rights and powers conferred by or incidental, directly or indirectly, to such transactions or termination of any such transactions.
 
(26)
        
To remunerate any person or company for services rendered or to be rendered in placing or assisting to place or guaranteeing the placing of any of the Shares of the Company's capital or any debentures, debenture stock or other securities of the Company or in or about the formation or promotion of the Company or the conduct of its business.
 
(27)
        
To draw, make, accept, endorse, discount, execute and issue bills of exchange, promissory notes, bills of lading, warrants and other negotiable or transferable instruments.
 
(28)
        
To sell, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the undertaking of the Company or any part thereof as an entirety or substantially as an entirety for such consideration as the Company thinks fit.
 
(29)
        
To sell, improve, manage, develop, exchange, lease, dispose of, turn to account or otherwise deal with the property of the Company in the ordinary course of its business.
 
(30)
        
To adopt such means of making known the products of the Company as may seem expedient, and in particular by advertising, by purchase and exhibition of works of art or interest, by publication of books and periodicals and by granting prizes and rewards and making donations.
 
(31)
        
To cause the Company to be registered and recognized in any foreign jurisdiction, and designate persons therein according to the laws of that foreign jurisdiction or to represent the Company and to accept service for and on behalf of the Company of any process or suit.
 
(32)
        
To allot and issue fully-paid Shares of the Company in payment or part payment of any property purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company or for any past services performed for the Company.
 
(33)
        
To distribute among the Members of the Company in cash, kind, specie or otherwise as may be resolved, by way of dividend, bonus or in any other manner considered
 
advisable, any property of the Company, but not so as to decrease the capital of the Company unless the distribution is made for the purpose of enabling the Company to be dissolved or the distribution, apart from this paragraph, would be otherwise lawful.
 
(34)
        
To promote freedom of contract, and to resist, insure against, counteract and discourage interference therewith, to join any lawful federation, union or association or do any other lawful act or thing with a view to preventing or resisting directly or indirectly any interruption of or interference with the Company's or any other trade or business or providing or safeguarding against the same, or resisting strike, movement or organisation, which may be thought detrimental to the interests or opposing any of the Company or its employees and to subscribe to any association or fund for any such purposes.
 
(35)
        
To make or receive gifts by way of capital contribution or otherwise.
 
(36)
        
To establish agencies and branches.
 
(37)
        
To take or hold mortgages, hypothecations, liens and charges to secure payment of the purchase price, or of any unpaid balance of the purchase price, of any part of the property of the Company of whatsoever kind sold by the Company, or for any money due to the Company from purchasers and others and to sell or otherwise dispose of any such mortgage, hypothec, lien or charge.
 
(38)
        
To pay all costs and expenses of or incidental to the incorporation and organization of the Company.
 
(39)
        
To invest and deal with the moneys of the Company not immediately required for the objects of the Company in such manner as may be determined.
 
(40)
        
To do any of the things authorized by this memorandum as principals, agents, contractors, trustees or otherwise, and either alone or in conjunction with others.
 
(41)
        
To do all such other things as are incidental or conductive to the attainment of the objects and the exercise of the powers of the Company.
 
5.
           
The liability of each Member is limited to the amount from time to time unpaid on such Member's Shares.
 
6.
           
The authorized share capital of the Company is 40,000 and US$13,500 and consists of (a) 40,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each (the ""), (b) 1,250,000,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of US $0.00001 per share and having the rights and privileges attached thereto as provided in the Company's Articles of Association (the "") and (c) 100,000,000 undesignated preferred shares with a nominal value of US $0.00001 per share and having the rights and preferences attached thereto as provided in the Company's Articles of Association (the "").
Deferred Shares
Ordinary Shares
Preferred Shares
 
7.
           
The shares forming the capital, increased or reduced, may be increased or reduced and be divided into such classes and issued with any special rights, privileges and conditions or with such qualifications as regards preference, dividend, capital, voting or other special incidents, and be held upon such terms as may be attached thereto or as may from time to time be provided by the original or any substituted or amended articles of association and regulations of the Company for the time being, but so that where shares are issued with any preferential or special rights attached thereto such rights shall not be alterable otherwise than pursuant to the provisions of the Company's articles of association for the time being.
8.
           
Capitalised terms that are not defined in this memorandum of association bear the same meaning as those given in the articles of association of the Company.
 
WE, the several persons whose names, addresses and descriptions are subscribed, wish to be formed into a Company in pursuance of this memorandum of association, and we agree to take the number of Shares in the capital of the Company set opposite our respective names.
 
 
Dated the 21 day of January 2010
 
Witnesses to the above signatures:
 
Cert. No.  480010
 
1.
           
The regulations contained in Table A in the First Schedule to the 1963 Act shall not apply to the Company.
 
2.
           
(1)
           
In these Articles:
 
 
(2)
                                 
In the Articles:
 
(a)
                                 
words importing the singular number include the plural number and vice-versa;
 
(b)
                                
words importing the masculine gender include the feminine gender;
 
(c)
                                 
words importing persons include corporations;
 
(d)
                                
"written" and "in writing" include all modes of representing or reproducing words in visible form, including electronic communication;
 
(e)
                                 
references to provisions of any law or regulation shall be construed as references to those provisions as amended, modified, re-enacted or replaced from time to time;
 
(f)
                                   
any phrase introduced by the terms "including", "include", "in particular" or any similar expression shall be construed as illustrative and shall not limit the sense of the words preceding those terms;
 
(g)
                                
reference to "officer" or "officers" in these Articles means any executive that has been designated by the Company as an "officer" and, for the avoidance of doubt, shall not have the meaning given to such term in the 1963 Act and any such officers shall not constitute officers of the Company within the meaning of Section 2(1)  of the 1963 Act.
 
(h)
                                
headings are inserted for reference only and shall be ignored in construing these Articles; and
 
(i)
                                    
references to US$, USD, or dollars shall mean United States dollars, the lawful currency of the United States of America and references to , euro, or EUR shall mean the euro, the lawful currency of Ireland.
 
3.
                                    
The authorised share capital of the Company is 40,000 and US$13,500 and consists of (a) 40,000 Deferred Shares of 1.00 each, (b) 1,250,000,000 Ordinary Shares of US $0.00001 each and (c) 100,000,000 undesignated Preferred Shares of US $0.00001 each.
 
4.
                                    
Subject to the Companies Acts and the provisions, if any, in the Memorandum and these Articles and to any direction that may be given by the Company in a general meeting and without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing Shares, the Board may allot, issue, grant options, rights or warrants over or otherwise dispose of any Shares with or without preferred, deferred, qualified or other rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise, and to such persons at such times and on such other terms as they think proper. Notwithstanding and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the Board is expressly authorised and empowered to implement or effect at its sole discretion the issuance of a preferred share purchase right to be issued on a pro rata basis to each holder of an Ordinary Share with such terms and for such purposes, including the influencing of takeovers, as may be described in a rights agreement between the Company and a rights agent.
5.
                                    
Upon approval of the Board, such number of Ordinary Shares, or other Shares or securities of the Company, as may be required for such purposes shall be reserved for issuance in connection with an option, right, warrant or other security of the Company or any other person that is exercisable for, convertible into, exchangeable for or otherwise issuable in respect of such Ordinary Shares or other Shares or securities of the Company.
 
6.
                                    
All Shares shall be issued fully paid as to their nominal value and any premium determined by the Board at the time of issue, save in accordance with sections 26(5) and 28 of the 1983 Act, and so that, in the case of Shares offered to the public for subscription, the amount payable on each Share shall not be less than one-quarter of the nominal amount of the Share and the whole of any premium thereon, and shall be non-assessable.
 
7.
                                    
Subject to the provisions of Part XI of the 1990 Act and the other provisions of this Article 7, the Company may:
 
(a)
                                 
pursuant to section 207 of the 1990 Act, issue any Shares of the Company which are to be redeemed or are liable to be redeemed at the option of the Company or the Member on such terms and in such manner as may be determined by the Company in general meeting (by Special Resolution) on the recommendation of the Directors;
 
(b)
                                
redeem Shares of the Company on such terms as may be contained in, or be determined pursuant to the provisions of, these Articles. Subject as aforesaid, the Company may cancel any Shares so redeemed or may hold them as treasury shares and re-issue such treasury shares as Shares of any class or classes or cancel them; or
 
(c)
                                 
pursuant to section 210 of the 1990 Act, convert any of its Shares into Redeemable Shares provided that the total number of Shares which shall be redeemable pursuant to this authority shall not exceed the limit in section 210(4) of the 1990 Act.
 
8.
                                    
The Directors are, for the purposes of section 20 of the 1983 Act, generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot and issue relevant securities (as defined by the said section 20) up to the amount of Company's authorised share capital as at the date of adoption of these Articles and to allot and issue any Shares purchased by the Company pursuant to the provisions of Part XI of the 1990 Act and held as treasury shares and this authority shall expire five years from the date of adoption of these Articles.
 
9.
                                    
The Directors are hereby empowered pursuant to sections 23 and 24(1) of the 1983 Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of the said section 23 for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Article 8 as if section 23(1) of the said 1983 Act did not apply to any such allotment. The Company may before the expiry of such authority make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred by Article 8 had not expired.
 
9A.
                          
The Company shall not give, whether directly or indirectly and whether by means of a loan, guarantee, the provision of security or otherwise, any financial assistance for the purpose of or in connection with a purchase or subscription made or to be made by any person of or for any shares in the Company or in its holding company, except as permitted by section 60 of the 1963 Act.
 
10.
                              
The holders of the Ordinary Shares shall be:
(a)
                                 
entitled to dividends on a pro rata basis in accordance with the relevant provisions of these Articles;
 
(b)
                                
entitled to participate pro rata in the total assets of the Company in the event of the Company's winding up; and
 
(c)
                                 
entitled, subject to the right of the Company to set record dates for the purpose of determining the identity of Members entitled to notice of and/or vote at a general meeting, to attend general meetings of the Company and shall be entitled to one vote for each Ordinary Share registered in his name in the Register of Members, both in accordance with the relevant provisions of these Articles.
 
11.
                              
An Ordinary Share shall be converted into be a Redeemable Share on, and from the time of, the existence or creation of an agreement, transaction or trade between the Company and any third party pursuant to which the Company acquires or will acquire Ordinary Shares, or an interest in Ordinary Shares, from the relevant third party. In these circumstances, the acquisition of such Shares by the Company shall constitute the redemption of a Redeemable Share in accordance with Part XI of the 1990 Act.
 
12.
                              
The holders of the Ordinary Shares shall not be entitled, unless the Board resolves otherwise (either generally or in any particular case or cases), to receive a share certificate in respect of any Ordinary Shares.
 
13.
                              
All Ordinary Shares shall rank with each other in all respects.
pari passu
 
 
13A.
                    
The Deferred Shares (i) do not convey on the holder the right to be paid a dividend or to receive notice of or to attend, vote and speak at any meeting of the members of the Company in respect of those shares, and (ii) confer the right on a return of capital, on a winding up or otherwise, only to repayment of the nominal amount paid up on the Deferred Shares but only after repayment of the Ordinary Shares and any Preferred Shares of the Company in full.
 
14.
                              
Preferred Shares may be issued from time to time in one or more series, each of such series to have such voting powers (full or limited or without voting powers), designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as are stated and expressed, or in any resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such series adopted by the Board as hereinafter provided.
 
15.
                              
Authority is hereby granted to the Board, subject to the provisions of the Memorandum, these Articles and applicable law to issue all or any of the authorized unissued Preferred Shares, to create one or more series of Preferred Shares and, with respect to each such series, to fix by resolution or resolutions, without any further vote or action by the Members providing for the issue of such series:
 
(a)
                                 
the number of Preferred Shares to constitute such series and the distinctive designation thereof;
 
(b)
                                
the dividend rate on the Preferred Shares of such series, the dividend payment dates, the periods in respect of which dividends are payable (""), whether such dividends shall be cumulative and, if cumulative, the date or dates from which dividends shall accumulate;
Dividend Periods
(c)
                                 
whether the Preferred Shares of such series shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, Shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of Shares and the conversion price or prices or rate or rates, or the rate or rates at which such exchange may be made, with such adjustments, if any, as shall be stated and expressed or provided in such resolution or resolutions;
 
(d)
                                
the preferences, if any, and the amounts thereof, which the Preferred Shares of such series shall be entitled to receive upon the winding up of the Company;
 
(e)
                                 
the voting power, if any, of the Preferred Shares of such series;
 
(f)
                                   
transfer restrictions and rights of first refusal with respect to the Preferred Shares of such series; and
 
(g)
                                
such other terms, conditions, special rights and provisions as may seem advisable to the Board.
 
Notwithstanding the fixing of the number of Preferred Shares constituting a particular series upon the issuance thereof, the Board at any time thereafter may authorise the issuance of additional Preferred Shares of the same series subject always to the Companies Acts, the Memorandum and these Articles.
 
16.
                              
No dividend shall be declared and set apart for payment on any series of Preferred Shares in respect of any Dividend Period unless there shall likewise be or have been paid, or declared and set apart for payment, on all Preferred Shares of each other series entitled to cumulative dividends at the time outstanding that rank senior or equally as to dividends with the series in question, dividends ratably in accordance with the sums which would be payable on the said Preferred Shares through the end of the last preceding Dividend Period if all dividends were declared and paid in full.
 
17.
                              
If, upon the winding up of the Company, the assets of the Company distributable among the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Shares which (i) are entitled to a preference over the holders of the Ordinary Shares upon such winding up, and (ii) rank equally in connection with any such distribution, shall be insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount to which the holders of such Preferred Shares shall be entitled, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of each such series of the Preferred Shares ratably in accordance with the sums which would be payable on such distribution if all sums payable were discharged in full.
 
18.
                              
The Board may issue warrants to subscribe for any class of Shares or other securities of the Company on such terms as it may from time to time determine.
 
19.
                              
Unless otherwise provided for by the Board or the rights attaching to or by the terms of issue of any particular Shares, or to the extent required by any stock exchange, depository, or any operator of any clearance or settlement system, no person whose name is entered as a Member in the Register of Members shall be entitled to receive a share certificate for all his Shares of each class held by him (nor on transferring a part of holding, to a certificate for the balance).
20.
                              
Any share certificate, if issued, shall specify the number of Shares in respect of which it is issued and the amount paid thereon or the fact that they are fully paid, as the case may be, and may otherwise be in such form as shall be determined by the Board. Such certificates may be under Seal. All certificates for Shares shall be consecutively numbered or otherwise identified and shall specify the Shares to which they relate. The name and address of the person to whom the Shares represented thereby are issued, with the number of Shares and date of issue, shall be entered in the Register of Members of the Company. All certificates surrendered to the Company for transfer shall be cancelled and no new certificate shall be issued until the former certificate for a like number of Shares shall have been surrendered and cancelled. The Board may authorise certificates to be issued with the seal and authorised signature(s) affixed by some method or system of mechanical process. In respect of a Share or Shares held jointly by several persons, the Company shall not be bound to issue a certificate or certificates to each such person, and the issue and delivery of a certificate or certificates to one of several joint holders shall be sufficient delivery to all such holders.
 
21.
                              
If a share certificate is defaced, worn out, lost or destroyed, it may be renewed on such terms (if any) as to evidence and indemnity and on the payment of such expenses reasonably incurred by the Company in investigating such evidence, as the Board may prescribe, and, in the case of defacement or wearing out, upon delivery of the old certificate.
 
22.
                              
The Company shall maintain or caused to be maintained a Register of its Members in accordance with the Companies Acts.
 
23.
                              
If the Board considers it necessary or appropriate, the Company may establish and maintain a duplicate Register or Registers of Members at such location or locations within or outside Ireland as the Board thinks fit.  The original Register of Members shall be treated as the Register of Members for the purposes of these Articles and the Companies Acts.
 
24.
                              
The Company, or any agent(s) appointed by it to maintain the duplicate Register of Members in accordance with these Articles, shall as soon as practicable and on a regular basis record or procure the recording in the original Register of Members all transfers of Shares effected on any duplicate Register of Members and shall at all times maintain the original Register of Members in such manner as to show at all times the Members for the time being and the Shares respectively held by them, in all respects in accordance with the Companies Acts.
 
25.
                              
The Company shall not be bound to register more than four persons as joint holders of any Share.  If any Share shall stand in the names of two or more persons, the person first named in the Register of Members shall be deemed the sole holder thereof as regards service of notices and, subject to the provisions of these Articles, all or any other matters connected with the Company.
 
26.
                              
All transfers of Shares may be effected by an instrument of transfer in the usual common form or in such other form as the Board may approve.  All instruments of transfer must be left at the registered office of the Company or at such other place as the Board may appoint and all such instruments of transfer shall be retained by the Company.
 
27.
                              
(1)
           
The instrument of transfer shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor.  The instrument of transfer of any Share shall be in writing and shall be executed with a manual signature or facsimile signature (which may be machine imprinted or otherwise) by or on behalf of the transferor provided that in the case of execution by facsimile signature by or on behalf of a transferor, the Board shall have previously been provided with a list of specimen signatures of the authorised signatories of such
transferor and the Board shall be reasonably satisfied that such facsimile signature corresponds to one of those specimen signatures.
 
(2)
                                 
The instrument of transfer of any Share may be executed for and on behalf of the transferor by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and the Secretary or Assistant Secretary shall be deemed to have been irrevocably appointed agent for the transferor of such Share or Shares with full power to execute, complete and deliver in the name of and on behalf of the transferor of such Share or Shares all such transfers of Shares held by the Members in the share capital of the Company. Any document which records the name of the transferor, the name of the transferee, the class and number of Shares agreed to be transferred, the date of the agreement to transfer Shares, shall, once executed by the transferor or the Secretary or Assistant Secretary as agent for the transferor, be deemed to be a proper instrument of transfer for the purposes of section 81 of the 1963 Act. The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of the Share until the name of the transferee is entered on the Register in respect thereof, and neither the title of the transferee nor the title of the transferor shall be affected by any irregularity or invalidity in the proceedings in reference to the sale should the Directors so determine.
 
(3)
                                 
The Company, at its absolute discretion, may, or may procure that a subsidiary of the Company shall, pay Irish stamp duty arising on a transfer of Shares on behalf of the transferee of such Shares of the Company. If stamp duty resulting from the transfer of Shares in the Company which would otherwise be payable by the transferee is paid by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company on behalf of the transferee, then in those circumstances, the Company shall, on its behalf or on behalf of its subsidiary (as the case may be), be entitled to (i) seek reimbursement of the stamp duty from the transferee, (ii) set-off the stamp duty against any dividends payable to the transferee of those Shares and (iii) to claim a first and permanent lien on the Shares on which stamp duty has been paid by the Company or its subsidiary for the amount of stamp duty paid. The Company's lien shall extend to all dividends paid on those Shares.
 
(4)
                                 
Notwithstanding the provisions of these Articles and subject to any regulations made under section 239 of the 1990 Act, title to any Shares in the Company may also be evidenced and transferred without a written instrument in accordance with section 239 of the 1990 Act or any regulations made thereunder. The Directors shall have power to permit any class of Shares to be held in uncertificated form and to implement any arrangements they think fit for such evidencing and transfer which accord with such regulations and in particular shall, where appropriate, be entitled to disapply or modify all or part of the provisions in these Articles with respect to the requirement for written instruments of transfer and share certificates (if any), in order to give effect to such regulations.
 
28.
                              
The Board may, in its absolute discretion, and without assigning any reason, refuse to register a transfer of any Share unless:
 
(a)
                                 
the instrument of transfer is lodged with the Company accompanied by the certificate for the Shares (if any) to which it relates (which shall upon registration of the transfer be cancelled) and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer;
 
(b)
                                
the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of Shares;
 
(c)
                                 
the instrument of transfer is properly stamped (in circumstances where stamping is required);
(d)
                                
in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to which the Share is to be transferred does not exceed four; and
 
(e)
                                 
a fee of such maximum amount as the Exchange (if any) may from time to time determine to be payable (or such lesser sum as the Board may from time to time require) is paid to the Company in respect thereof.
 
29.
                              
If the Board shall refuse to register a transfer of any Share, it shall, within two (2) months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with the Company, send to each of the transferor and the transferee notice of such refusal.
 
30.
                              
The Company shall not be obligated to make any transfer to an infant or to a person in respect of whom an order has been made by a competent court or official on the grounds that he is or may be suffering from mental disorder or is otherwise incapable of managing his affairs or under other legal disability.
 
31.
                              
Upon every transfer of Shares the certificate (if any) held by the transferor shall be given up to be cancelled, and shall forthwith be cancelled accordingly, and a new certificate may be issued without charge to the transferee in respect of the Shares transferred to him, and if any of the Shares included in the certificate so given up shall be retained by the transferor, a new certificate in respect thereof may be issued to him without charge. The Company shall also retain the instrument(s) of transfer.
 
32.
                              
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and these Articles, the Company may issue Redeemable Shares that are to be redeemed or are liable to be redeemed at the option of the Member or the Company.  The redemption of Ordinary Shares shall be effected in accordance with Article 11 and in such manner as the Company may, by Special Resolution, determine before the issue of the Ordinary Shares and the redemption of Preferred Shares shall be effected in such manner as the Board may, by resolution, determine before the issue of the Preferred Shares.
 
33.
                              
Subject to the Companies Acts, the Company may, without prejudice to any relevant special rights attached to any class of Shares pursuant to section 211, of the 1990 Act, purchase any of its own Shares whether in the market, by tender or by private agreement, at such prices (whether at nominal value or above or below nominal value) and otherwise on such terms and conditions as the Board may from time to time determine including any Redeemable Shares and without any obligation to purchase on any pro rata basis as between Members or Members of the same class (the whole or any part of the amount payable on any such purchase may be paid or satisfied otherwise than in cash, to the extent permitted by the Companies Acts) and may cancel any Shares so purchased or hold them as treasury shares (as defined in section 209 of the 1990 Act) and may reissue any such Shares as Shares of any class or classes.
 
34.
                              
The Company may make a payment in respect of the redemption or purchase of its own Shares in any manner permitted by the Companies Acts.
 
35.
                              
The holder of the Shares being purchased shall be bound to deliver up to the Company at its registered office or such other place as the Board shall specify, the certificate(s) (if any) thereof for cancellation and thereupon the Company shall pay to him the purchase or redemption monies or consideration in respect thereof.
36.
                              
If at any time the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes of Shares, the rights attached to any class (unless otherwise provided by the terms of issue of the Shares of that class) may be varied or abrogated with the consent in writing of the holders of three-fourths of the issued Shares of that class, or with the sanction of a Special Resolution passed at a general meeting of the holders of the Shares of that class.
 
37.
                              
The provisions of these Articles relating to general meetings shall apply mutatis mutandis to every such general meeting of the holders of one class of Shares except that the necessary quorum shall be one person holding or representing by proxy at least one-third of the issued Shares of the class.
 
38.
                              
The rights conferred upon the holders of the Shares of any class issued with preferred or other rights shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue of the Shares of that class, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further Shares ranking therewith or be deemed to be varied by a purchase or redemption by the Company of its own Shares.  The rights of holders of Ordinary Shares shall not be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of Shares with preferred or other rights which may be effected by the Board as provided in these Articles without any vote or consent of the holders of Ordinary Shares.
pari passu
 
39.
                              
The Company shall have a first and paramount lien on every Share (not being a fully paid Share) for all moneys (whether presently payable or not) payable at a fixed time or called in respect of that Share.  The Directors, at any time, may declare any Share to be wholly or in part exempt from the provisions of this Article. The Company's lien on a Share shall extend to all moneys payable in respect of it.
 
40.
                              
The Company may sell in such manner as the Directors determine any Share on which the Company has a lien if a sum in respect of which the lien exists is presently payable and is not paid within fourteen clear days after notice demanding payment, and stating that if the notice is not complied with the Share may be sold, has been given to the holder of the Share or to the person entitled to it by reason of the death or bankruptcy of the holder.
 
41.
                              
To give effect to a sale, the Directors may authorise some person to execute an instrument of transfer of the Share sold to, or in accordance with the directions of, the purchaser.  The transferee shall be entered in the Register as the holder of the Share comprised in any such transfer and he shall not be bound to see to the application of the purchase moneys nor shall his title to the Share be affected by any irregularity in or invalidity of the proceedings in reference to the sale, and after the name of the transferee has been entered in the Register, the remedy of any person aggrieved by the sale shall be in damages only and against the Company exclusively.
 
42.
                              
The net proceeds of the sale, after payment of the costs, shall be applied in payment of so much of the sum for which the lien exists as is presently payable and any residue (upon surrender to the Company for cancellation of the certificate for the Shares sold and subject to a like lien for any moneys not presently payable as existed upon the Shares before the sale) shall be paid to the person entitled to the Shares at the date of the sale.
 
43.
                              
Subject to the terms of allotment, the Directors may make calls upon the Members in respect of any moneys unpaid on their Shares and each Member (subject to receiving at least fourteen clear days' notice specifying when and where payment is to be made) shall pay to the
Company as required by the notice the amount called on his Shares.  A call may be required to be paid by instalments.  A call may be revoked before receipt by the Company of a sum due thereunder, in whole or in part and payment of a call may be postponed in whole or in part.  A person upon whom a call is made shall remain liable for calls made upon him notwithstanding the subsequent transfer of the Shares in respect of which the call was made.
 
44.
                              
A call shall be deemed to have been made at the time when the resolution of the Directors authorising the call was passed.
 
45.
                              
The joint holders of a Share shall be jointly and severally liable to pay all calls in respect thereof.
 
46.
                              
If a call remains unpaid after it has become due and payable the person from whom it is due and payable shall pay interest on the amount unpaid from the day it became due until it is paid at the rate fixed by the terms of allotment of the Share or in the notice of the call or, if no rate is fixed, at the appropriate rate (as defined by the Companies Acts) but the Directors may waive payment of the interest wholly or in part.
 
47.
                              
An amount payable in respect of a Share on allotment or at any fixed date, whether in respect of nominal value or as an instalment of a call, shall be deemed to be a call and if it is not paid the provisions of these Articles shall apply as if that amount had become due and payable by virtue of a call.
 
48.
                              
Subject to the terms of allotment, the Directors may make arrangements on the issue of Shares for a difference between the holders in the amounts and times of payment of calls on their Shares.
 
49.
                              
The Directors, if they think fit, may receive from any Member willing to advance the same all or any part of the moneys uncalled and unpaid upon any Shares held by him, and upon all or any of the moneys so advanced may pay (until the same would, but for such advance, become payable) interest at such rate, not exceeding (unless the Company in general meeting otherwise directs) fifteen per cent. per annum, as may be agreed upon between the Directors and the Member paying such sum in advance.
 
50.
                              
If a Member fails to pay any call or instalment of a call on the day appointed for payment thereof, the Directors, at any time thereafter during such times as any part of the call or instalment remains unpaid, may serve a notice on him requiring payment of so much of the call or instalment as is unpaid together with any interest which may have accrued.
 
51.
                              
The notice shall name a further day (not earlier than the expiration of fourteen clear days from the date of service of the notice) on or before which the payment required by the notice is to be made, and shall state that in the event of non-payment at or before the time appointed the Shares in respect of which the call was made will be liable to be forfeited.
 
52.
                              
If the requirements of any such notice as aforesaid are not complied with then, at any time thereafter before the payment required by the notice has been made, any Shares in respect of which the notice has been given may be forfeited by a resolution of the Directors to that effect.  The forfeiture shall include all dividends or other moneys payable in respect of the forfeited Shares and not paid before forfeiture.  The Directors may accept a surrender of any Share liable to be forfeited hereunder.
 
53.
                              
On the trial or hearing of any action for the recovery of any money due for any call it shall be sufficient to prove that the name of the Member sued is entered in the Register as the holder, or one of the holders, of the Shares in respect of which such debt accrued, that the resolution
 
making the call is duly recorded in the minute book and that notice of such call was duly given to the Member sued, in pursuance of these Articles, and it shall not be necessary to prove the appointment of the Directors who made such call nor any other matters whatsoever, but the proof of the matters aforesaid shall be conclusive evidence of the debt.
 
54.
                              
A forfeited Share may be sold or otherwise disposed of on such terms and in such manner as the Directors think fit and at any time before a sale or disposition the forfeiture may be cancelled on such terms as the Directors think fit.  Where for the purposes of its disposal such a Share is to be transferred to any person, the Directors may authorise some person to execute an instrument of transfer of the Share to that person.  The Company may receive the consideration, if any, given for the Share on any sale or disposition thereof and may execute a transfer of the Share in favour of the person to whom the Share is sold or disposed of and thereupon he shall be registered as the holder of the Share and shall not be bound to see to the application of the purchase money, if any, nor shall his title to the Share be affected by any irregularity or invalidity in the proceedings in reference to the forfeiture, sale or disposal of the Share.
 
55.
                              
A person whose Shares have been forfeited shall cease to be a Member in respect of the forfeited Shares, but nevertheless shall remain liable to pay to the Company all moneys which, at the date of forfeiture, were payable by him to the Company in respect of the Shares, without any deduction or allowance for the value of the Shares at the time of forfeiture but his liability shall cease if and when the Company shall have received payment in full of all such moneys in respect of the Shares.
 
56.
                              
A statutory declaration that the declarant is a Director or the Secretary of the Company, and that a Share in the Company has been duly forfeited on the date stated in the declaration, shall be conclusive evidence of the facts therein stated as against all persons claiming to be entitled to the Share.
 
57.
                              
The provisions of these Articles as to forfeiture shall apply in the case of non-payment of any sum which, by the terms of issue of a Share, becomes payable at a fixed time, whether on account of the nominal value of the Share or by way of premium, as if the same had been payable by virtue of a call duly made and notified.
 
58.
                              
The Directors may accept the surrender of any Share which the Directors have resolved to have been forfeited upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed and, subject to any such terms and conditions, a surrendered Share shall be treated as if it has been forfeited.
 
59.
                              
The Company may exercise the powers of paying commissions to any person in consideration of his subscribing or agreeing to subscribe whether absolutely or conditionally for any Shares of the Company.  Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, such commissions may be satisfied by the payment of cash or the lodgement of fully or partly paid-up Shares or partly in one way and partly in the other.  The Company may also on any issue of Shares pay such brokerage as may be lawful.
 
60.
                              
The Company shall not be obligated to recognise any person as holding any Share upon any trust (except as is otherwise provided in these Articles or to the extent required by law) and the Company shall not be bound by or be compelled in any way to recognise (even when having notice thereof) any equitable, contingent, future, or partial interest in any Share, or any interest in any fractional part of a Share, or (except only as is otherwise provided by these Articles or the Companies Acts) any other rights in respect of any Share except an absolute right to the entirety thereof in the registered holder. This shall not preclude the Company from
requiring the Members or a transferee of Shares to furnish to the Company with information as to the beneficial ownership of any Share when such information is reasonably required by the Company.
 
61.
                              
In case of the death of a Member, the survivor or survivors where the deceased was a joint holder, and the legal personal representatives of the deceased where he was a sole holder, shall be the only persons recognised by the Company as having any title to his interest in the Shares, but nothing herein contained shall release the estate of any such deceased holder from any liability in respect of any Shares which had been held by him solely or jointly with other persons.
 
62.
                              
Any person becoming entitled to a Share in consequence of the death or bankruptcy or liquidation or dissolution of a Member (or in any other way than by transfer) may, upon such evidence being produced as may from time to time be required by the Board and subject as hereinafter provided, elect either to be registered himself as holder of the Share or to make such transfer of the Share to such other person nominated by him and to have such person registered as the transferee thereof, but the Board shall, in either case, have the same right to decline or suspend registration as they would have had in the case of a transfer of the Share by that Member before his death or bankruptcy as the case may be.
 
63.
                              
If the person so becoming entitled shall elect to be registered himself as holder he shall deliver or send to the Company a notice in writing signed by him stating that he so elects.
 
64.
                              
A person becoming entitled to a Share by reason of the death or bankruptcy or liquidation or dissolution of the holder (or in any other case than by transfer) shall be entitled to the same dividends and other advantages to which he would be entitled if he were the registered holder of the Share, except that he shall not, before being registered as a Member in respect of the Share, be entitled in respect of it to exercise any right conferred by membership in relation to meetings of the Company provided however that the Board may at any time give notice requiring any such person to elect either to be registered himself or to transfer the Share and if the notice is not complied with within ninety days the Board may thereafter withhold payment of all dividends, bonuses or other monies payable in respect of the Share until the requirements of the notice have been complied with.
 
65.
                              
The Company may by Ordinary Resolution:
 
(a)
                               
increase the share capital by such sum and with such rights, priorities and privileges annexed thereto, as such Ordinary Resolution shall prescribe;
 
(b)
                              
consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into Shares of larger amount than its existing Shares;
 
(c)
                               
by subdivision of its existing Shares or any of them divide the whole or any part of its share capital into Shares of smaller nominal value than is fixed by the Memorandum subject to section 68(1)(d) of the 1963 Act, so, however, that in the sub-division the proportion between the amount paid and the amount, if any, unpaid on each reduced Share shall be the same as it was in the case of the Share from which the reduced Share is derived;
(d)
                              
cancel any Shares that at the date of the passing of the relevant Ordinary Resolution have not been taken or agreed to be taken by any person; and
 
(e)
                               
subject to applicable law, change the currency denomination of its share capital.
 
66.
                              
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company may
 
(a)
                               
by Special Resolution change its name, alter or add to the Memorandum with respect to any objects, powers or other matters specified therein or alter or add to these Articles.
 
(b)
                              
by Special Resolution reduce its issued share capital and any capital redemption reserve fund or any share premium account.
 
(c)
                               
by resolution of the Directors change the location of its registered office.
 
67.
                              
For the purpose of determining Members entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of Members or any adjournment thereof, or Members entitled to receive payment of any dividend, or in order to make a determination of Members for any other proper purpose, the Board may provide, subject to the requirements of section 121 of the 1963 Act, that the Register of Members shall be closed for transfers at such times and for such periods, not exceeding in the whole 30 days in each year.  If the Register of Members shall be so closed for the purpose of determining Members entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of Members such Register of Members shall be so closed for at least five (5) days immediately preceding such meeting and the record date for such determination shall be the date of the closure of the Register of Members.
 
68.
                              
In lieu of, or apart from, closing the Register of Members, the Board may fix in advance a date as the record date (a) for any such determination of Members entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the Members, which record date shall not be more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, and (b) for the purpose of determining the Members entitled to receive payment of any dividend, or in order to make a determination of Members for any other proper purpose, which record date shall not be more than sixty (60) days prior to the date of payment of such dividend or the taking of any action to which such determination of Members is relevant. The record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Directors
 
69.
                              
If the Register of Members is not so closed and no record date is fixed for the determination of Members entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of Members or Members entitled to receive payment of a dividend, the date immediately preceding the date on which notice of the meeting is deemed given under these Articles or the date on which the resolution of the Directors declaring such dividend is adopted, as the case may be, shall be the record date for such determination of Members.  When a determination of Members entitled to vote at any meeting of Members has been made as provided in these Articles, such determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof; provided, however, that the Directors may fix a new record date of the adjourned meeting, if they think fit.
 
70.
                              
The Company, in accordance with requirements of the Companies Acts, shall in each calendar year hold a general meeting as its annual general meeting, and shall specify the meeting as such in the notices calling it. The annual general meeting shall be held at such time and place as the Directors shall appoint, provided that the period between the date of one annual general
meeting of the Company and that of the next shall not be longer than such period as applicable law or the relevant code, rules and regulations applicable to the listing of the Shares on the Exchange permits. At these meetings the report of the Directors (if any) shall be presented.
 
71.
                              
The Board may whenever it thinks fit, and shall, on the requisition in writing of Members holding such number of Shares as is prescribed by, and made in accordance with the Companies Acts, proceed to convene a general meeting of the Company. All general meetings other than annual general meetings shall be called extraordinary general meetings. Subject always to section 140 of the 1963 Act and the necessary Member approvals, all general meetings of the Company may be held at such place, either inside or outside of Ireland, as determined by the Board, provided, that in the case of annual general meetings, for as long as Shares are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, of the United States of America (the "") and the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, not more than one (1) in every four (4) of such meetings shall be held outside of the United States of America.
Exchange Act
 
72.
                              
The Board may, in its sole discretion, but subject always to the approval of Members as to the holding of general meeting outside of Ireland as described in Article 71, determine that a general meeting shall not be held at any place, but may instead be held solely by means of remote communication that enables Members and proxies entitled to attend the meeting to listen to the meeting, watch the meeting or both and send questions to the Chairman of the meeting, to be addressed at the meeting, if deemed proper ("") as follows:
Remote Communication
 
(a)
                               
if authorized by the Board in its sole discretion, and subject to such guidelines and procedures as the Board may adopt, Members and proxies entitled to attend and vote but not physically present at a meeting of Members may, by means of Remote Communication:
 
(i)
                                  
participate in a meeting of Members; and
 
(ii)
                               
be deemed present in person and vote at a meeting of Members whether such meeting is to be held at a designated place or solely by means of Remote Communication.
 
if authorised by the Board, any vote taken by written ballot may be satisfied by a ballot submitted by electronic transmission, provided that any such electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the electronic transmission was authorized by the Member or proxy. Any such general meeting shall be deemed to have taken place at the location of the majority of the Board.
 
73.
                              
For as long as Shares are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act and the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, in the event that any annual general meeting is held outside of the United States of America, the Board shall provide Members and proxies entitled to attend such meeting with access to such meeting by way of Remote Communication.
 
74.
                              
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts allowing a general meeting to be called by shorter notice, an annual general meeting, and an extraordinary general meeting called for the passing of a Special Resolution, shall be called by at least twenty-one (21) clear days notice and all other extraordinary general meetings shall be called by at least fourteen (14) clear days notice. Such notice shall state the date, time, place and purposes of the general meeting to which it relates.  Every notice shall be exclusive of the day on which it is given or deemed to
be given and of the day for which it is given and shall specify such other details as are required by applicable law or the relevant code, rules and regulations applicable to the listing of the Shares on the Exchange.
 
75.
                              
A general meeting of the Company shall, whether or not the notice specified in this regulation has been given and whether or not the provisions of the Articles regarding general meetings have been complied with, be deemed to have been duly convened if applicable law so permits and it is so agreed by the Auditors and by all the Members entitled to attend and vote thereat or their proxies.
 
76.
                              
The notice convening an annual general meeting shall specify the meeting as such, and the notice convening a meeting to pass a Special Resolution shall specify the intention to propose the resolution as a Special Resolution.  Notice of every general meeting shall be given to all Members other than such as, under the provisions hereof or the terms of issue of the Shares they hold, are not entitled to receive such notice from the Company.
 
77.
                              
There shall appear with reasonable prominence in every notice of general meetings of the Company a statement that a Member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote instead of him and that a proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
 
78.
                              
The accidental omission to give notice of a general meeting to, or the non-receipt of notice of a meeting by any person entitled to receive notice shall not invalidate the proceedings of that meeting.
 
79.
                              
In cases where instruments of proxy are sent out with notices, the accidental omission to send such instrument of proxy to, or the non-receipt of such instrument of proxy by, any person entitled to receive notice shall not invalidate any resolution passed or any proceeding at any such meeting. A Member present, either in person or by proxy, at any general meeting of the Company or of the holders of any class of Shares in the Company, will be deemed to have received notice of that meeting and, where required, of the purpose for which it was called.
 
80.
                              
All business shall be deemed special that is transacted at an extraordinary general meeting, and also all that is transacted at an annual general meeting, with the exception of declaring a dividend, the consideration of the accounts, balance sheets and the reports of the Directors and Auditors, the election of Directors, the re-appointment of the retiring Auditors and the fixing of the remuneration of the Auditors.
 
81.
                              
No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless a quorum is present.  One or more Members present in person or by proxy holding not less than a majority of the issued and outstanding Shares of the Company entitled to vote at the meeting in question shall be a quorum.
 
82.
                              
If within one hour from the time appointed for the meeting a quorum is not present, the meeting, if convened upon the requisition of Members, shall be dissolved and in any other case it shall stand adjourned to the same day in the next week at the same time and place or to such other time or such other place as the Board may determine and if at the adjourned meeting a quorum is not present within one hour from the time appointed for the meeting the Members present shall be a quorum.
 
83.
                              
The Chairman, if any, of the Board shall preside as Chairman at every general meeting of the Company, or if there is no such Chairman, or if he shall not be present within one hour after the time appointed for the holding of the meeting, or is unwilling to act, the Directors present shall elect one of their number to be Chairman of the meeting or if all of the Directors present
decline to take the chair, then the Members present shall choose one of their own number to be Chairman of the meeting.
 
84.
                              
The Chairman may, with the consent of any general meeting duly constituted hereunder, and shall if so directed by the meeting, adjourn the meeting from time to time and from place to place, but no business shall be transacted at any adjourned meeting other than the business left unfinished at the meeting from which the adjournment took place.  When a general meeting is adjourned for thirty days or more, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given as in the case of an original meeting; save as aforesaid it shall not be necessary to give any notice of an adjournment or of the business to be transacted at an adjourned general meeting.  No business shall be transacted at any adjourned meeting other than the business which might have been transacted at the meeting from which the adjournment took place.
 
85.
                              
(1)
           
Subject to the Companies Acts, a resolution may only be put to a vote at a general meeting of the Company or of any class of Members if:
 
(i)
                                  
it is proposed by or at the direction of the Board; or
 
(ii)
                               
it is proposed at the direction of the Court; or
 
(iii)
                            
it is proposed on the requisition in writing of such number of Members as is prescribed by, and is made in accordance with section 132 of the 1963 Act;
 
(iv)
                           
it is proposed pursuant to, and in accordance with the procedures and requirements of, Articles 93 or 94; or
 
(v)
                              
the Chairman of the meeting in his absolute discretion decides that the resolution may properly be regarded as within the scope of the meeting.
 
(2)
                               
No amendment may be made to a resolution, at or before the time when it is put to a vote, unless the Chairman of the meeting in his absolute discretion decides that the amendment or the amended resolution may properly be put to a vote at that meeting.
 
(3)
                               
If the Chairman of the meeting rules a resolution or an amendment to a resolution admissible or out of order (as the case may be), the proceedings of the meeting or on the resolution in question shall not be invalidated by any error in his ruling. Any ruling by the Chairman of the meeting in relation to a resolution or an amendment to a resolution shall be final and conclusive.
 
86.
                              
Except where a greater majority is required by the Companies Acts or these Articles, any question proposed for consideration at any general meeting of the Company or of any class of Members shall be decided by an Ordinary Resolution.
 
87.
                              
At any general meeting a resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show of hands unless a poll is (before or on the declaration of the result of the show of hands) demanded by:
 
(a)
                               
the Chairman; or
 
(b)
                              
by at least five Members present in person or by proxy; or
 
(c)
                               
by any Member or Members present in person or by proxy and representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all the Members having the right to vote at the meeting; or
 
(d)
                              
by a Member or Members holding shares in the Company conferring the right to vote at the meeting being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
 
Unless a poll is so demanded, a declaration by the Chairman that a resolution has, on a show of hands, been carried or carried unanimously, or by a particular majority, or lost, and an entry to that effect in the book containing the minutes of the proceedings of the Company, shall be conclusive evidence of the fact without proof of the number or proportion of the votes recorded in favour of or against such resolution. The demand for a poll may be withdrawn.
 
88.
                              
Except as provided in Article 89, if a poll is duly demanded it shall be taken in such manner as the Chairman directs, and the result of the poll shall be deemed to be the resolution of the meeting at which the poll was demanded.
 
89.
                              
A poll demanded on the election of the Chairman or on a question of adjournment shall be taken forthwith. A poll demanded on any other question shall be taken at such time, not being not being more than ten days from the date of the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the vote was taken, as the Chairman of the meeting directs, and any business other than that on which a poll has been demanded may be proceeded with pending the taking of the poll.
 
90.
                              
No notice need be given of a poll not taken immediately. The result of the poll shall be deemed to be the resolution of the general meeting at which the poll was demanded. On a poll a Member entitled to more than one vote need not use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way.
 
91.
                              
In the case of an equality of votes the Chairman of the general meeting at which the poll is taken shall not be entitled to a second or casting vote.
 
92.
                              
Nominations of persons for election to the Board (other than directors to be nominated by any series of Preferred Shares, voting separately as a class) at a general meeting may only be made (a) pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting pursuant to Article 74 at the recommendation of the Board, (b) by or at the direction of the Board or any authorised committee thereof or (c) by any Member who (i) complies with the notice procedures set forth in Articles 93 or 94, as applicable, (ii) was a Member at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary and on the record date for the determination of Members entitled to vote at such general meeting and (iii) is present at the relevant general meeting, either in person or by proxy, to present his nomination, provided, however, that Members shall only be entitled to nominate persons for election to the Board at annual general meetings or at general meetings called specifically for the purpose of electing directors.
 
93.
                              
For nominations of persons for election to the Board (other than directors to be nominated by any series of Preferred Shares, voting separately as a class) to be properly brought before an annual general meeting by a Member, such annual general meeting must have been called for the purpose of, among other things, electing directors and such Member must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary. To be timely, a Member's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the registered office of the Company, or such other address as the Secretary may designate, not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days prior to the first anniversary of the date the Company's proxy statement was first released to Members in connection with the prior year's annual general meeting; provided, however, that in the event the date of the annual general meeting is changed by more than 30 days from the first anniversary date of the prior year's annual general meeting, notice by the Member of Shares to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 150th day prior to such annual general
meeting and not later than the later of the 120th day prior to such annual general meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made.  Such Member's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the Member proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, of the United States of America, as amended, or any successor provisions thereto, including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected and (b) as to the Member giving the notice (i) the name and address of such Member, as they appear on the Register of Members, (ii) the class and number of Shares that are owned beneficially and/or of record by such Member, (iii) a representation that the Member is a registered holder of Shares entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such nomination and (iv) a statement as to whether the Member intends or is part of a group that intends (x) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Company's outstanding share capital required to approve or elect the nominee and/or (xi) otherwise to solicit proxies from Members in support of such nomination.  The Board may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Company, including such evidence satisfactory to the Board that such nominee has no interests that would limit such nominee's ability to fulfil his duties as a director.
 
94.
                              
For nominations of persons for election to the Board (other than directors to be nominated by any series of Preferred Shares, voting separately as a class) to be properly brought before a general meeting other than an annual general meeting by a Member, such Member must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary. To be timely, a Member's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the registered office of the Company or such other address as the Secretary may designate, not earlier than the 150
th
 day prior to such general meeting and not later than the 120
th
 day prior to such general meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the general meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board to be elected at such meeting. Such Member's notice shall set forth the same information as is required by provisions (a) and (b) of Article 93.
 
95.
                              
Unless otherwise provided by the terms of any series of Preferred Shares or any agreement among Members or other agreement approved by the Board, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in Articles 93 and 94 shall be eligible to serve as directors of the Company.  If the Chairman of a general meeting determines that a proposed nomination was not made in compliance with Articles 93 and 94, he shall declare to the meeting that nomination is defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of these Articles, if the Member (or a qualified representative of the Member) does not appear at the general meeting to present his nomination, such nomination shall be disregarded.
 
96.
                              
Subject to any rights or restrictions for the time being attached to any class or classes of Shares, every Member of record present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for each Share registered in his name in the Register of Members.
 
97.
                              
In the case of joint holders of record the vote of the senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders, and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
98.
                              
A Member of unsound mind, or in respect of whom an order has been made by any court, having jurisdiction in lunacy, may vote by his committee, receiver, curator bonis, or other person in the nature of a committee, receiver or curator bonis appointed by that court, and any such committee, receiver, curator bonis or other persons may vote by proxy.
 
99.
                              
No Member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting unless he is registered as a Member on the record date for such meeting.
 
100.
                        
No objection shall be raised to the qualification of any voter except at the general meeting or adjourned general meeting at which the vote objected to is given or tendered and every vote not disallowed at such general meeting shall be valid for all purposes.  Any such objection made in due time shall be referred to the Chairman of the general meeting whose decision shall be final and conclusive.
 
101.
                        
Votes may be given either personally or by proxy.  A Member may appoint more than one proxy or the same proxy under one or more instruments to attend and vote at a meeting and may appoint one proxy to vote both in favour of and against the same resolution in such proportion as specified in the instrument appointing the proxy.  Where a Member appoints more than one proxy the instrument of proxy shall state which proxy is entitled to vote on a show of hands.
 
102.
                        
The rules and procedures relating to the form or a proxy, the depositing or filing of proxies and voting pursuant to a proxy and any other matter incidental thereto shall be approved by the Board, subject to such rules and procedures as required by applicable law or the relevant code, rules and regulations applicable to the listing of the Shares on the Exchange and as provided in the following Articles under this heading of "".
PROXIES
 
103.
                        
(1)
                                 
Every Member or Beneficial Owner entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting may appoint a proxy to attend, speak and vote on his behalf and may appoint more than one proxy to attend, speak and vote at the same meeting. The appointment of a proxy shall be in any form which the Directors may approve and, if required by the Company, shall be signed by or on behalf of the appointor. In relation to written proxies, a body corporate may sign a form of proxy under its common seal or under the hand of a duly authorised officer thereof or in such other manner as the Directors may approve. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. The appointment of a proxy in electronic or other form shall only be effective in such manner as the Directors may approve.
 
(2)
                               
Without limiting the foregoing, the Directors may from time to time permit appointments of a proxy to be made by means of an electronic or internet communication or facility and may in a similar manner permit supplements to, or amendments or revocations of, any such electronic or internet communication or facility to be made. The Directors may in addition prescribe the method of determining the time at which any such electronic or internet communication or facility is to be treated as received by the Company. The Directors may treat any such electronic or internet communication or facility which purports to be or is expressed to be sent on behalf of a of a Member as sufficient evidence of the authority of the person sending that instruction to send it on behalf of that Member.  A proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
 
104.
                        
The instrument appointing a proxy may be in any usual or common form and may be expressed to be for a particular meeting or any adjournment thereof or generally until revoked.  An instrument appointing a proxy shall be deemed to include the power to demand or join or concur in demanding a poll.
105.
                        
Subject to the foregoing, a Member may appoint a proxy by means of an "omnibus" or "enduring" proxy with or without a power of substitution. Such "omnibus" or "enduring" proxy may provide that all persons who appear in a specified register maintained by the Depositary Trust Company ("") (each a "") may act as proxy for so long as the name of the specified holder appears in the specified DTC register in respect of the relevant number of shares which appear opposite the name of the specified holder in the DTC register from time to time in respect of all meetings of the Company, and if any specified holder does not attend a meeting of the Company, the relevant Member may appoint such other persons as may be nominated by the specified holder from time to time in accordance with the proxy registration system for specified holders as the Member's proxy in respect of all meetings of the Company.
DTC
specified holder
 
106.
                        
Any corporation or other non-natural person which is a Member may in accordance with its constitutional documents, or in the absence of such provision by resolution of its directors or other governing body, authorise such person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at any meeting of the Company or of any class of Members, and the person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of the corporation which he represents as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual Member.
 
107.
                        
(1)
                                 
There shall be a Board consisting of not less than two or more than fifteen persons, provided however that the Company may from time to time by Ordinary Resolution increase or reduce the upper limit.  So long as Shares of the Company are listed on an Exchange, the Board shall include such number of Independent Directors as the relevant code, rules or regulations applicable to the listing of any Shares on the Exchange require. The continuing Directors may act notwithstanding any vacancy in their body, provided that if the number of the Directors is reduced below the prescribed minimum the remaining Director or Directors shall appoint forthwith an additional Director or additional Directors to make up such minimum or shall convene a general meeting of the Company for the purpose of making such appointment, but for no other purpose.
 
(2)
                               
If, at any annual general meeting of the Company, the number of Directors is reduced below the prescribed minimum due to the failure of any Directors to be re-elected, then in those circumstances, the two Directors which receive the highest number of votes in favour of re-election shall be re-elected and shall remain Directors until such time as additional Directors have been appointed to replace them as Directors. lf, at any annual general meeting of the Company, the number of Directors is reduced below the prescribed minimum in any circumstances where one Director is re-elected, then that Director shall hold office until the next annual general meeting and the Director which (excluding the re-elected Director) receives the highest number of votes in favour of re-election shall be re-elected and shall remain a Director until such time as one or more additional Directors have been appointed to replace him or her. If there be no Director or Directors able or willing to act then any two Members may summon a general meeting for the purpose of appointing Directors. Any additional Director so appointed shall hold office (subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and these Articles) only until the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company next following such appointment unless he is re-elected during such meeting.
108.
                        
The remuneration to be paid to the Directors shall be such remuneration as the Directors shall determine.  Such remuneration shall be deemed to accrue from day to day.  The Directors shall also be entitled to be paid their travelling, hotel and other expenses properly incurred by them in going to, attending and returning from meetings of the Directors, or any committee of the Directors, or general meetings of the Company, or otherwise in connection with the business of the Company, or to receive a fixed allowance in respect thereof as may be determined by the Board from time to time, or a combination partly of one such method and partly the other.
 
109.
                        
The Board may approve additional remuneration to any Director undertaking any special work or services for, or undertaking any special mission on behalf of, the Company other than his ordinary routine work as a Director.  Any fees paid to a Director who is also counsel or solicitor to the Company, or otherwise serves it in a professional capacity shall be in addition to his remuneration as a Director.
 
110.
                        
The Board may approve additional remuneration to any Director for any services other than his ordinary routine work as a Director.  Any fees paid to a Director who is also legal counsel to the Company, or otherwise serves it in a professional capacity shall be in addition to his remuneration as a Director.
 
111.
                        
No shareholding qualification is required to be held by a Director.
 
112.
                        
A Director or an officer of the Company who is in any way, whether directly or indirectly, interested in a contract, transaction or arrangement or proposed contract, transaction or arrangement with the Company shall, in accordance with section 194 of the 1963 Act, declare the nature of his interest at the first opportunity either (a) at a meeting of the Board at which the question of entering into the contract, transaction or arrangement is first taken into consideration, if the Director or officer of the Company knows this interest then exists, or in any other case, at the first meeting of the Board after learning that he is or has become so interested or (b) by providing a general notice to the Directors declaring that he is a director or an officer of, or has an interest in, a person and is to be regarded as interested in any transaction or arrangement made with that person, and after giving such general notice it shall not be necessary to give special notice relating to any particular transaction.
 
113.
                        
A Director may hold any other office or place of profit under the Company (other than the office of its Auditor) in conjunction with his office of Director for such period and on such terms as to remuneration and otherwise as the Board may determine.
 
114.
                        
A Director may act by himself or his firm in a professional capacity for the Company (other than as its Auditor) and he or his firm shall be entitled to remuneration for professional services as if he were not a Director.
 
115.
                        
A Director may be or become a director, managing director, joint managing director, deputy managing director, executive director, manager or other officer or member of any other company or otherwise interested in any company promoted by the Company or in which the Company may be interested as shareholder or otherwise, and no such Director shall be accountable to the Company for any remuneration or other benefits received by him as a director, managing director, joint managing director, deputy managing director, executive director, manager or other officer or member of such other company; provided that he has
declared the nature of his position with, or interest in, such company to the Board in accordance with Article 112.
116.
                        
No person shall be disqualified from the office of Director or from being an officer of the Company or prevented by such office from contracting with the Company, either as vendor, purchaser or otherwise, nor shall any such contract or any contract or transaction entered into by or on behalf of the Company in which any Director or officer of the Company shall be in any way interested be or be liable to be avoided, nor shall any Director or officer of the Company so contracting or being so interested be liable to account to the Company for any profit realised by any such contract or transaction by reason of such Director or officer of the Company holding office or of the fiduciary relation thereby established; provided that:
 
(a)
                                 
he has declared the nature of his interest in such contract or transaction to the Board in accordance with Article 112; and
 
(b)
                                
the contract or transaction is approved by a majority of the disinterested Directors, notwithstanding the fact that the disinterested Directors may represent less than a quorum.
 
117.
                        
A Director may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board which authorises or approves the contract, transaction or arrangement in which he is interested and he shall be at liberty to vote in respect of any contract, transaction or arrangement in which he is interested, provided that the nature of the interest of any Director in any such contract or transaction shall be disclosed by him in accordance with Article 112, at or prior to its consideration and any vote thereon.
 
118.
                        
For the purposes of Article 112:-
 
(a)
                                 
a general notice given to the Directors that a Director is to be regarded as having an interest of the nature and extent specified in the notice in any transaction or arrangement in which a specified person or class of persons is interested shall be deemed to be a disclosure that the Director has an interest in any such transaction of the nature and extent so specified;
 
(b)
                                
an interest of which a Director has no knowledge and of which it is unreasonable to expect him to have knowledge shall not be treated as an interest of his; and
 
(c)
                                 
a copy of every declaration made and notice given under Article 112 shall be entered within three days after the making or giving thereof in a book kept for this purpose. Such book shall be open for inspection without charge by any Director, Secretary, Auditor or Member of the Company at the Registered Office and shall be produced at every general meeting of the Company and at any meeting of the Directors if any Director so requests in sufficient time to enable the book to be available at the meeting.
 
119.
                        
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Memorandum and the Articles and to any directions given by Special Resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.  No alteration of the Memorandum or Articles and no such direction shall invalidate any prior act of the Directors which would have been valid if that alteration had not been made or that direction had not been given.  A duly convened meeting of Directors at which a quorum is present may exercise all powers exercisable by the Board.
120.
                        
In addition to any other duties the Directors may owe to the Company or the Members under applicable law, the Directors shall owe a fiduciary duty to the Company and to the Members as a whole and, in discharging such fiduciary duties, they will act in good faith, in a manner that they believe to be in the best interests of the Company and the Members as a whole, in a manner consistent with the standards of care required by the courts of Ireland and the state of Delaware, in the United States of America.  A Director, by agreeing to serve, or to continue to serve, on the Board, will be deemed to have agreed to owe the duties to the Company and the Members specified in this Article 120.
 
121.
                        
All cheques, promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange and other negotiable instruments and all receipts for monies paid to the Company shall be signed, drawn, accepted, endorsed or otherwise executed as the case may be in such manner as the Board shall determine.
 
122.
                        
The Board on behalf of the Company may pay a gratuity or pension or allowance on retirement to any Director who has held any other salaried office or place of profit with the Company or to his widow or dependants and may make contributions to any fund and pay premiums for the purchase or provision of any such gratuity, pension or allowance.
 
123.
                        
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge its undertaking, property and uncalled capital or any part thereof and to issue debentures, debenture stock, mortgages, bonds and other such securities whether outright or as security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
 
124.
                        
The Company may exercise the powers conferred by section 41 of the 1963 Act with regard to having an official seal for use abroad and such powers shall be vested in the Directors.
 
125.
                        
The Board shall cause minutes to be made in books kept for the purpose of all appointments of officers made by the Board, all resolutions and proceedings at meetings of the Company or the holders of any class of Shares, of the Directors and of committees of Directors, including the names of the Directors present at each meeting.
 
126.
                        
The Board may delegate any of its powers (with power to sub-delegate) to any committee consisting of one or more Directors.  The Board may also delegate to any Director such of its powers as it considers desirable to be exercised by him.  Any such delegation may be made subject to any conditions the Board may impose, and either collaterally with or to the exclusion of its own powers and may be revoked or altered.  Subject to any such conditions, the proceedings of a committee of the Board shall be governed by the Articles regulating the proceedings of Directors, so far as they are capable of applying.
 
127.
                        
The Board may by power of attorney or otherwise appoint any person to be the agent of the Company on such conditions as the Board may determine, provided that the delegation is not to the exclusion of its own powers and may be revoked by the Board at any time.
 
128.
                        
The Board may by power of attorney or otherwise appoint any company, firm, person or body of persons, whether nominated directly or indirectly by the Board, to be the attorney or authorised signatory of the Company for such purpose and with such powers, authorities and discretions (not exceeding those vested in or exercisable by the Board under these Articles) and for such period and subject to such conditions as they may think fit, and any such powers of attorney or other appointment may contain such provisions for the protection and convenience of persons dealing with any such attorneys or authorised signatories as the Board may think fit and may also authorise any such attorney or authorised signatory to delegate all or any of the powers, authorities and discretions vested in him.
129.
                        
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more Chairman of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and such other officers as it considers necessary in the management of the business of the Company and as it may decide for such period and upon such terms as it thinks fit and upon such terms as to remuneration as it may decide in accordance with these Articles.  Such officers need not also be a Director.
 
130.
                        
Every person appointed to an office under Article 129 shall, without prejudice to any claim for damages that such person may have against the Company (or the Company may have against such person for any breach of any contract of service between him and the Company) be liable to be dismissed or removed at any time from such executive office by the Board. A Director appointed to an office under the above Article 129 shall and immediately cease to hold such executive office if he shall cease to hold the office of Director for any cause.
ipso facto
 
131.
                        
The Company agrees to require any person who serves as an officer of the Company to agree that, in addition to any other duties such officer may owe to the Company or the Members under applicable law, such officer shall owe a fiduciary duty to the Company and to the Members as a whole and, in discharging such fiduciary duties, he will act in good faith, in a manner that he believes to be in the best interests of the Company and the Members as a whole, in a manner consistent with the standards of care required by the courts of the Ireland and the state of Delaware, in the United States of America.
 
132.
                        
Except as otherwise provided by these Articles, the Directors shall meet together for the despatch of business, convening, adjourning and otherwise regulating their meetings and procedures as they think fit.  Questions arising at any meeting shall be decided by a majority of votes of the Directors present at a meeting at which there is a quorum. Each Director shall have one vote. In case of an equality of votes, the Chairman shall have a second or casting vote.
 
133.
                        
Regular meetings of the Board may be held at such times and places as may be provided for in resolutions adopted by the Board. No additional notice of a regularly scheduled meeting of the Board shall be required.
 
134.
                        
A Director may, and the Secretary on the requisition of a Director shall, at any time summon a meeting of the Directors by at least two days' notice in writing to every Director which notice shall set forth the general nature of the business to be considered unless notice is waived by all the Directors either at, before or after the meeting is held and provided further if notice is given in person, by telephone, cable, telex, telecopy or email the same shall be deemed to have been given on the day it is delivered to the Directors or transmitting organisation as the case may be.  The accidental omission to give notice of a meeting of the Directors to, or the non-receipt of notice of a meeting by any person entitled to receive notice shall not invalidate the proceedings of that meeting.
 
135.
                        
The quorum necessary for the transaction of the business of the Board may be fixed by the Board and unless so fixed shall be a majority of the Directors in office.  In no event shall the Board fix a quorum that is less than one-third (1/3) of the total number of Directors or that is less than two Directors.
 
136.
                        
The continuing Directors may act notwithstanding any vacancy in their body, but if and so long as their number is reduced below the number fixed by or pursuant to these Articles as the necessary quorum of Directors the continuing Directors or Director may act for the purpose of
increasing the number of Directors to that number, or of summoning a general meeting of the Company, but for no other purpose.
137.
                        
The Directors may elect a Chairman of their Board and determine the period for which he is to hold office; but if no such Chairman is elected, or if at any meeting the Chairman is not present within five (5) minutes after the time appointed for holding the same, the Directors present may choose one of their number to be a Chairman of the meeting.
 
138.
                        
All acts done by any meeting of the Directors or of a committee of Directors shall, notwithstanding that it be afterwards discovered that there was some defect in the appointment of any Director, or that they or any of them were disqualified, be as valid as if every such person had been duly appointed and qualified to be a Director.
 
139.
                        
Members of the Board or of any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of the Board or of such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other and participation in a meeting pursuant to this provision shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.  Unless otherwise determined by the Directors the meeting shall be deemed to be held at the place where the Chairman is at the start of the meeting.
 
140.
                        
A resolution in writing (in one or more counterparts), signed by all the Directors for the time being or all the members of a committee of Directors shall be as valid and effectual as if it had been passed at a meeting of the Directors or committee as the case may be duly convened and held.
 
141.
                        
The office of a Director shall be vacated:
 
(a)
                                 
if he gives notice in writing to the Company that he resigns the office of Director;
 
(b)
                                
if he absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the Board without special leave of absence from the Directors, and they pass a resolution that he has by reason of such absence vacated office;
 
(c)
                                 
if he dies, becomes bankrupt or makes any arrangement or composition with his creditors generally;
 
(d)
                                
if he is found a lunatic or becomes of unsound mind; or
 
(e)
                                 
on his being prohibited, restricted or disqualified by any applicable law, or the relevant code, rules and regulations applicable to the listing of the Shares on the Exchange, from being a Director.
 
142.
                        
The Company may by Ordinary Resolution appoint any person to be a Director and may by Ordinary Resolution, of which extended notice has been given in accordance with section 142 of the 1963 Act, remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office notwithstanding anything in these Articles or in any agreement between the Company and such Director. Such removal shall be without prejudice to any claim such Director may have for damages for breach of any contract of service between him and the Company.
 
143.
                        
The Directors shall have power at any time and from time to time to appoint any person to be a Director, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the existing Directors, provided
that the total amount of Directors shall not at any time exceed the number fixed in accordance with these Articles and provided further, that any such Director so appointed shall be approved or removed by a resolution of the Members at the next annual general meeting.
144.
                        
Directors shall hold office for such term as the Members may determine by Ordinary Resolution or, in the absence of such determination, until the next annual general meeting and until their successors are elected and qualified, or until their office is otherwise earlier vacated.
 
145.
                        
(1)
           
At every annual general meeting of the Company, all of the Directors shall retire from office unless re-elected by Ordinary Resolution at the annual general meeting. A Director retiring at a meeting shall retain office until the close or adjournment of the meeting.
 
(2)
                                 
Every Director shall be eligible to stand for re-election at an annual general meeting.
 
(3)
                                 
If a Director offers himself for re-election, he shall be deemed to have been re-elected, unless at such meeting the Ordinary Resolution for the re-election of such Director has been defeated.
 
146.
                        
A Director who is present at a meeting of the Board at which action on any Company matter is taken shall be presumed to have assented to the action taken unless his dissent shall be entered in the Minutes of the meeting or unless he shall file his written dissent from such action with the person acting as the Secretary of the meeting before the adjournment thereof or shall forward such dissent by registered mail to such person immediately after the adjournment of the meeting.  Such right to dissent shall not apply to a Director who voted in favour of such action.
 
147.
                        
The Company may, if the Board so determines, have a Seal which shall only be used by the authority of the Board or of a committee of the Board authorized by the Board in that behalf and every instrument to which the Seal has been affixed shall be signed by any person who shall be either a Director or the Secretary or Assistant Secretary or some other person authorised by the Board, either generally or specifically, for the purpose.
 
148.
                        
The Company may have for use in any place or places outside Ireland, a duplicate Seal or Seals each of which shall be a duplicate of the Seal of the Company except, in the case of a Seal for use in sealing documents creating or evidencing securities issued by the Company, for the addition on its face of the word "Securities" and if the Board so determines, with the addition on its face of the name of every place where it is to be used.
 
149.
                        
A Director, Secretary, Assistant Secretary or other officer or representative or attorney may without further authority of the Directors affix the Seal of the Company over his signature alone to any document of the Company required to be authenticated by him under Seal or to be filed with the Companies Registration Office in Ireland or elsewhere wheresoever.
 
150.
                        
The Company in general meeting may declare dividends, but no dividends shall exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
151.
                        
Subject to the Companies Acts, the Board may from time to time declare dividends (including interim dividends) and distributions on Shares of the Company outstanding and authorise payment of the same out of the funds of the Company lawfully available therefor.
 
152.
                        
The Board may, before declaring any dividends or distributions, set aside such sums as they think proper as a reserve or reserves which shall at the discretion of the Directors, be applicable for any purpose of the Company and pending such application may, at the like discretion, be employed in the business of the Company. The Directors may also, without placing the same to reserve, carry forward any profits which they may think it prudent not to divide.
 
153.
                        
No dividend, interim dividend or distribution shall be paid otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of Part IV of the 1983 Act.
 
154.
                        
Subject to the rights of persons, if any, entitled to Shares with special rights as to dividends or distributions, if dividends or distributions are to be declared on a class of Shares they shall be declared and paid according to the amounts paid or credited as paid on the Shares of such class outstanding on the record date for such dividend or distribution as determined in accordance with these Articles.
 
155.
                        
The Directors may deduct from any dividend payable to any Member all sums of money (if any) immediately payable by him to the Company in relation to the Shares of the Company.
 
156.
                        
The Board or any general meeting declaring a dividend (upon the recommendation of the Board), may direct that any dividend or distribution be paid wholly or partly by the distribution of specific assets and in particular of paid up Shares, debentures, or debenture stock of any other company or in any one or more of such ways and where any difficulty arises in regard to such distribution, the Board may settle the same as they think expedient and in particular may issue fractional certificates and fix the value for distribution of such specific assets or any part thereof and may determine that cash payments shall be made to any Members upon the footing of the value so fixed in order to adjust the rights of all Members and may vest any such specific assets in trustees as may seem expedient to the Board.
 
157.
                        
Any dividend, distribution, interest or other monies payable in cash in respect of Shares may be paid by cheque or warrant sent through the post, or sent by any electronic or other means of payment, directed to the registered address of the holder or, in the case of joint holders, to the holder who is first named on the Register of Members or to such person and to such address as such holder or joint holders may in writing direct.  Every such cheque or warrant, electronic or other payment shall be made payable to the order of the person to whom it is sent and payment of the cheque or warrant shall be a good discharge to the Company.  Any one of two or more joint holders may give effectual receipts for any dividends, bonuses, or other monies payable in respect of the Share held by them as joint holders. Any such dividend or other distribution may also be paid by any other method (including payment in a currency other than US$, electronic funds transfer, direct debit, bank transfer or by means of a relevant system) which the Directors consider appropriate and any Member who elects for such method of payment shall be deemed to have accepted all of the risks inherent therein. The debiting of the Company's account in respect of the relevant amount shall be evidence of good discharge of the Company's obligations in respect of any payment made by any such methods.
 
158.
                        
No dividend or distribution shall bear interest against the Company.
 
159.
                        
If the Directors so resolve, any dividend which has remained unclaimed for twelve years from the date of its declaration shall be forfeited and cease to remain owing by the Company. The payment by the Directors of any unclaimed dividend or other moneys payable in respect of a Share into a separate account shall not constitute the Company a trustee in respect thereof.
160.
                        
The Company may, upon the recommendation of the Board, by Ordinary Resolution authorise the Board to capitalise any sum standing to the credit of any of the Company's reserve accounts (including Share premium account and capital redemption reserve fund) or any sum standing to the credit of profit and loss account or otherwise available for distribution and to appropriate such sum to Members in the proportions in which such sum would have been divisible amongst them had the same been a distribution of profits by way of dividend and to apply such sum on their behalf in paying up in full unissued Shares for allotment and distribution credited as fully paid up to and amongst them in the proportion aforesaid.  In such event the Board shall do all acts and things required to give effect to such capitalisation, with full power to the Board to make such provisions as they think fit for the case of Shares becoming distributable in fractions (including provisions whereby the benefit of fractional entitlements accrue to the Company rather than to the Members concerned).  The Board may authorise any person to enter on behalf of all of the Members interested into an agreement with the Company providing for such capitalisation and matters incidental thereto and any agreement made under such authority shall be effective and binding on all concerned.
 
161.
                        
The Directors shall cause to be kept proper books of account, whether in the form of documents, electronic form or otherwise, that:
 
(a)
                                 
correctly record and explain the transactions of the Company;
 
(b)
                                
will at any time enable the financial position of the Company to be determined with reasonable accuracy;
 
(c)
                                 
will enable the Directors to ensure that any balance sheet, profit and loss account or income and expenditure account of the Company complies with the requirements of the Companies Acts;
 
(d)
                                
will record all sums of money received and expended by the Company and the matters in respect of which the receipt or expenditure takes place, all sales and purchases of goods by the Company and the assets and liabilities of the Company; and
 
(e)
                                 
will enable the accounts of the Company to be readily and properly audited.
 
162.
                        
Books of account shall be kept on a continuous and consistent basis and entries therein shall be made in a timely manner and be consistent from year to year. The Company may send by post, electronic mail or any other means of electronic communication a summary financial statement to its Members or persons nominated by any Member. The Company may meet, but shall be under no obligation to meet, any request from any of its Members to be sent additional copies of its full report and accounts or summary financial statement or other communications with its Members.
 
163.
                        
The books of account shall be kept at the registered office of the Company or, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, at such other place as the Directors think fit and shall be open at all reasonable times to the inspection of the Directors.
 
164.
                        
Proper books shall not be deemed to be kept, if there are not kept such books of account as are necessary to give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs and to explain its transactions.
165.
                        
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Board may from time to time cause to be prepared and to be laid before the Company in general meeting profit and loss accounts, balance sheets, group accounts (if any) and such other reports and accounts as may be required by law.
 
166.
                        
A copy of every balance sheet (including every document required by law to be annexed thereto) which is to be laid before the annual general meeting of the Company together with a copy of the Directors' report and Auditors' report shall be sent by post, electronic mail or any other means of communication (electronic or otherwise), not less than twenty-one clear days before the date of the annual general meeting, to every person entitled under the provisions of the Companies Acts to receive them; provided that in the case of those documents sent by electronic mail or any other means of electronic communication, such documents shall be sent with the consent of the recipient, to the address of the recipient notified to the Company by the recipient for such purposes.
 
167.
                        
Auditors shall be appointed and their duties regulated in accordance with the Companies Acts, the relevant code, rules and regulations applicable to the listing of the Shares on the Exchange.
 
168.
                        
Subject always to the provisions of the Companies Acts, in the event that no such code, rules and regulations referred to in the above Article 167 apply, the appointment of and provisions relating to Auditors shall be in accordance with the following provisions:
 
(1)
                                 
The Board may appoint the Auditor of the Company, who shall hold office until removed from office by the Company, and the Board may fix his or their remuneration.
 
(2)
                                 
The Board may appoint an Auditor who shall hold office until removed from office by a resolution of the Directors, and may fix his or their remuneration.
 
(3)
                                 
Every Auditor shall have a right of access at all times to the books and accounts and vouchers of the Company and shall be entitled to require from the Board and officers of the Company such information and explanation as may be necessary for the performance of the duties of the Auditor.
 
(4)
                                 
Auditors shall, if so required by the Directors, make a report on the accounts of the Company during their tenure of office at the next extraordinary general meeting following their appointment and at any other time during their term of office, upon request of the Directors or any general meeting of the Members.
 
169.
                        
Notices shall be in writing (whether in electronic form or otherwise) and shall be given by the Company in accordance with applicable law, the relevant code, rules and regulations applicable to the listing of the Shares on the Exchange and these Articles.
 
170.
                        
Except to the extent inconsistent with such company law, code, rules and regulations referred to in the above Article 169, notice shall be given in accordance with the following provisions:
 
(a)
                                 
notices to any Member shall be given either personally or by sending it by post, cable, telex, fax or e-mail to him or to his address as shown in the Register of Members (where the notice is given by e-mail by sending it to the e-mail address provided by such Member subject to each Members' individual consent to electronic communications being sent to them by the
Company), or by publication of an electronic record of it on a website and notification of such publication by post, cable, telex, fax or email as permitted by these Articles.
(b)
                                
where a notice is sent by post, service of the notice shall be deemed to be effected by properly addressing, pre-paying and posting a letter containing the notice, and shall be deemed to have been received on the fifth (5th) day (not including Saturdays or Sundays or public holidays) following the day on which the notice was posted.  Where a notice is sent by cable, telex or fax, service of the notice shall be deemed to be effected by properly addressing and sending such notice and shall be deemed to have been received on the same day that it was transmitted.  Where a notice is given by e-mail service shall be deemed to be effected by transmitting the e-mail to the e-mail address provided by the intended recipient and shall be deemed to have been received on the same day that it was sent, and it shall not be necessary for the receipt of the e-mail to be acknowledged by the recipient. Where a notice was published as an electronic record on a website, at the time that the notification of such publication shall be deemed to have been delivered to such Member, and in proving such service or delivery, it shall be sufficient to prove that the notice or document was properly published on a website in accordance with and provisions of these Articles.
 
(c)
                                 
for the purposes of these Articles and the Companies Acts, any document or notice shall be deemed to have been sent to a Member if a notice is given, served, sent or delivered to the Member and the notice specifies the website or hotlink or other electronic link at or through which the member may obtain a copy of the relevant document or notice.
 
(d)
                                
a notice may be given by the Company to the person or persons which the Company has been advised are entitled to a Share or Shares in consequence of the death or bankruptcy of a Member in the same manner as other notices which are required to be given under these Articles and shall be addressed to them by name, or by the title of representatives of the deceased, or trustee of the bankrupt, or by any like description at the address supplied for that purpose by the persons claiming to be so entitled, or at the option of the Company by giving the notice in any manner in which the same might have been given if the death or bankruptcy had not occurred.
 
171.
                        
Any requirement in these Articles for the consent of a Member in regard to the receipt of such Member of electronic mail or other means of electronic communications approved by the Board, including the receipt of the Company's audited accounts and the Directors' and Auditor's reports thereon shall be deemed to have been satisfied where the Company has written to the Member informing him of its intention to use electronic communication for such purposes and the Member has not within four weeks of the issue of such notice, served an objection in writing on the Company to such proposal. Where a Member has given, or is deemed to have given, his consent to the receipt of such Member of electronic mail or other means of electronic communications approved by the Board, he may revoke such consent at any time by requesting the Company to communicate with him in documented form; provided however, that such revocation shall not take effect until five days after written notice of the revocation is received by the Company.
 
172.
                        
The signature (whether electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature or otherwise) to any notice to be given by the Company may be written (in electronic form or otherwise) or printed.
173.
                        
If the Company shall be wound up the liquidator may, subject to any sanction required by applicable law, divide amongst the Members in kind the whole or any part of the assets of the Company (whether they shall consist of property of the same kind or not) and may for that purpose value any assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as between the Members or different classes of Members.  The liquidator may, with the like sanction, vest the whole or any part of such assets in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of the Members as the liquidator, with the like sanction, shall think fit, but so that no Member shall be compelled to accept any asset upon which there is a liability.
 
174.
                        
If the Company shall be wound up, and the assets available for distribution amongst the Members shall be insufficient to repay the whole of the share capital, such assets shall be distributed so that, as nearly as may be, the losses shall be borne by the Members in proportion to the nominal value of the Shares held by them.  If in a winding up the assets available for distribution amongst the Members shall be more than sufficient to repay the whole of the share capital at the commencement of the winding up, the surplus shall be distributed amongst the Members in proportion to the nominal value of the Shares held by them at the commencement of the winding up.  This Article is without prejudice to the rights of the holders of Shares issued upon special terms and conditions.
 
175.
                        
(1)
                               
In case of a sale by the liquidator under section 260 of the 1963 Act, the liquidator may by the contract of sale agree so as to bind all the Members for the allotment to the Members directly of the proceeds of sale in proportion to their respective interests in the Company and may further by the contract limit a time at the expiration of which obligations or Shares not accepted or required to be sold shall be deemed to have been irrevocably refused and be at the disposal of the Company, but so that nothing herein contained shall be taken to diminish, prejudice or affect the rights of dissenting Members conferred by the said section.
 
(2)
                             
The power of sale of the liquidator shall include a power to sell wholly or partially for debentures, debenture stock, or other obligations of another company, either then already constituted or about to be constituted for the purpose of carrying out the sale.
 
176.
                        
Subject to the provisions of and so far as may be admitted by the Companies Acts, every Director and the Secretary of the Company shall be entitled to be indemnified by the Company against all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities incurred by him in the execution and discharge of his duties or in relation thereto including any liability incurred by him in defending any proceedings, civil or criminal, which relate to anything done or omitted or alleged to have been done or omitted by him as a Director, Secretary or employee of the Company and in which judgement is given in his favour (or the proceedings are otherwise disposed of without any finding or admission of any material breach of duty on his part) or in which he is acquitted or in connection with any application under any statute for relief from liability in respect of any such act or omission in which relief is granted to him by the Court.
 
177.
                        
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Company shall indemnify any current or former officer of the Company, or any person who is serving or has served at the request of the Company as an officer and any trustee acting in relation to any of the affairs of the Company and their respective heirs, executors, administrators and personal representatives (other than any Director and the Secretary of the Company) (each individually, a ""), against any expenses, including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or
Covered Person
investigative (other than a proceeding by, or in the name or on behalf of, the Company), to which he was, is, or is threatened to be made, a party or in which he is otherwise involved, (a "") by reason of the fact that he is or was a Covered Person; provided, however, that this provision shall not indemnify any Covered Person against any liability arising out of (a) any fraud or dishonesty in the performance of such Covered Person's duty to the Company, or (b) such Covered Person's conscious, intentional or wilful breach of his obligation to act honestly, lawfully and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, this section shall not extend to any matter which would render it void pursuant to the Companies Acts or to any person holding the office of auditor in relation to the Company.
proceeding
178.
                        
In the case of any threatened, pending or completed proceeding by, or in the name or on behalf of, the Company, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Company shall indemnify each Covered Person against expenses, including attorneys' fees, but excluding judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement, actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense or settlement thereof, except that no indemnification for expenses shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such Covered Person shall have been finally adjudged to be liable for fraud or dishonesty in the performance of his duty to the Company, or for conscious, intentional or wilful breach of his obligation to act honestly, lawfully and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company, unless and only to the extent that the Court or the court in which such proceeding was brought shall determine upon application that despite the adjudication of liability, but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such Covered Person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses as the court shall deem proper. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, this section shall not extend to any matter that would render it void pursuant to the Companies Acts or to any person holding the office of auditor in relation to the Company.
 
179.
                        
To the fullest extent permitted by law, expenses, including attorneys' fees, incurred by a Covered Person in defending any proceeding for which indemnification is permitted pursuant to Articles 177 and 178 shall be paid by the Company in advance of the final disposition of such proceeding upon receipt by the Board of an undertaking by or on behalf of such Covered Person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company pursuant to these Articles.
 
180.
                        
Any indemnification under Articles 177 to and including 179 (unless ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction) shall be made by the Company only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the Covered Person is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Articles 177 or 178, as the case may be. Such determination shall be made, with respect to a Covered Person who is a Director or officer of the Company at the time of such determination, (a) by a majority vote of the Directors who are not parties to such proceeding, even though less than a quorum; (b) by a committee of such Directors designated by a majority vote of such Directors, even though less than a quorum; (c) if there are no such Directors, or if such Directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion; or (d) by the Members by Ordinary Resolution. Such determination shall be made, with respect to any other Covered Person, by any person or persons having the authority to act on the matter on behalf of the Company. To the extent, however, that any Covered Person has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any proceeding, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such Covered Person shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith, without the necessity of authorization in the specific case.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 177 to and including 179, the Company shall be required to indemnify or advance expenses to a Covered Person in connection a proceeding commenced by such Covered Person only if the commencement of such proceeding by such person was authorized by the Board.
181.
                        
It being the policy of the Company that indemnification of the persons specified in Articles 177 and 178 shall be made to the fullest extent permitted by law, the indemnification and advancement of expenses provided for by Articles 177 to and including 179 shall not be deemed exclusive (a) of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under these Articles, any agreement, any insurance purchased by the Company, vote of Members or disinterested Directors, or pursuant to the direction (however embodied) of any court of competent jurisdiction, or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, or (b) of the power of the Company to indemnify any person who is or was an employee or agent of the Company or of another corporation, joint venture, trust or other enterprise which he is serving or has served at the request of the Company, to the same extent and in the same situations and subject to the same determinations as are hereinabove set forth with respect to a Covered Person.
 
182.
                        
The Board may, notwithstanding any interest of the Covered Persons in such action, authorize the Company to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any Covered Person, against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of these Articles.  As used in Articles 176 to and including 182, references to the "Company" include all constituent corporations in an amalgamation, consolidation or merger or similar arrangement in which the Company or a predecessor to the Company by amalgamation, consolidation or merger or similar arrangement was involved.
 
183.
                        
The financial year of the Company shall be as prescribed by the Board from time to time.
 
184.
                        
(1)
           
The Board may authorise and direct the Company to sell, lease or exchange all or substantially all of its property and assets, including the Company's goodwill and its corporate franchises, upon such terms and conditions and for such consideration, which may consist in whole or in part of money or other property, including shares of stock in, and/or other securities of, any other corporation or corporations, as the Board in its discretion thinks fit, provided that the Members shall have approved such sale, lease or exchange by Ordinary Resolution, in addition to any other resolution or sanction required by applicable law.
 
(2)
                                 
Notwithstanding such resolution or consent to a proposed sale, lease or exchange of the Company's property and assets by the Members, the Board may abandon such proposed sale, lease or exchange without further action by the Members, subject to the rights, if any, of third parties under any contract relating thereto.
 
(3)
                                 
For purposes of this Article 184, the property and assets of the Company include the property and assets of any subsidiary of the Company and "subsidiary" means any entity wholly-owned and controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Company and includes, without limitation, corporations, partnerships, limited partnerships, limited liability partnerships, limited liability companies, and/or statutory trusts.
 
(4)
                                 
Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this Article 184 no resolution by the Members shall be required for a sale, lease or exchange of property and assets of the Company to a subsidiary.
185.
                        
For as long as Shares are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act and the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Company hereby submits to the jurisdiction of the courts of the state of Delaware, in the United States of America and to the jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in the United States of America and the appellate courts having jurisdiction thereover (each, a ""), for the purposes of any action, suit or proceeding brought by or on behalf of any Member or Beneficial Owner with respect to his rights as a Member or Beneficial Owner, or in relation to claims brought derivatively by a Member or Beneficial Owner in the name, or on behalf of, the Company.  The Company waives any right to challenge personal jurisdiction when sued in these courts.  The Company further agrees that if sued in these jurisdictions, it will agree to the application of that court's rules of procedure and will not argue, under choice of law principles, that procedural rights granted by the laws of Ireland should be applied in these fora.
Delaware-Based Court
 
186.
                        
For as long as Shares are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act and the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Company shall appoint and maintain an authorised agent in the state of Delaware, in the United States of America, to receive for and on its behalf service of any and all legal process, summons, notices and documents that may be served in any action, suit or proceeding brought against the Company in the state of Delaware.
 
187.
                        
For as long as Shares are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act and the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Company shall:
 
(a)
                                 
maintain unencumbered assets in the United States of America, which assets may include equity or debt investments in U.S. companies, with a book value in excess of fifty million U.S. dollars ($50,000,000), and will deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware an opinion of an attorney licensed in the United States of America that judgments rendered against the Company may be satisfied by using these assets;
 
(b)
                                
post a bond or similar security with a DelawareBased court in an amount of at least fifty million U.S. dollars ($50,000,000); or
 
(c)
                                 
purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of its Directors and officers of the Company, against any liability asserted against them and incurred by them in any such capacity, in an amount of at least fifty million U.S. dollars ($50,000,000),
 
and in the event that any action, suit or proceeding of the type described in Article 185 is brought against the Company in any Delaware-Based Court, the Company will provide a notice to such court specifying with which of the three foregoing provisions of this Article 187 the Company has complied.
 
188.
                        
For as long as Shares are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act and the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, in relation to any action, suit or proceeding against the Company brought derivatively by a Member or Beneficial Owner in the name, or on behalf of, the Company in any Delaware-Based Court, the Company hereby agrees that the law of the forum in which such action, suit or proceeding is brought, not the law of Ireland, will govern the sufficiency of the pleadings and such Member's or Beneficial Owner's standing to bring such action, suit or proceeding.

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
The SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of July 3, 2010 (this ""), by and among SEAGATE HDD CAYMAN, an exempted limited liability company organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands, as issuer (the ""), SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, an exempted limited liability company organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands, as original guarantor (""), SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC, a public limited company incorporated under the laws of Ireland, as successor guarantor, ("") and WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Old Parent
New Parent
Trustee
 
WHEREAS, the Company is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Old Parent, and Old Parent is a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of New Parent;
 
WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an Indenture, dated as of May 13, 2010 (the ""), providing for the creation and issuance by the Company of 6.875% Senior Notes due 2020 (the "") and the guarantee thereof by Old Parent (the "");
Indenture
Notes
Parent Guarantee
 
WHEREAS, the Reorganization anticipated in the Indenture has been consummated such that New Parent has become the publically traded parent of the Seagate group of companies including the Company and Old Parent;
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 10.05(b) of the Indenture, the Company, Old Parent, New Parent and the Trustee have agreed to execute this Supplemental Indenture to provide for the assumption by New Parent of all of the obligations of Old Parent under the Notes, the Parent Guarantee and the Indenture and the release of Old Parent from all obligations and covenants thereunder;
 
WHEREAS, Sections 9.01(ii) and 9.01(xiii) of the Indenture provide that the parties hereto may execute this Supplemental Indenture without the consent of the Holders of the Notes;
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Sections 9.03, 11.04 and 11.05 of the Indenture, the Trustee has received an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel of the Company relating this Supplemental Indenture;
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 10.05(b) of the Indenture, the Trustee has received an Opinion of Counsel of New Parent that this Supplemental Indenture, when executed, will be valid and binding upon the New Parent; and
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 9.03 of the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company, Old Parent, New Parent and the Trustee, acting for itself and the Holders of the Notes, agree as follows:
 
1.
                                      
Defined Terms.  In this Supplemental Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires:
 
1.1
                                
Terms defined in the Indenture have the same meaning when used in this Supplemental Indenture unless otherwise defined in this Supplemental Indenture; and
 
1.2
                                
All references to "the Supplemental Indenture" or "this Supplemental Indenture" are to this Supplemental Indenture as modified, supplemented or amended from time to time.
 
2.
                                      
Amendments to the Indenture.
 
2.1
                                
Section 1.01
. Section 1.01 of the Indenture is hereby amended by inserting the following definition in place of the corresponding definition of such term in the Indenture:
 
"" means Seagate Technology plc, a public limited company incorporated under the laws of Ireland, or any successor obligor to its obligations under the Indenture and the Notes pursuant to Article 5.
Parent
 
2.2
                                
In accordance with Section 10.05(b) of the Indenture, New Parent expressly assumes all of the obligations of Old Parent under the Notes, the Parent Guarantee and the Indenture.
 
2.3
                                
In accordance with Section 10.05(b) of the Indenture, New Parent succeeds to, and is substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, Old Parent under the Indenture with the same effect as if New Parent had been named therein as the Parent.
 
2.4
                                
In accordance with 10.05(b) of the Indenture, Old Parent is discharged and released from all obligations and covenants under the Indenture, the Parent Guarantee and the Notes.
 
3.
                                      
Miscellaneous.
 
3.1
                                
Except as expressly amended hereby, the Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed and all terms, conditions and provisions thereof shall remain in full force and effect.  This Supplemental Indenture shall be construed as supplemental to the Indenture, and all the terms and conditions of this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the terms and conditions of the Indenture.  Every holder of Notes heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered shall be bound hereby.  This Supplemental Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions.
 
3.2
                                
The parties may sign any number of copies of the Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. The exchange of copies of this Supplemental Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or PDF transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of the Supplemental Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original Supplemental Indenture for all
purposes. Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
 
3.3
                                
The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
 
3.4
                                
In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Supplemental Indenture or of the Notes, but this Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein or therein.
 
3.5
                                
THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
3.6
                                
No amendment to or termination of this Supplemental Indenture and no modification of  Old Parent's or New Parent's respective obligations under the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, shall be effective absent the written consent of the Company, New Parent, the Trustee and Old Parent.
 
3.7
                                
The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
This Deed Poll relating to the Seagate Technology share incentive plans listed in Schedule 1 of this deed poll (the " ") and the Maxtor Corporation share incentive plans listed in Schedule 2 of this deed poll (the " ") is made on July 2, 2010 by , a company established in Ireland with registered number 480010 having its registered office at Arthur Cox Building, Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin 2 ("").
Share
Plans
Maxtor
Plans
SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
Seagate Ireland
 
WHEREAS
on May 14, 2010, Seagate Technology (""), a limited company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, received approval from the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands for a scheme of arrangement pursuant to section 86 of the Companies Law (2009 Revision) of the Cayman Islands (the "") that effected a transaction that resulted in the common shareholders of Seagate Cayman becoming ordinary shareholders of Seagate Ireland and Seagate Cayman becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of Seagate Ireland (the ""), such Transaction becoming effective as of July 3, 2010 upon the filing of the court order sanctioning the Scheme of Arrangement with the Cayman Registrar of Companies;
Seagate Cayman
Scheme of Arrangement
Transaction
 
WHEREAS
in connection with and contingent upon the consummation of the Transaction, Seagate Ireland proposes to assume the Share Plans and any outstanding options and/ or awards granted thereunder and Seagate Ireland proposes to assume the Maxtor Plans and any outstanding options and/ or awards granted thereunder, subject to, and in accordance with, the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Seagate Cayman, MD Merger Corporation and Maxtor Corporation ("") dated 20 December 2005 (the "") insofar as it reflected the rights and obligations of Seagate Cayman in respect of the Maxtor Plans in effect immediately prior to the Transaction becoming effective; (the "");
Maxtor
Maxtor Merger Agreement
Assumption
 
WHEREAS
in connection with and contingent upon the consummation of the Transaction and the Assumption, Seagate Ireland wishes to adopt the Share Plans amended as necessary or appropriate to give effect to the Transaction and the Assumption, such amendments principally providing (1) for the appropriate substitution of Seagate Ireland for Seagate Cayman in such Share Plans; and (2) that ordinary shares of Seagate Ireland will be issued, held available or used, as appropriate, to measure benefits under such Share Plans, in lieu of the common shares of Seagate Cayman; and
 
WHEREAS
in connection with and contingent upon the consummation of the Transaction and the Assumption, Seagate Ireland wishes to adopt the Maxtor Plans amended as necessary or appropriate to give effect to the Transaction and the Assumption, such amendments principally providing (1) for the appropriate substitution of Seagate Ireland for Maxtor in such Maxtor Plans; and (2) that ordinary shares of Seagate Ireland will be issued, held available or used, as appropriate, to measure benefits under such Maxtor Plans, on the basis of and in accordance with the ratios specified in the Maxtor Merger Agreement, in lieu of the common shares of Seagate Cayman which were previously to be issued, held available or used; and
 
WHEREAS
as a result of the Transaction becoming effective, Seagate Ireland desires to assume sponsorship of the Share Plans and the Maxtor Plans, the terms of which are substantially the same as those contained in Schedule 3.
 
NOW THIS DEED POLL WITNESSES AS FOLLOWS:
 
Seagate Ireland hereby declares, undertakes and agrees for the benefit of each participant in the Share Plans and the Maxtor Plans that, with effect from July 3, 2010, it shall:
 
1.
                                    
undertake and discharge all of the rights and obligations of Seagate Cayman under the Share Plans;
 
2.
                                    
undertake and discharge all of the rights and obligations of Seagate Cayman under the Maxtor Plans subject to, and in accordance with, the Maxtor Merger Agreement;
 
3.
                                    
exercise all of the powers of Seagate Cayman as provided for in the Share Plans and, in respect of the Maxtor Plans, in the Maxtor Merger Agreement and Maxtor Plans;
 
4.
                                    
be bound by the terms of the Share Plans and the Maxtor Plans (as previously assumed and applied by Seagate Cayman pursuant the Maxtor Merger Agreement) so that Seagate Ireland will be bound by the requirements, without limitation, as in effect immediately prior to the effective date of this Deed Poll, save for such changes as are necessary to effectuate and reflect the assumption by Seagate Ireland of the Share Plans and the Maxtor Plans (pursuant to the terms of the Maxtor Merger Agreement) and the rights and obligations of Seagate Cayman thereunder;
 
5.
                                    
Seagate Ireland hereby assumes and adopts, for the time being, the form of
 
5.1
                           
Enrollment/ Withdrawal and Change Form in respect of the ESPP (as defined in Schedule 1);
 
5.2
                           
Share Award Agreements (as defined in the SCP (as defined in Schedule 1));
 
5.3
                           
Option Agreements (as defined in the SOP) in respect of the SOP (as defined in Schedule 1)
 
(collectively, the "")
Share Plan Materials
 
adopted by Seagate Cayman in connection with participation in the ESPP and for the issuance of Share Awards (as defined in the SCP) under the SCP and for the issuance of Options (as defined in the SOP) under the SOP, respectively, on and after  July 3, 2010, with such amendments and modifications thereto as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate and reflect the assumption by Seagate Ireland of the Share Plans and the form of the Share Plan Materials and the rights and obligations of Seagate Cayman thereunder; and
 
This Deed Poll may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which when executed and delivered shall be an original, but all the counterparts together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
This Deed Poll shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of Ireland.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
this Deed Poll has been executed by Seagate Ireland on the date first above written.
 
 
 
1.
                                    
Seagate Technology public limited company Employee Stock Purchase Plan (as amended and restated), including any sub-plans thereto (the "");
ESPP
 
2.
                                    
Seagate Technology public limited company 2004 Share Compensation Plan, including any sub-plans thereto (the "");
SCP
 
3.
                                    
Seagate Technology public limited company 2001 Share Option Plan (as amended and restated), including any sub-plans thereto (the "").
SOP
 
1.
                                    
Maxtor Corporation 2005 Performance Incentive Plan, including any sub-plans thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Maxtor Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 4, 2005;
 
2.
                                    
Maxtor Corporation Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Option Plan, including any sub-plans thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.70 to Maxtor Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 28, 2003;
 
3.
                                    
Quantum Corporation Supplemental Stock Option Plan, including any sub-plans thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Seagate Technology's Form S-8 filed on May 26, 2006.
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
1.1
          
Eligible Share Award Recipients
.  The persons eligible to receive Share Awards are the Employees, Directors and Consultants of the Company and its Affiliates.
 
1.2
          
Available Share Awards
.  The purpose of the Plan is to provide a means by which eligible recipients of Share Awards may be given an opportunity to benefit from increases in value of the Ordinary Shares through the granting of Share Awards including, but not limited to: (i) Incentive Stock Options, (ii) Nonstatutory Share Options, (iii) Restricted Share Bonuses, (iv) Restricted Share Purchase Rights, (v) Share Appreciation Rights, (vi) Phantom Share Units, (vii) Restricted Share Units, (viii) Performance Share Bonuses, and (ix) Performance Share Units.
 
1.3
          
General Purpose
.  The Company, by means of this new Plan, which is intended to replace the Company's 2001 Share Option Plan ("Predecessor Plan"), seeks to provide incentives for the group of persons eligible to receive Share Awards to align their long-term interests with those of the Company's shareholders and to perform in a manner individually and collectively that enhances the success of the Company and its Affiliates.  Share Awards granted under the Predecessor Plan shall continue to be governed by the terms of the Predecessor Plan in effect on the date of grant of such award.
 
2.1
          
"Affiliate" means generally with respect to the Company, any entity directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controlling or controlled by (but not under common control with) the Company.  Solely with respect to the granting of any Incentive Stock Options, Affiliate means any parent corporation or subsidiary corporation of the Company, whether now or hereafter existing, as those terms are defined in Sections 424(e) and (f), respectively, of the Code.
 
2.2
          
"Beneficial Owner" means the definition given in Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
 
2004 Plan (June 2010)
 
 
2.3
          
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
2.4
          
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
 
(i)
           
The sale, exchange, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to a person or group of related persons, as such terms are defined or described in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act (other than to Silver Lake Partners and its affiliates, Texas Pacific Group and its affiliates, or any group controlled by one or more of the foregoing), that will continue the business of the Company in the future;
 
(ii)
          
A merger or consolidation involving the Company in which the voting securities of the Company owned by the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to such merger or consolidation do not represent, after conversion if applicable, more than fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power of the surviving controlling entity outstanding, immediately after such merger or consolidation; provided that any person who (1) was a beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of the voting securities of the Company immediately prior to such merger or consolidation, and (2) is a beneficial owner of more than 20% of the securities of the Company immediately after such merger or consolidation, shall be excluded from the list of "shareholders of the Company immediately prior to such merger or consolidation" for purposes of the preceding calculation;
 
(iii)
         
Any person or group of related persons, as such terms are defined or described in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the total voting power of the voting securities of the Company (including by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise);
 
(iv)
         
During any period of two (2) consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board (together with any new Directors whose election by such Board or whose nomination for election by the shareholders of the Company was approved by a vote of a majority of the Directors of the Company then still in office, who were either Directors at the beginning of such period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved) cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board then in office; or
 
(v)
          
A dissolution or liquidation of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a restructuring of the Company for the purpose of changing the domicile of the Company (including, but not limited to, any change in the structure of the Company resulting from the process of moving its domicile from the Cayman Islands to Ireland or from and to other jurisdictions), reincorporation of the Company or other similar transaction involving the Company (a "Restructuring Transaction") will not constitute a Change in Control if, immediately after the Restructuring Transaction, the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to such Restructuring Transaction represent, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power of the surviving publicly-traded entity.
 
2.5
          
"Code" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
2.6
          
"Committee" means a committee of one or more members of the Board (or other individuals who are not members of the Board to the extent allowed by law) appointed by the Board in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan.
 
2.7
          
"Company" means Seagate Technology plc, a public company incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Ireland with limited liability under registered number 480010, or any successor thereto.
 
2.8
          
"Consultant" means any person, including an advisor, (i) engaged by the Company or an Affiliate to render consulting or advisory services and who is compensated for such services or (ii) who is a member of the board of directors of an Affiliate.  However, the term "Consultant" shall not include either Directors who are not compensated by the Company for their services as a Director or Directors who are compensated by the Company solely for their services as a Director.
 
2.9
          
"Continuous Service" means that the Participant's service with the Company or an Affiliate, whether as an Employee, Director or Consultant, is not interrupted or terminated.  The Participant's Continuous Service shall not be deemed to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Participant renders service to the Company or an Affiliate as an Employee, Consultant or Director or a change in the entity for which the Participant renders such service, provided that there is no interruption or termination of the Participant's Continuous Service.  For example, a change in status from an Employee of the Company to a Consultant of an Affiliate or a Director will not constitute an interruption of Continuous Service.  The Board or the chief executive officer of the Company, in that party's sole discretion, may determine whether Continuous Service shall be considered interrupted in the case of any leave of absence approved by the Company or an Affiliate, including sick leave, military leave or any other personal leave.
 
2.10
        
"Covered Employee" means the chief executive officer and the four (4) other highest compensated officers of the Company for whom total compensation is required to be reported to shareholders under the Exchange Act, as determined for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
2.11
        
"Director" means a member of the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
2.12
        
"Disability" means the permanent and total disability of a person within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code for all Incentive Stock Options.  For all other Share Awards, "Disability" means physical or mental incapacitation such that for a period of six (6) consecutive months or for an aggregate of nine (9) months in any twenty-four (24) consecutive month period, a person is unable to substantially perform his or her duties.  Any question as to the existence of that person's physical or mental incapacitation as to which the person or person's representative and the Company cannot agree shall be determined in writing by a qualified independent physician mutually acceptable to the person and the Company.  If the person and the Company or an Affiliate cannot agree as to a qualified independent physician, each shall appoint such a physician and those two (2) physicians shall select a third (3
rd
)who shall make such determination in writing.  The determination of Disability made in writing to the Company or an Affiliate and the person shall be final and conclusive for all purposes of the Share Awards.
 
2.13
        
"Eligible Director" means any Director who: (i) is not employed by the Company and (ii) does not receive a financial management fee from the Company and is not employed by any entity that receives such a fee.
 
2.14
        
"Employee" means any person employed by the Company or an Affiliate.  Service as a Director or compensation by the Company or an Affiliate solely for services as a Director shall not be sufficient to constitute "employment" by the Company or an Affiliate.
 
2.15
        
"Exchange Act" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
2.16
        
"Fair Market Value" means, as of any date, the value of the Ordinary Shares determined as follows:
 
(i)
           
If the Ordinary Shares are listed on any established stock exchange (including the New York Stock Exchange) or traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market, the Fair Market Value of a Share shall be the arithmetic mean of the high and low selling prices of such Shares as reported on such date on the Composite Tape of the principal national securities exchange on which such Shares are listed or admitted to trading, or if no Composite Tape exists for such national securities exchange on such date, then on the principal national securities exchange on which such Shares are listed or admitted to trading, or if the Shares are not listed or admitted to trading on a national securities exchange, the arithmetic mean of the per Share closing bid price and per Share closing asked price on such date as quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System (or such market in which such prices are regularly quoted), or if no sale of Shares shall have been reported on such Composite Tape or such national securities exchange on such date or quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System on such date, then the immediately preceding date on which sales of the Shares have been so reported or quoted shall be used.
 
(ii)
          
In the absence of such markets for the Ordinary Shares, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the Board.
 
(iii)
         
For any reference to Fair Market Value in the Plan used to establish the price at which the Company shall sell Ordinary Shares to a Participant under the terms and conditions of a Share Award (such as a Share Award of Options, Restricted Share Purchase Rights or Share Appreciation Rights), the date as of which this definition shall be applied shall be the grant date of such Share Award.
 
2.17
        
"Full-Value Share Award" shall mean any of a Restricted Share Bonus, Restricted Share Units, Phantom Share Units, Performance Share Bonus, or Performance Share Units.
 
2.18
        
"Incentive Stock Option" means an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
2.19
        
"Nominal Value" means US$0.00001 per Share.
2.20
        
"Non-Employee Director" means a Director who either (i) is not a current Employee or Officer of the Company or its parent or a subsidiary, does not receive compensation (directly or indirectly) from the Company or its parent or a subsidiary for services rendered as a consultant or in any capacity other than as a Director (except for an amount as to which disclosure would not be required under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act ("Regulation S-K")), does not possess an interest in any other transaction as to which disclosure would be required under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K and is not engaged in a business relationship as to which disclosure would be required under Item 404(b) of Regulation S-K; or (ii) is otherwise considered a "non-employee director" for purposes of Rule 16b-3.
 
2.21
        
"Nonstatutory Share Option" means an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
 
2.22
        
"Officer" means a person who is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
2.23
        
"Option" means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Share Option granted pursuant to the Plan.
 
2.24
        
"Option Agreement" means a written agreement between the Company and an Optionholder evidencing the terms and conditions of an individual Option grant.  Each Option Agreement shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
 
2.25
        
"Optionholder" means a person to whom an Option is granted pursuant to the Plan or, if applicable, such other person who holds an outstanding Option.
 
2.26
        
"Ordinary Share" or "Share" means an ordinary share of the Company, nominal value US$0.00001.
 
2.27
        
"Outside Director" means a Director who either (i) is not a current employee of the Company or an "affiliated corporation" (within the meaning of Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 162(m) of the Code), is not a former employee of the Company or an "affiliated corporation" receiving compensation for prior services (other than benefits under a tax qualified pension plan), was not an officer of the Company or an "affiliated corporation" at any time and is not currently receiving direct or indirect remuneration from the Company or an "affiliated corporation" for services in any capacity other than as a Director; or (ii) is otherwise considered an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
2.28
        
"Participant" means a person to whom a Share Award is granted pursuant to the Plan or, if applicable, such other person who holds an outstanding Share Award.
 
2.29
        
"Performance Share Bonus" means a grant of Ordinary Shares subject to the provisions of Section 8.6 of the Plan.
2.30
        
"Performance Share Unit" means the right to receive the value of one (1) Ordinary Share at the time the Performance Share Unit vests, with the further right to elect to defer receipt of that value otherwise deliverable upon the vesting of an award of Performance Share Units to the extent permitted in the Participant's agreement.  These Performance Share Units are subject to the provisions of Section 8.7 of the Plan.
 
2.31
        
"Phantom Share Unit" means the right to receive the value of one (1) Ordinary Share, subject to the provisions of Section 8.4 of the Plan.
 
2.32
        
"Plan" means this 2004 Share Compensation Plan of Seagate Technology public limited company.
 
2.33
        
"Qualifying Performance Criteria" means any one or more of the following performance criteria, or derivations of such performance criteria, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied to either the Company as a whole or to a business unit or subsidiary, and measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Committee: (a) pre- and after-tax income; (b) net income (before or after taxes); (c) operating income; (d) net earnings; (e) net operating income (before or after taxes); (f) operating margin; (g) gross margin; (h) cash flow; (i) earnings per share; (j) return on equity; (k) return on assets, investments or capital employed; (l) pre-tax profit; (m) revenue; (n) market share; (o) cash flow (before or after dividends); (p) cost reductions or savings; (q) funds from operations; (r) total shareholder return; (s) share price; (t) earnings before any one or more of the following items: interest, taxes, depreciation or amortization; (u) market capitalization; (v) economic value added; (w) operating ratio; (x) product development or release schedules; (y) new product innovation; (z) cost reductions; (aa) implementation of our critical processes or projects; (bb) customer service or customer satisfaction; or (cc) product quality measures.
 
2.34
        
"Restricted Share Bonus" means a grant of Ordinary Shares subject to the provisions of Section 8.1 of the Plan.
 
2.35
        
"Restricted Share Purchase Right" means the right to acquire Ordinary Shares upon the payment of the agreed-upon monetary consideration, subject to the provisions of Section 8.2 of the Plan.
 
2.36
        
"Restricted Share Unit" means the right to receive the value of one (1) Ordinary Share at the time the Restricted Share Unit vests, with the further right to elect to defer receipt of that value otherwise deliverable upon the vesting of an award of restricted share units to the extent permitted in the Participant's agreement.  These Restricted Share Units are subject to the provisions of Section 8.5 of the Plan.
 
2.37
        
"Rule 16b-3" means Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act or any successor to Rule 16b-3, as in effect from time to time.
 
2.38
        
"Securities Act" means the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
2.39
        
"Share Appreciation Right" means the right to receive an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of one (1) Ordinary Share on the day the Share Appreciation Right is redeemed, reduced by the deemed exercise price or base price of such right, subject to the provisions of Section 8.3 of the Plan.
 
2.40
        
"Share Award" means any Option award, Restricted Share Bonus award, Restricted Share Purchase Right award, Share Appreciation Right award, Phantom Share Unit award, Restricted Share Unit award, Performance Share Bonus award, Performance Share Unit award, or other share-based award.  These Awards may include, but are not limited to those listed in Section 1.2.
 
2.41
        
"Share Award Agreement" means a written agreement between the Company and a holder of a Share Award setting forth the terms and conditions of an individual Share Award grant.  Each Share Award Agreement shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
 
2.42
        
"Ten Percent Shareholder" means a person who owns (or is deemed to own pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code) shares possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of shares of the Company or of any of its Affiliates.
 
3.1
          
Administration by Board
.  The Board shall administer the Plan unless and until the Board delegates administration to a Committee, as provided in Section 3.3.
 
3.2
          
Powers of Board
.  The Board shall have the power, subject to, and within the limitations of, the express provisions of the Plan:
 
(i)
           
To determine from time to time which of the persons eligible under the Plan shall be granted Share Awards; when and how each Share Award shall be granted; what type or combination of types of Share Award shall be granted; the provisions of each Share Award granted (which need not be identical), including the time or times when a person shall be permitted to receive Ordinary Shares pursuant to a Share Award; and the number of Shares with respect to which a Share Award shall be granted to each such person.
 
(ii)
          
To construe and interpret the Plan and Share Awards granted under it, and to establish, amend and revoke rules and regulations for its administration.  The Board, in the exercise of this power, may correct any defect, omission or inconsistency in the Plan or in any Share Award Agreement, in a manner and to the extent it shall deem necessary or expedient to make the Plan fully effective.
 
(iii)
         
To amend the Plan or a Share Award as provided in Section 15 of the Plan.
 
(iv)
         
Generally, to exercise such powers and to perform such acts as the Board deems necessary, desirable, convenient or expedient to promote the best interests of the Company that are not in conflict with the provisions of the Plan.
(v)
          
To adopt sub-plans and/or special provisions applicable to Share Awards regulated by the laws of a jurisdiction other than and outside of the United States.  Such sub-plans and/or special provisions may take precedence over other provisions of the Plan, with the exception of Section 4 of the Plan, but unless otherwise superseded by the terms of such sub-plans and/or special provisions, the provisions of the Plan shall govern.
 
3.3
          
Delegation to Committee
.
 
(i)
           
General
.  The Board may delegate administration of the Plan to a Committee or Committees of one or more individuals, and the term "Committee" shall apply to any person or persons to whom such authority has been delegated.  If administration is delegated to a Committee, the Committee shall have, in connection with the administration of the Plan, the powers theretofore possessed by the Board, including the power to delegate to a subcommittee any of the administrative powers the Committee is authorized to exercise (and references in this Plan to the Board shall thereafter be to the Committee or subcommittee, as applicable), subject, however, to such resolutions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as may be adopted from time to time by the Board.  The Board may abolish the Committee at any time and revest in the Board the administration of the Plan.
 
(ii)
          
Committee Composition when Ordinary Shares are Publicly Traded
.  At such time as the Ordinary Shares are publicly traded, in the discretion of the Board, a Committee may consist solely of two or more Outside Directors, in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code, and/or solely of two or more Non-Employee Directors, in accordance with Rule 16b-3.  Within the scope of such authority, the Board or the Committee may (1) delegate to a committee of one or more individuals who are not Outside Directors the authority to grant Share Awards to eligible persons who are either (a) not then Covered Employees and are not expected to be Covered Employees at the time of recognition of income resulting from such Share Award or (b) not persons with respect to whom the Company wishes to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code and/or (2) delegate to a committee of one or more individuals who are not Non-Employee Directors the authority to grant Share Awards to eligible persons who are either (a) not then subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act or (b) receiving a Share Award as to which the Board or Committee elects not to comply with Rule 16b-3 by having two or more Non-Employee Directors grant such Share Award.
 
3.4
          
Effect of Board's Decision
.  All determinations, interpretations and constructions made by the Board in good faith shall not be subject to review by any person and shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons.
 
4.1
          
Share Reserve
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 14 of the Plan relating to adjustments upon changes in Ordinary Shares, the maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be issued pursuant to Share Awards shall not exceed sixty three million five hundred thousand (63,500,000) shares, provided that each Share Award granted will reduce the share reserve by one (1) share upon the issuance of a share at the time of grant, exercise or redemption, as applicable.  To the extent that a distribution pursuant to a Share Award is made in cash, the share reserve shall
remain unaffected.  In addition, the maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be issued pursuant to Full-Value Share Awards shall not exceed ten million (10,000,000) Shares ("Full-Value Share Award Share Reserve").
 
4.2
          
Reversion of Shares to the Share Reserve
.  If any Share Award shall for any reason (i) expire, be cancelled or otherwise terminate, in whole or in part, without having been exercised or redeemed in full, (ii) be reacquired by the Company prior to vesting, or (iii) be repurchased at cost by the Company prior to vesting, the Shares not acquired under such Share Award shall revert to and again become available for issuance under the Plan, and if subject to a Full-Value Share Award, shall also reduce the number of Shares issued against the Full-Value Share Award Share Reserve.  To the extent that a Share Award granted under the Plan is redeemed by payment in cash rather than Shares according to its terms, the Shares subject to the redeemed portion of the Share Award shall revert to and again become available for issuance under the Plan.
 
4.3
          
Source of Shares
.  The Shares subject to the Plan may be unissued Shares or reacquired Shares, bought on the market or otherwise.
 
5.1
          
Eligibility for Specific Share Awards
.  Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Employees.  Share Awards other than Incentive Stock Options may be granted to Employees, Directors and Consultants.
 
5.2
          
Ten Percent Shareholders
.  A Ten Percent Shareholder shall not be granted an Incentive Stock Option unless the exercise price of such Option is at least one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of the Ordinary Shares at the date of grant and the Option is not exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years from the date of grant.
 
5.3
          
Annual Section 162(m) Limitation
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 14 of the Plan relating to adjustments upon changes in the Ordinary Shares, no Employee shall be eligible to be granted Share Awards covering more than ten million (10,000,000) Shares during any fiscal year.
 
5.4
          
Individual Full-Value Share Award Limitation over Life of Plan
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 14 of the Plan relating to adjustments upon changes in the Ordinary Shares, no individual shall be eligible to be issued more than ten million (10,000,000) Shares under all Full-Value Share Awards (i.e., Restricted Share Bonuses, Restricted Share Units, Phantom Share Units, Performance Share Bonuses, and Performance Share Units, but not Incentive Stock Options, Nonstatutory Share Options, or Share Appreciation Rights for which an annual limit is provided under Section 5.3) granted to such individual under the Plan.
 
5.5
          
Consultants
.
 
(i)
           
A Consultant shall not be eligible for the grant of a Share Award if, at the time of grant, a Form S-8 Registration Statement under the Securities Act ("Form S-8") is not available to register either the offer or the sale of the Company's securities to such Consultant because of the
nature of the services that the Consultant is providing to the Company, or because the Consultant is not a natural person, or as otherwise provided by the rules governing the use of Form S-8, unless the Company determines both (1) that such grant (A) shall be registered in another manner under the Securities Act (e.g., on a Form S-3 Registration Statement) or (B) does not require registration under the Securities Act in order to comply with the requirements of the Securities Act, if applicable, and (2) that such grant complies with the securities laws of all other relevant jurisdictions.
 
(ii)
          
Form S-8 generally is available to consultants and advisors only if (A) they are natural persons; (B) they provide bona fide services to the issuer, its parents, its majority owned subsidiaries: and (C) the services are not in connection with the offer or sale of securities in a capital-raising transaction, and do not directly or indirectly promote or maintain a market for the issuer's securities.
 
Each Option shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board shall deem appropriate.  All Options shall be separately designated Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Share Options at the time of grant.  The provisions of separate Options need not be identical, but each Option shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the Option or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
 
6.1
          
Term
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 5.2 of the Plan regarding grants of Incentive Stock Options to Ten Percent Shareholders, no Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of seven (7) years from the date it was granted.
 
6.2
          
Exercise Price of an Incentive Stock Option
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 5.2 of the Plan regarding Ten Percent Shareholders, the exercise price of each Incentive Stock Option shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the Option on the date the Option is granted.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Incentive Stock Option may be granted with an exercise price lower than that set forth in the preceding sentence if such Option is granted pursuant to an assumption or substitution for another option in a manner satisfying the provisions of Section 424(a) of the Code.
 
6.3
          
Exercise Price of a Nonstatutory Share Option
.  The exercise price of each Nonstatutory Share Option shall be not less than eighty-five percent (85%) of the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the Option on the date the Option is granted.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Nonstatutory Share Option may be granted with an exercise price lower than that set forth in the preceding sentence if such Option is granted pursuant to an assumption or substitution for another option in a manner satisfying the provisions of Section 424(a) of the Code.
 
6.4
          
Consideration
.  The purchase price of Ordinary Shares acquired pursuant to an Option shall be paid, to the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, either (i) in cash or by check at the time the Option is exercised or (ii) at the discretion of the Board at the time of the grant of the Option (or subsequently in the case of a Nonstatutory Share Option): (1) by delivery to the Company of other Shares, (2) according to a deferred payment or other similar arrangement with the
 
Optionholder, including use of a promissory note, (3) pursuant to a "same day sale" program, or (4) by some combination of the foregoing.  Unless otherwise specifically provided in the Option Agreement, the purchase price of Ordinary Shares acquired pursuant to an Option that is paid by delivery to the Company of other Shares acquired, directly or indirectly from the Company, shall be paid only by Shares that have been held for more than six (6) months (or such longer or shorter period of time required to avoid a charge to earnings for financial accounting purposes).
 
In the case of any deferred payment arrangement, interest shall be compounded at least annually and shall be charged at the market rate of interest and contain such other terms and conditions necessary to avoid a charge to earnings for financial accounting purposes as a result of the use of such deferred payment arrangement.
 
.  An Incentive Stock Option shall not be transferable except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the Optionholder only by the Optionholder.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if provided in the Option Agreement, the Optionholder may, by delivering written notice to the Company, in a form satisfactory to the Company, designate a third party who, in the event of the death of the Optionholder, shall thereafter be entitled to exercise the Option.
6.5
          
Transferability of an Incentive Stock Option
 
.  A Nonstatutory Share Option shall be transferable to the extent provided in the Option Agreement.  If the Nonstatutory Share Option does not provide for transferability, then the Nonstatutory Share Option shall not be transferable except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the Optionholder only by the Optionholder.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if provided in the Option Agreement, the Optionholder may, by delivering written notice to the Company, in a form satisfactory to the Company, designate a third party who, in the event of the death of the Optionholder, shall thereafter be entitled to exercise the Option.
6.6
          
Transferability of a Nonstatutory Share Option
 
.  Options granted under the Plan shall be exercisable at such time and upon such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Board.  The vesting provisions of individual Options may vary.  The provisions of this Section 6.7 are subject to any Option provisions governing the minimum number of Shares as to which an Option may be exercised.
6.7
          
Vesting Generally
 
.  In the event an Optionholder's Continuous Service terminates (other than upon the Optionholder's death or Disability), the Optionholder may exercise his or her Option (to the extent that the Optionholder was entitled to exercise such Option as of the date of termination) but only within such period of time ending on the earlier of (i) the date three (3) months following the termination of the Optionholder's Continuous Service (or such longer or shorter period specified in the Option Agreement), or (ii) the expiration of the term of the Option as set forth in the Option Agreement.  If, after termination, the Optionholder does not exercise his or her Option within the time specified in the Option Agreement, the Option shall terminate.
6.8
          
Termination of Continuous Service
 
.  An Optionholder's Option Agreement may also provide that if the exercise of the Option following the termination of the Optionholder's Continuous Service (other than upon the Optionholder's death or Disability) would be prohibited at any time
6.9
          
Extension of Termination Date
solely because the issuance of Shares would violate the registration requirements under the Securities Act or other applicable securities law, then the Option shall terminate on the earlier of (i) the expiration of the term of the Option set forth in the Option Agreement or (ii) the expiration of a period of three (3) months after the termination of the Optionholder's Continuous Service during which the exercise of the Option would not be in violation of such registration requirements or other applicable securities law.
 
.  In the event that an Optionholder's Continuous Service terminates as a result of the Optionholder's Disability, the Optionholder may exercise his or her Option (to the extent that the Optionholder was entitled to exercise such Option as of the date of termination), but only within such period of time ending on the earlier of (i) the date twelve (12) months following such termination (or such longer or shorter period specified in the Option Agreement) or (ii) the expiration of the term of the Option as set forth in the Option Agreement.  If after termination, the Optionholder does not exercise his or her Option within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.
6.10
        
Disability of Optionholder
 
.  In the event (i) an Optionholder's Continuous Service terminates as a result of the Optionholder's death or (ii) the Optionholder dies within the period (if any) specified in the Option Agreement after the termination of the Optionholder's Continuous Service for a reason other than death, then the Option may be exercised (to the extent the Optionholder was entitled to exercise such Option as of the date of death) by the Optionholder's estate, by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance or by a person designated to exercise the Option upon the Optionholder's death pursuant to Section 6.5 or 6.6 of the Plan, but only within the period ending on the earlier of (1) the date twelve (12) months following the date of death (or such longer or shorter period specified in the Option Agreement) or (2) the expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement.  If, after death, the Option is not exercised within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.
6.11
        
Death of Optionholder
 
.  The Option Agreement may, but need not, include a provision whereby the Optionholder may elect at any time before the Optionholder's Continuous Service terminates to exercise the Option as to any part or all of the Shares subject to the Option prior to the full vesting of the Option.  Any unvested Shares so purchased may be subject to a repurchase option in favor of the Company or to any other restriction the Board determines to be appropriate.
6.12
        
Early Exercise
 
In addition to any other Share Awards that Eligible Directors may be granted on a discretionary basis under the Plan, each Eligible Director of the Company shall be automatically granted without the necessity of action by the Board, the following Share Award grants:
 
.
7.1
          
Initial Share Award Grant
 
.  On the date that a Director commences service on the Board and satisfies the definition of an Eligible Director, an initial grant of Nonstatutory Share Options and/or Full-Value Share Awards shall automatically be made to that Eligible Director
(i)
           
Form of Initial Share Award
(collectively, the "Initial Grant").  The existing independent members of the Board shall determine which portion of each Initial Grant will be granted in the form of a Nonstatutory Share Option, if any, and which portion of each Initial Grant will be granted in the form of a Full-Value Share Award, if any.
 
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 14 of the Plan, the number of Shares covered by the Initial Grant shall be determined by the existing independent members of the Board, and shall in no event exceed one hundred thousand (100,000) Shares ("Initial Grant Limit"); provided that (a) the number of Shares subject to that portion, if any, of the Initial Grant awarded in the form of a Nonstatutory Share Option shall be counted against the Initial Grant Limit on a one-for-one basis and (b) the number of Shares subject to that portion, if any, of the Initial Grant awarded in the form of a Full-Value Share Award shall be counted against the Initial Grant Limit as three Shares for every one Share subject to such Full-Value Share Award.
(ii)
          
Number of Shares Subject to Initial Share Award Grant
 
.  The exercise price of any Nonstatutory Share Options granted as part of an Initial Grant shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the option on the date the option is granted.  The maximum term of any Nonstatutory Share Options granted as part of an Initial Grant shall be seven (7) years.  Nonstatutory Share Options and/or Full-Value Share Awards granted as part of an Initial Grant shall generally vest and become exercisable over a period of four (4) years in equal annual installments provided that the Director remains in Continuous Service during that period.  In all other respects, Share Awards granted pursuant to an Initial Grant shall contain in substance the same terms and conditions either as set forth in Section 6 with respect to Options, or as set forth in Section 8 with respect to Full-Value Share Awards, as applicable.  If at the time a Director commences service on the Board, the Director does not satisfy the definition of an Eligible Director, such Director shall not be entitled to an Initial Grant at any time, even if such Director subsequently becomes an Eligible Director.
(iii)
         
Other Terms
 
.
7.2
          
Annual Share Award Grant
 
.  An annual grant of Nonstatutory Share Options and/or Full-Value Share Awards (collectively, the "Annual Grant") shall automatically be made to each Director who (1) is re-elected to the Board, (2) is an Eligible Director on the relevant grant date, and (3) has served as a Director for a period of at least six (6) months.  The existing independent members of the Board shall determine which portion of each Annual Grant will be granted in the form of a Nonstatutory Share Option, if any, and which portion of each Annual Grant will be granted in the form of a Full-Value Share Award, if any.
(i)
           
Form of Annual Share Award
 
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 14 of the Plan, the number of Shares covered by the Annual Grant shall be determined by the existing independent members of the Board, and shall in no event exceed twenty five thousand (25,000) Shares ("Annual Grant Limit"); provided that (a) the number of Shares subject to that portion, if any, of the Annual Grant awarded in the form of a Nonstatutory Share Option shall be counted against the Annual Grant Limit on a one-for-one basis and (b) the number of Shares subject to that portion, if any, of the Annual Grant awarded in the form of a Full-Value Share
(ii)
          
Number of Shares Subject to Annual Share Award Grant
 
Award shall be counted against the Annual Grant Limit as three Shares for every one Share subject to such Full-Value Share Award.
 
.  The exercise price of any Nonstatutory Share Options granted as part of an Annual Grant shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the option on the date the option is granted.  The maximum term of any Nonstatutory Share Options granted as part of an Annual Grant shall be seven (7) years.  Nonstatutory Share Options and/or Full-Value Share Awards granted as part of an Annual Grant shall generally vest and become exercisable over a period of four (4) years in equal annual installments provided that the Director remains in Continuous Service during that period.  In all other respects, Share Awards granted pursuant to an Annual Grant shall contain in substance the same terms and conditions either as set forth in Section 6 with respect to Options, or as set forth in Section 8 with respect to Full-Value Share Awards, as applicable.  If at the time a Director commences service on the Board, the Director does not satisfy the definition of an Eligible Director, such Director shall not be entitled to an Annual Grant at any time, even if such Director subsequently becomes an Eligible Director.
(iii)
         
Other Terms
 
.  Each Restricted Share Bonus agreement shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board shall deem appropriate.  Restricted Share Bonuses shall be paid by the Company in Ordinary Shares.  Should Shares be issued pursuant to a Restricted Share Bonus award in circumstances where they are not otherwise fully paid up, the Board may require the Participant to pay the aggregate Nominal Value of the Shares on the basis that such Shares underlying the Restricted Share Bonus award shall then be allotted as fully paid to the Participant.  The terms and conditions of Restricted Share Bonus agreements may change from time to time, and the terms and conditions of separate Restricted Share Bonus agreements need not be identical, but each Restricted Share Bonus agreement shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
8.1
          
Restricted Share Bonus Awards
 
.  Vesting shall generally be based on the Participant's Continuous Service.  Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Bonus agreement shall be subject to a share reacquisition right in favor of the Company in accordance with a vesting schedule to be determined by the Board.
(i)
           
Vesting
 
.  In the event a Participant's Continuous Service terminates, the Company shall reacquire any or all of the Shares held by the Participant that have not vested as of the date of termination under the terms of the Restricted Share Bonus agreement.
(ii)
          
Termination of Participant's Continuous Service
 
.  Rights to acquire Shares under the Restricted Share Bonus agreement shall be transferable by the Participant only upon such terms and conditions as are set forth in the Restricted Share Bonus agreement, as the Board shall determine in its discretion, so long
(iii)
         
Transferability
as Ordinary Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Bonus agreement remain subject to the terms of the Restricted Share Bonus agreement.
 
.  Each Restricted Share Purchase agreement shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board shall deem appropriate.  The terms and conditions of the Restricted Share Purchase agreements may change from time to time, and the terms and conditions of separate Restricted Share Purchase agreements need not be identical, but each Restricted Share Purchase agreement shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
8.2
          
Restricted Share Purchase Awards
 
.  The purchase price under each Restricted Share Purchase agreement shall be such amount as the Board shall determine and designate in such Restricted Share Purchase agreement.  The purchase price shall not be less than eighty-five percent (85%) of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date such award is made or at the time the purchase is consummated.
(i)
           
Purchase Price
 
.  The purchase price of the Shares acquired pursuant to the Restricted Share Purchase agreement shall be paid either: (A) in cash or by check at the time of purchase; (B) at the discretion of the Board, according to a deferred payment or other similar arrangement with the Participant, including use of a promissory note; or (C) in any other form of legal consideration that may be acceptable to the Board in its discretion.
(ii)
          
Consideration
 
.  The Board shall determine the criteria under which Shares under the Restricted Share Purchase agreement may vest; the criteria may or may not include performance criteria or Continuous Service.  Shares acquired under the Restricted Share Purchase agreement may, but need not, be subject to a share repurchase option in favor of the Company in accordance with a vesting schedule to be determined by the Board.
(iii)
         
Vesting
 
.  In the event a Participant's Continuous Service terminates, the Company may repurchase any or all of the Shares held by the Participant that have not vested as of the date of termination under the terms of the Restricted Share Purchase agreement.
(iv)
         
Termination of Participant's Continuous Service
 
.  Rights to acquire Shares under the Restricted Share Purchase agreement shall be transferable by the Participant only upon such terms and conditions as are set forth in the Restricted Share Purchase agreement, as the Board shall determine in its discretion, so long as Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Purchase agreement remain subject to the terms of the Restricted Share Purchase agreement.
(v)
          
Transferability
 
.  Two types of Share Appreciation Rights ("SARs") shall be authorized for issuance under the Plan: (1) stand-alone SARs and (2) stapled SARs.
8.3
          
Share Appreciation Rights
 
.  The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant and redeemability of stand-alone SARs:
(i)
           
Stand-Alone SARs
The stand-alone SAR shall cover a specified number of underlying Shares and shall be redeemable upon such terms and conditions as the Board may establish.  Upon redemption of the stand-alone SAR, the holder shall be entitled to receive a distribution from the Company in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the aggregate Fair Market Value (on the redemption date) of the Shares underlying the redeemed right over (ii) the aggregate base price in effect for those Shares.
(A)
         
 
The number of Shares underlying each stand-alone SAR and the base price in effect for those Shares shall be determined by the Board in its sole discretion at the time the stand-alone SAR is granted.  In no event, however, may the base price per Share be less than eighty-five percent (85%) of the Fair Market Value per underlying Share on the grant date.
(B)
          
 
The distribution with respect to any redeemed stand-alone SAR may be made in Shares valued at Fair Market Value on the redemption date, in cash, or partly in Shares and partly in cash, as the Board shall in its sole discretion deem appropriate.
(C)
          
 
.  The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant and redemption of stapled SARs:
(ii)
          
Stapled SARs
 
Stapled SARs may only be granted concurrently with an Option to acquire the same number of Shares as the number of such Shares underlying the stapled SARs.
(A)
         
 
Stapled SARs shall be redeemable upon such terms and conditions as the Board may establish and shall grant a holder the right to elect among (i) the exercise of the concurrently granted Option for Shares, whereupon the number of Shares subject to the stapled SARs shall be reduced by an equivalent number, (ii) the redemption of such stapled SARs in exchange for a distribution from the Company in an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value (on the redemption date) of the number of vested Shares which the holder redeems over the aggregate base price for such vested Shares, whereupon the number of Shares subject to the concurrently granted Option shall be reduced by any equivalent number, or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii).
(B)
          
 
The distribution to which the holder of stapled SARs shall become entitled under this Section 8 upon the redemption of stapled SARs as described in Section 8.3(ii)(B) above may be made in Shares valued at Fair Market Value on the redemption date, in cash, or partly in Shares and partly in cash, as the Board shall in its sole discretion deem appropriate.
(C)
          
 
.  The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant and redeemability of Phantom Share Units:
8.4
          
Phantom Share Units
 
Phantom Share Unit awards shall be redeemable by the Participant to the Company upon such terms and conditions as the Board may establish.  The value of a single Phantom Share Unit shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share, unless the Board otherwise provides in the terms of the Share Award Agreement.
(i)
           
The distribution with respect to any exercised Phantom Share Unit award may be made in Shares valued at Fair Market Value on the redemption date, in cash, or partly in Shares and partly in cash, as the Board shall in its sole discretion deem appropriate.   Should Shares be issued pursuant to a Phantom Share Unit award in circumstances where they are not otherwise fully paid up, the Board may require the Participant to pay the aggregate Nominal Value of the Shares on the basis that such Shares underlying the Phantom Share Unit award shall then be allotted as fully paid to the Participant.
(ii)
          
 
.  The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant and redeemability of Restricted Share Units:
8.5
          
Restricted Share Units
 
A Restricted Share Unit is the right to receive the value of one (1) Ordinary Share at the time the Restricted Share Unit vests.  Should Shares be issued pursuant to a Restricted Share Unit award in circumstances where they are not otherwise fully paid up, the Board may require the Participant to pay the aggregate Nominal Value of the Shares on the basis that such Shares underlying the Restricted Share Unit award shall then be allotted as fully paid to the Participant.
 
To the extent permitted by the Committee in the terms of his or her Share Award Agreement, a Participant may elect to defer receipt of the value of the Shares otherwise deliverable upon the vesting of an award of Restricted Share Units, so long as such deferral election complies with applicable law, including to the extent applicable, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA").  An election to defer such delivery shall be irrevocable and shall be made in writing on a form acceptable to the Company.  The election form shall be filed prior to the vesting date of such Restricted Share Units in a manner determined by the Board.  When the Participant vests in such Restricted Share Units, the Participant will be credited with a number of Restricted Share Units equal to the number of Shares for which delivery is deferred.  Restricted Share Units may be paid by the Company by delivery of Shares, in cash, or a combination thereof, as the Board shall in its sole discretion deem appropriate, in accordance with the timing and manner of payment elected by the Participant on his or her election form, or if no deferral election is made, as soon as administratively practicable following the vesting of the Restricted Share Unit.
 
Each Restricted Share Unit agreement shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board shall deem appropriate.  The terms and conditions of Restricted Share Unit agreements may change from time to time, and the terms and conditions of separate Restricted Share Unit agreements need not be identical, but each Restricted Share Unit agreement shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
 
.  Vesting shall generally be based on the Participant's Continuous Service.  Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Unit agreement shall be subject to a Share reacquisition right in favor of the Company in accordance with a vesting schedule to be determined by the Board.
(i)
           
Vesting
 
.  In the event a Participant's Continuous Service terminates, the Company shall reacquire any or all of the Shares held by the
(ii)
          
Termination of Participant's Continuous Service
 
Participant that have not vested as of the date of termination under the terms of the Restricted Share Unit agreement.
 
.  Rights to acquire the value of Shares under the Restricted Share Unit agreement shall be transferable by the Participant only upon such terms and conditions as are set forth in the Restricted Share Unit agreement, as the Board shall determine in its discretion, so long as any Ordinary Shares awarded under the Restricted Share Unit agreement remain subject to the terms of the Restricted Share Unit agreement.
(iii)
         
Transferability
 
.  Each Performance Share Bonus agreement shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board shall deem appropriate.  Performance Share Bonuses shall be paid by the Company in Ordinary Shares.  Should Shares be issued pursuant to a Performance Share Bonus award in circumstances where they are not otherwise fully paid up, the Board may require the Participant to pay the aggregate Nominal Value of the Shares on the basis that such Shares underlying the Performance Share Bonus award shall then be allotted as fully paid to the Participant.  The terms and conditions of Performance Share Bonus agreements may change from time to time, and the terms and conditions of separate Performance Share Bonus agreements need not be identical, but each Performance Share Bonus agreement shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
8.6
          
Performance Share Bonus Awards
 
.  Vesting shall be based on the achievement of certain performance criteria, whether financial, transactional or otherwise, as determined by the Board.  Vesting shall be subject to the Performance Share Bonus agreement.  Upon failure to meet performance criteria, Shares awarded under the Performance Share Bonus agreement shall be subject to a share reacquisition right in favor of the Company in accordance with a vesting schedule to be determined by the Board.
(i)
           
Vesting
 
.  In the event a Participant's Continuous Service terminates, the Company shall reacquire any or all of the Shares held by the Participant that have not vested as of the date of termination under the terms of the Performance Share Bonus agreement.
(ii)
          
Termination of Participant's Continuous Service
 
.  Rights to acquire Shares under the Performance Share Bonus agreement shall be transferable by the Participant only upon such terms and conditions as are set forth in the Performance Share Bonus agreement, as the Board shall determine in its discretion, so long as Ordinary Shares awarded under the Performance Share Bonus agreement remain subject to the terms of the Performance Share Bonus agreement.
(iii)
         
Transferability
 
.  Subject to the limits imposed under Section 162(m) of the Code for Share Awards that are intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation," notwithstanding the satisfaction of any performance goals, the number of Shares granted, issued, retainable and/or vested under a Performance Share Bonus may, to the extent specified in the Share Award Agreement, be reduced, but not increased, by the Committee on the basis of such further considerations as the Committee shall determine
(iv)
         
Discretionary Adjustments and Limits
.  The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant and redeemability of Performance Share Units:
8.7
          
Performance Share Units
 
A Performance Share Unit is the right to receive the value of one (1) Ordinary Share at the time the Performance Share Unit vests.  Should Shares be issued pursuant to a Performance Share Unit award in circumstances where they are not otherwise fully paid up, the Board may require the Participant to pay the aggregate Nominal Value of the Shares on the basis that such Shares underlying the Performance Share Unit award shall then be allotted as fully paid to the Participant.
 
To the extent permitted by the Committee in the terms of his or her Share Award Agreement, a Participant may elect to defer receipt of the value of Shares otherwise deliverable upon the vesting of an award of Performance Share Units, so long as such deferral election complies with applicable law.  An election to defer such delivery shall be irrevocable and shall be made in writing on a form acceptable to the Company.  The election form shall be filed prior to the vesting date of such Performance Share Units in a manner determined by the Board.  When the Participant vests in such Performance Share Units, the Participant will be credited with a number of Performance Share Units equal to the number of Shares for which delivery is deferred.  Performance Share Units may be paid by the Company by delivery of Shares, in cash, or a combination thereof, as the Board shall in its sole discretion deem appropriate, in accordance with the timing and manner of payment elected by the Participant on his or her election form, or if no deferral election is made, as soon as administratively practicable following the vesting of the Performance Share Unit.
 
Each Performance Share Unit agreement shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board shall deem appropriate.  The terms and conditions of Performance Share Unit agreements may change from time to time, and the terms and conditions of separate Performance Share Unit agreements need not be identical, but each Performance Share Unit agreement shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the agreement or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
 
.  Vesting shall be based on the achievement of certain performance criteria, whether financial, transactional or otherwise, as determined by the Board.  Vesting shall be subject to the Performance Share Unit agreement.  Upon failure to meet performance criteria, Shares awarded under the Performance Share Unit agreement shall be subject to a Share reacquisition right in favor of the Company in accordance with a vesting schedule to be determined by the Board.
(i)
           
Vesting
 
.  In the event a Participant's Continuous Service terminates, the Company shall reacquire any or all of the Shares held by the Participant that have not vested as of the date of termination under the terms of the Performance Share Unit agreement.
(ii)
          
Termination of Participant's Continuous Service
 
.  Rights to acquire the value of Shares under the Performance Share Unit agreement shall be transferable by the Participant only upon such terms and conditions as are set forth in the Performance Share Unit agreement, as the Board shall determine in its discretion, so long as Ordinary Shares awarded under the Performance Share Unit agreement remain subject to the terms of the Performance Share Unit agreement.
(iii)
         
Transferability
.  Subject to the limits imposed under Section 162(m) of the Code for Share Awards that are intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation," notwithstanding the satisfaction of any performance goals, the number of Shares granted, issued, retainable and/or vested under a Performance Share Unit may, to the extent specified in the Share Award Agreement, be reduced, but not increased, by the Committee on the basis of such further considerations as the Committee shall determine.
(iv)
         
Discretionary Adjustments and Limits
 
.  During the terms of the Share Awards, the Company shall keep available at all times the number of Ordinary Shares required to satisfy such Share Awards.
9.1
          
Availability of Shares
 
.  The Company shall seek to obtain from each regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction over the Plan such authority as may be required to grant Share Awards and to issue and sell Ordinary Shares upon exercise, redemption or satisfaction of the Share Awards; provided, however, that this undertaking shall not require the Company to register under the Securities Act the Plan, any Share Award or any Ordinary Shares issued or issuable pursuant to any such Share Award.  If, after reasonable efforts, the Company is unable to obtain from any such regulatory commission or agency the authority which counsel for the Company deems necessary for the lawful issuance and sale of Ordinary Shares under the Plan, the Company shall be relieved from any liability for failure to issue and sell Ordinary Shares related to such Share Awards unless and until such authority is obtained.
9.2
          
Securities Law Compliance
 
.  The Committee may establish performance criteria and the level of achievement versus such criteria that shall determine the number of Shares to be granted, retained, vested, issued or issuable under or in settlement of or the amount payable pursuant to a Share Award (including a, Restricted Share Bonus, Restricted Share Purchase Right, Restricted Share Unit, Performance Share Bonus or Performance Share Unit award), which criteria may be based on Qualifying Performance Criteria or other standards of financial performance and/or personal performance evaluations.  In addition, the Committee may specify that a Share Award or a portion of a Share Award is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, provided that the performance criteria for such Award or portion of a Share Award that is intended by the Committee to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be a measure based on one or more Qualifying Performance Criteria selected by the Committee and specified at the time the Award is granted, or within the time prescribed by Section 162(m) and shall otherwise be in compliance with Section 162(m).  The Committee shall certify the extent to which any Qualifying Performance Criteria has been satisfied, and the amount payable as a result thereof, prior to payment, settlement or vesting of any Award that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code.  Notwithstanding satisfaction of any performance goals, the number of Shares issued under or the amount paid under an award may, to the extent specified in the Share Award Agreement, be reduced, but not increased, by the Committee on the basis of such further considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine.
10.1
        
General
 
.  To the extent consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee (a) shall appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under a Qualifying Performance Criteria to eliminate the effects of charges for restructurings, discontinued operations, extraordinary items and all items of gain, loss or expense determined to be extraordinary or unusual in nature or related to the disposal of a segment of a business or related to a change in accounting principle all as determined in accordance with standards established by opinion No. 30 of the Accounting Principles Board (APA Opinion No. 30) or other applicable or successor accounting provisions, as well as the cumulative effect of accounting changes, in each case as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or identified in the Company's financial statements or notes to the financial statements, and (b) may appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under a Qualifying Performance Criteria to exclude any of the following events that occurs during a performance period: (i) asset write-downs, (ii) litigation, claims, judgments or settlements, (iii) the effect of changes in tax law or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results, (iv) accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs and (v) accruals of any amounts for payment under this Plan or any other compensation arrangement maintained by the Company.
10.2
        
Adjustments
 
Proceeds from the sale of Ordinary Shares pursuant to Share Awards shall constitute general funds of the Company.
 
The Board shall have the authority to effect, at any time and from time to time, (i) the repricing of any outstanding Options under the Plan and/or (ii) with the consent of the affected Optionholders, the cancellation of any outstanding Options under the Plan and the grant in substitution therefor of new Options under the Plan covering the same or different number of Shares, but having an exercise price per Share not less than eighty-five percent (85%) of the Fair Market Value (one hundred percent (100%) of Fair Market Value in the case of an Incentive Stock Option or, in the case of a Ten Percent Shareholder (as described in Section 5.2 of the Plan), not less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value) per Share on the new grant date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may grant an Option with an exercise price lower than that set forth above if such Option is granted as part of a transaction to which Section 424(a) of the Code applies.  Prior to the implementation of any such repricing or cancellation of one or more outstanding Options, the Board shall obtain the approval of the shareholders of the Company to the extent required by any New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq or other securities exchange listing requirements, or applicable law.
12.1
        
 
Shares subject to an Option canceled under this Section 12 shall continue to be counted against the maximum award of Options permitted to be granted pursuant to Section 5.3 of the Plan.  The repricing of an Option under this Section 12, resulting in a reduction of the exercise price, shall be deemed to be a cancellation of the original Option and the grant of a substitute Option; in the event of such repricing, both the original and the substituted Options shall be counted against the maximum awards of Options permitted to be granted pursuant to Section 5.3 of the Plan.
12.2
        
 
The provisions of this Section 12.2 shall be applicable only to the extent required by Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
.  The Board (or Committee, if so authorized by the Board) shall have the power to accelerate exercisability and/or vesting when it deems fit, such as upon a Change of Control.  The Board or Committee shall have the power to accelerate the time at which a Share Award may first be exercised or the time during which a Share Award or any part thereof will vest in accordance with the Plan, notwithstanding the provisions in the Award Agreement stating the time at which it may first be exercised or the time during which it will vest.
13.1
        
Acceleration of Exercisability and Vesting
 
.  No Participant shall be deemed to be the holder of, or to have any of the rights of a holder with respect to, any Shares subject to a Share Award except to the extent that the Company has issued the Shares relating to such Share Award.
13.2
        
Shareholder Rights
 
.  Nothing in the Plan or any instrument executed or Share Award granted pursuant thereto shall confer upon any Participant any right to continue to serve the Company or an Affiliate in the capacity in effect at the time the Share Award was granted or shall affect the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate (i) the employment of an Employee with or without notice and with or without cause, (ii) the service of a Consultant pursuant to the terms of such Consultant's agreement with the Company or an Affiliate or (iii) the service of a Director pursuant to the Bylaws of the Company, and any applicable provisions of the corporate law of the state or other jurisdiction in which the Company is domiciled, as the case may be.
13.3
        
No Employment or other Service Rights
 
.  To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the time of grant) of the Ordinary Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by any Optionholder during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company and its Affiliates) exceeds one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), the Options or portions thereof which exceed such limit (according to the order in which they were granted) shall be treated as Nonstatutory Share Options.
13.4
        
Incentive Stock Option $100,000 Limitation
 
.  The Company may require a Participant, as a condition of exercising or redeeming a Share Award or acquiring Shares under any Share Award, (i) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company as to the Participant's knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and/or to employ a purchaser representative reasonably satisfactory to the Company who is knowledgeable and experienced in financial and business matters and that he or she is capable of evaluating, alone or together with the purchaser representative, the merits and risks of acquiring the Shares; (ii) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company stating that the Participant is acquiring the Shares subject to the Share Award for the Participant's own account and not with any present intention of selling or otherwise distributing the Shares; and (iii) to give such other written assurances as the Company may determine are reasonable in order to comply with applicable law.  The foregoing requirements, and any assurances given pursuant to such
13.5
        
Investment Assurances
requirements, shall be inoperative if (1) the issuance of the Shares under the Share Award has been registered under a then currently effective registration statement under the Securities Act or (2) as to any particular requirement, a determination is made by counsel for the Company that such requirement need not be met in the circumstances under the then applicable securities laws, and in either case otherwise complies with applicable law.  The Company may, upon advice of counsel to the Company, place legends on Share certificates issued under the Plan as such counsel deems necessary or appropriate in order to comply with applicable laws, including, but not limited to, legends restricting the transfer of the Shares.
 
.  To the extent provided by the terms of a Share Award Agreement, the Participant may satisfy any federal, state, local, or foreign tax withholding obligation relating to the exercise or redemption of a Share Award or the acquisition, vesting, distribution or transfer of Ordinary Shares under a Share Award by any of the following means (in addition to the Company's right to withhold from any compensation paid to the Participant by the Company) or by a combination of such means: (i) tendering a cash payment; (ii) authorizing the Company to withhold Shares from the Shares otherwise issuable to the Participant, provided, however, that no Shares are withheld with a value exceeding the minimum amount of tax required to be withheld by law; or (iii) delivering to the Company owned and unencumbered Shares.  The Participant may also satisfy such tax withholding obligation by any other means set forth in the applicable Share Award Agreement.
13.6
        
Withholding Obligations
 
.  If any change is made in the Ordinary Shares subject to the Plan, or subject to any Share Award, without the receipt of consideration by the Company (through merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, reincorporation, share dividend, spinoff, dividend in property other than cash, share split, liquidating dividend, extraordinary dividends or distributions, combination of shares, exchange of shares, change in corporate structure or other transaction not involving the receipt of consideration by the Company), the Plan may be appropriately adjusted in the class(es) and maximum number of securities subject to the Plan or to grants of Full-Value Share Awards pursuant to Section 4.1 above, the maximum number of securities subject to award to any person pursuant to Sections 5.3 or 5.4 above, and the number of securities subject to the option grants to Eligible Directors under Section 7 of the Plan, and the outstanding Share Awards may be appropriately adjusted in the class(es) and number of securities and price per share of the securities subject to such outstanding Share Awards.  The Board may make such adjustments in its sole discretion, and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.  (The conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as a transaction "without receipt of consideration" by the Company.)
14.1
        
Capitalization Adjustments
 
An adjustment under this provision may have the effect of reducing the price at which Ordinary Shares may be acquired to less than their Nominal Value (the "Shortfall"), but only if and to the extent that the Board shall be authorized to capitalize from the reserves of the Company a sum equal to the Shortfall and to apply that sum in paying up that amount on the Ordinary Shares.
.
14.2
        
Adjustments Upon a Change of Control
 
In the event of a Change of Control as defined in 2.4(i) through 2.4(iv), such as an asset sale, merger, or change in ownership of voting power, then any surviving entity or acquiring entity shall assume or continue any Share Awards outstanding under the Plan or shall substitute similar share awards (including an award to acquire substantially the same consideration paid to the shareholders in the transaction by which the Change of Control occurs) for those outstanding under the Plan.  In the event any surviving entity or acquiring entity refuses to assume or continue such Share Awards or to substitute similar share awards for those outstanding under the Plan, then with respect to Share Awards held by Participants whose Continuous Service has not terminated, the Board in its sole discretion and without liability to any person may (1) provide for the payment of a cash amount in exchange for the cancellation of a Share Award equal to the product of (x) the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value per Share at such time over the exercise or redemption price, if any, times (y) the total number of Shares then subject to such Share Award, (2) continue the Share Awards, or (3) notify Participants holding an Option, Share Appreciation Right, or Phantom Share Unit that they must exercise or redeem any portion of such Share Award (including, at the discretion of the Board, any unvested portion of such Share Award) at or prior to the closing, of the transaction by which the Change of Control occurs and that the Share Awards shall terminate if not so exercised or redeemed at or prior to the closing of the transaction by which the Change of Control occurs.  With respect to any other Share Awards outstanding under the Plan, such Share Awards shall terminate if not exercised or redeemed prior to the closing of the transaction by which the Change of Control occurs.  The Board shall not be obligated to treat all Share Awards, even those that are of the same type, in the same manner.
(i)
           
 
In the event of a Change of Control as defined in 2.4(v), such as a dissolution of the Company, all outstanding Share Awards shall terminate immediately prior to such event.
(ii)
          
 
.  The Board at any time, and from time to time, may amend the Plan.  However, except as provided in Section 14 of the Plan relating to adjustments upon changes in the Ordinary Shares, no amendment shall be effective unless approved by the shareholders of the Company to the extent shareholder approval is necessary to satisfy the requirements of Section 422 of the Code, any New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq or other securities exchange listing requirements, or other applicable law or regulation.
15.1
        
Amendment of Plan
 
.  The Board may, in its sole discretion, submit any other amendment to the Plan for shareholder approval, including, but not limited to, amendments to the Plan intended to satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations thereunder regarding the exclusion of performance-based compensation from the limit on corporate deductibility of compensation paid to certain executive officers.
15.2
        
Shareholder Approval
 
.  It is expressly contemplated that the Board may amend the Plan in any respect the Board deems necessary or advisable to provide eligible Employees with the maximum benefits provided or to be provided under the provisions of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder relating to Incentive Stock Options and/or to bring the Plan and/or Incentive Stock Options granted under it into compliance therewith.
15.3
        
Contemplated Amendments
.  Rights under any Share Award granted before amendment of the Plan shall not be materially impaired by any amendment of the Plan unless (i) the Company requests the consent of the Participant and (ii) the Participant consents in writing.
15.4
        
No Material Impairment of Rights
 
.  The Board at any time, and from time to time, may amend the terms of any one or more Share Awards; provided, however, that the rights under any Share Award shall not be materially impaired by any such amendment unless (i) the Company requests the consent of the Participant and (ii) the Participant consents in writing.
15.5
        
Amendment of Share Awards
 
.  The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time. Unless sooner terminated, the Plan shall terminate on the day before the tenth (10) anniversary of the date the Plan is approved by the shareholders of the Company.  No Share Awards may be granted under the Plan while the Plan is suspended or after it is terminated.
16.1
        
Plan Term
th
 
.  Suspension or termination of the Plan shall not materially impair rights and obligations under any Share Award granted while the Plan is in effect except with the written consent of the Participant.
16.2
        
No Material Impairment of Rights
 
The Plan shall become effective on the date that it is approved by the shareholders of the Company, which approval shall be within twelve (12) months before or after the date the Plan is adopted by the Board.  No Share Awards may be granted under the Plan prior to the time that the shareholders have approved the Plan.  The approval or disapproval of the Plan by the shareholders of the Company shall have no effect on any other equity compensation plan, program or arrangement sponsored by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
 
The law of the State of California shall govern all questions concerning the construction, validity and interpretation of this Plan, without regard to such state's conflict of laws rules.

Exhibit 10.4
 
PURPOSES.
1.
                                      
 
.  The persons eligible to receive Options are the Employees, Directors and Consultants of the Company and its Affiliates.
(a)
          
Eligible Share Award Recipients
 
.  The purpose of the Plan is to provide a means by which eligible recipients of Options may be given an opportunity to benefit from increases in value of the Ordinary Shares through the granting of either (i) Incentive Stock Options or (ii) Nonstatutory Share Options.
(b)
          
Available Share Awards
 
.  The Company, by means of the Plan, which is an amended and restated version of the Company's 2001 Share Option Plan ("Predecessor Plan"), seeks to provide incentives for the group of persons eligible to receive Options to exert maximum efforts for the success of the Company and its Affiliates.  Options granted under the Predecessor Plan shall continue to be governed by the terms of the Predecessor Plan in effect on the date of grant of such award.
(c)
          
General Purpose
 
DEFINITIONS.
2.
                                      
 
"Affiliate" means generally with respect to the Company, any entity directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controlling or controlled by (but not under common control with) the Company. Solely with respect to the granting of any Incentive Stock Options, Affiliate means any parent corporation or subsidiary corporation of the Company, whether now or hereafter existing, as those terms are defined in Sections 424(e) and (f), respectively, of the Code.
(a)
          
 
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
(b)
          
 
"Code" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(c)
          
 
"Committee" means a committee of one or more members of the Board (or other individuals who are not members of the Board to the extent allowed by law) appointed by the Board in accordance with subsection 3(c).
(d)
          
 
"Company" means Seagate Technology plc, a public company incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Ireland with limited liability under registered number 480010, or any successor thereto.
(e)
          
 
"Consultant" means any person, including an advisor, (i) engaged by the Company or an Affiliate to render consulting or advisory services and who is compensated for such services or (ii) who is a member of the Board of Directors of an Affiliate.  However, the term "Consultant" shall not include either Directors who are not compensated by the Company for their services as Directors or Directors who are merely paid a director's fee by the Company for their services as Directors.
(f)
           
 
"Continuous Service" means that the Participant's service with the Company or an Affiliate, whether as an Employee, Director or Consultant, is not interrupted or terminated.  The Participant's Continuous Service shall not be deemed to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Participant renders service to the Company or an Affiliate as an Employee, Consultant or Director or a change in the entity for which the Participant renders such service, provided that there is no interruption or termination of the Participant's Continuous Service.  For example, a change in status from an Employee of the Company to a Consultant of an Affiliate or a Director will not constitute an interruption of Continuous Service.  The Board or the chief executive officer of the Company, in that party's sole discretion, may determine whether Continuous Service shall be considered interrupted in the case of any leave of absence approved by that party, including sick leave, military leave or any other personal leave.
(g)
          
 
"Covered Employee" means the chief executive officer and the four (4) other highest compensated officers of the Company for whom total compensation is required to be reported to shareholders under the Exchange Act, as determined for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.
(h)
          
 
"Director" means a member of the Board of Directors of the Company.
(i)
           
 
"Disability" means the permanent and total disability of a person within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
(j)
           
 
"Employee" means any person employed by the Company or an Affiliate.  Mere service as a Director or payment of a director's fee by the Company or an Affiliate shall not be sufficient to constitute "employment" by the Company or an Affiliate.
(k)
          
 
"Exchange Act" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(l)
           
 
"Fair Market Value" means, as of any date, the value of the Ordinary Shares determined as follows:
(m)
         
 
If the Shares are listed on any established stock exchange or traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market, the Fair Market Value of a Share shall be the arithmetic mean of the high and the low selling prices of the Shares as reported on such date on the Composite Tape of the principal national securities exchange on which the Shares are listed or admitted to trading, or if no Composite Tape exists for such national securities exchange on such date, then on the principal national
(i)
           
securities exchange on which such the Shares are listed or admitted to trading, or, if the Shares are not listed or admitted on a national securities exchange, the arithmetic mean of the closing bid price and per share closing ask price on such date as quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System (or such market in which such prices are regularly quoted), or if no sale of Shares shall have been reported on such Composite Tape or such national securities exchange on such date or quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System on such date, then the immediately preceding date on which sales of the Shares have been so reported or quoted shall be used.
 
In the absence of such markets for the Ordinary Shares, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the Board.
(ii)
          
 
"Incentive Stock Option" means an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder .
(n)
          
 
"Non-Employee Director" means a Director who either (i) is not a current Employee or Officer of the Company or its parent or a subsidiary, does not receive compensation (directly or indirectly) from the Company or its parent or a subsidiary for services rendered as a consultant or in any capacity other than as a Director (except for an amount as to which disclosure would not be required under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act ("Regulation S-K")), does not possess an interest in any other transaction as to which disclosure would be required under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K and is not engaged in a business relationship as to which disclosure would be required under Item 404(b) of Regulation S-K; or (ii) is otherwise considered a "non-employee director" for purposes of Rule 16b-3.
(o)
          
 
"Nonstatutory Share Option" means an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
(p)
          
 
"Officer" means a person who is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder .
(q)
          
 
"Option " means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Share Option granted pursuant to the Plan.
(r)
           
 
"Option Agreement" means a written agreement between the Company and an Optionholder evidencing the terms and conditions of an individual Option grant.  Each Option Agreement shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
(s)
          
 
"Optionholder" means a person to whom an Option is granted pursuant to the Plan or, if applicable, such other person who holds an outstanding Option.
(t)
           
 
"Ordinary Share" or "Share" means an ordinary share of the Company, nominal value US$0.00001.
(u)
          
 
"Outside Director" means a Director who either (i) is not a current employee of the Company or an "affiliated corporation" (within the meaning of Treasury Regulations
(v)
          
promulgated under Section 162(m) of the Code), is not a former employee of the Company or an "affiliated corporation" receiving compensation for prior services (other than benefits under a tax qualified pension plan), was not an officer of the Company or an "affiliated corporation" at any time and is not currently receiving direct or indirect remuneration from the Company or an "affiliated corporation" for services in any capacity other than as a Director or (ii) is otherwise considered an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
"Plan" means this Seagate Technology public limited company Amended and Restated 2001 Share Option Plan.
(w)
         
 
"Rule 16b-3" means Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act or any successor to Rule l6b-3, as in effect from time to time.
(x)
           
 
"Securities Act" means the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
(y)
          
 
"Ten Percent Shareholder" means a person who owns (or is deemed to own pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code) shares possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of shares of the Company or of any of its Affiliates.
(z)
           
 
ADMINISTRATION.
3.
                                      
 
.  The Board shall administer the Plan unless and until the Board delegates administration to a Committee, as provided in subsection 3(c).
(a)
          
Administration by Board
 
.  The Board shall have the power, subject to, and within the limitations of, the express provisions of the Plan:
(b)
          
Powers of Board
 
To determine from time to time which of the persons eligible under the Plan shall be granted Options; when and how each Option shall be granted; what type or combination of types of Option shall be granted; the provisions of each Option granted (which need not be identical), including the time or times when a person shall be permitted to receive Ordinary Shares pursuant to an Option; and the number of Shares with respect to which an Option shall be granted to each such person.
(i)
           
 
To construe and interpret the Plan and Options granted under it, and to establish, amend and revoke rules and regulations for its administration.  The Board, in the exercise of this power, may correct any defect, omission or inconsistency in the Plan or in any Option Agreement, in a manner and to the extent it shall deem necessary or expedient to make the Plan fully effective.
(ii)
          
 
To amend the Plan or an Option as provided in Section 13.
(iii)
         
 
Generally, to exercise such powers and to perform such acts as the Board deems necessary or expedient to promote the best interests of the Company which are not in conflict with the provisions of the Plan.
(iv)
         
 
To adopt sub-plans and/or special provisions applicable to Options regulated by the laws of a jurisdiction other than and outside of the United States. Such
(v)
          
sub-plans and/or special provisions may take precedence over other provisions of this Plan, with the exception of Section 4, but unless otherwise superseded by the terms of such sub-plans and/or special provisions, the provisions of this Plan shall govern.
 
.
(c)
          
Delegation to Committee
 
.  The Board may delegate administration of the Plan to a Committee or Committees of one (1) or more individuals, and the term "Committee" shall apply to any person or persons to whom such authority has been delegated.  If administration is delegated to a Committee, the Committee shall have, in connection with the administration of the Plan, the powers theretofore possessed by the Board, including the power to delegate to a subcommittee any of the administrative powers the Committee is authorized to exercise (and references in this Plan to the Board shall thereafter be to the Committee or subcommittee), subject, however, to such resolutions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as may be adopted from time to time by the Board.  The Board may abolish the Committee at any time and revest in the Board the administration of the Plan.
(i)
           
General
 
.  At such time as the Ordinary Shares are publicly traded, in the discretion of the Board, a Committee may consist solely of two or more Outside Directors, in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code, and/or solely of two or more Non-Employee Directors, in accordance with Rule 16b-3.  Within the scope of such authority, the Board or the Committee may (1) delegate to a committee of one or more individuals who are not Outside Directors the authority to grant Options to eligible persons who are either (a) not then Covered Employees and are not expected to be Covered Employees at the time of recognition of income resulting from such Options or (b) not persons with respect to whom the Company wishes to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code and/or (2) delegate to a committee of one or more individuals who are not Non-Employee Directors the authority to grant Options to eligible persons who are not then subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
(ii)
          
Committee Composition when the Ordinary Shares are Publicly Traded
 
.  The Plan and all determinations, interpretations and constructions made by the Board in its sole discretion and reasonable good faith determination shall not be subject to review by any person and shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons, including all successors and assigns of the Company and an Optionholder, including without limitation, the estate of such Optionholder and the executor, administrator or trustee of such estate, or any receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or representative of the Optionholder's creditors.  The terms and conditions of Options and the Board's determinations and interpretations with respect thereto need not be the same with respect to each Optionholder (whether or not such Optionholders are similarly situated).
(d)
          
Effect of Board's Decision
 
SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN.
4.
                                      
 
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 12 relating to adjustments upon changes in the Ordinary Shares, the maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be
(a)
          
Share Reserve
issued pursuant to Options shall not exceed 100,000,000 Shares, reduced by the aggregate number of Shares issued upon the exercise of Share options granted under the Predecessor Plan.
 
.  If any Option (including a Share option granted under the Predecessor Plan) shall for any reason (i) expire or otherwise terminate, in whole or in part, without having been exercised or redeemed in full, (ii) be reacquired by the Company prior to vesting, or (iii) be repurchased by the Company prior to vesting, the Shares not acquired under such Option shall revert to and again become available for issuance under the Plan.
(b)
          
Reversion of Shares to the Share Reserve
 
.  The Shares subject to the Plan may be unissued Shares or reacquired Shares, bought on the market or otherwise.
(c)
          
Source of Shares
 
ELIGIBILITY.
5.
                                      
 
.  Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Employees.  Nonstatutory Share Options may be granted to Employees, Directors and Consultants.
(a)
          
Eligibility for Specific Share Awards
 
.  A Ten Percent Shareholder shall not be granted an Incentive Stock Option unless the exercise price of such Option is at least one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of the Ordinary Shares at the date of grant and the Option is not exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years from the date of grant.
(b)
          
Ten Percent Shareholders
 
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 12 relating to adjustments upon changes in the Ordinary Shares, no Employee shall be eligible to be granted Options covering more than 15,000,000 Shares during any fiscal year.
(c)
          
Section 162(m) Limitation
 
.
(d)
          
Consultants
 
A Consultant shall not be eligible for the grant of an Option if, at the time of grant, a Form S-8 Registration Statement under the Securities Act ("Form S-8") is not available to register either the offer or the sale of the Company's securities to such Consultant because of the nature of the services that the Consultant is providing to the Company, or because the Consultant is not a natural person, or as otherwise provided by the rules governing the use of Form S-8, unless the Company determines both (i) that such grant (A) shall be registered in another manner under the Securities Act (e.g., on a Form S-3 Registration Statement) or (B) does not require registration under the Securities Act in order to comply with the requirements of the Securities Act, if applicable, and (ii) that such grant complies with the securities laws of all other relevant jurisdictions.
(i)
           
 
Form S-8 generally is available to consultants and advisors only if (i) they are natural persons; (ii) they provide bona fide services to the issuer, its parents, its majority owned subsidiaries; and (iii) the services are not in connection with the offer or sale of securities in a capital-raising transaction, and do not directly or indirectly promote or maintain a market for the issuer's securities.
(ii)
          
OPTION PROVISIONS.
6.
                                      
 
Each Option shall be in such form and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Board shall deem appropriate.  All Options shall be separately designated Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Share Options at the time of grant.  The provisions of separate Options need not be identical, but each Option shall include (through incorporation of provisions hereof by reference in the Option or otherwise) the substance of each of the following provisions:
 
.  Subject to the provisions of subsection 5(b) regarding Ten Percent Shareholders, no Incentive Stock Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date it was granted.
(a)
          
Term
 
.  Subject to the provisions of subsection 5(b) regarding Ten Percent Shareholders, the exercise price of each Incentive Stock Option shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the Option on the date the Option is granted.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Incentive Stock Option may be granted with an exercise price lower than that set forth in the preceding sentence if such Option is granted pursuant to an assumption or substitution for another option in a manner satisfying the provisions of Section 424(a) of the Code.
(b)
          
Exercise Price of an Incentive Stock Option
 
.  The exercise price of each Nonstatutory Share Option shall be not less than eighty-five percent (85%) of the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the Option on the date the Option is granted.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Nonstatutory Share Option may be granted with an exercise price lower than that set forth in the preceding sentence if such Option is granted pursuant to an assumption or substitution for another option in a manner satisfying the provisions of Section 424(a) of the Code.
(c)
          
Exercise Price of a Nonstatutory Share Option
 
.  The purchase price of Ordinary Shares acquired pursuant to an Option shall be paid, to the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations, either (i) in cash or by check at the time the Option is exercised or (ii) at the discretion of the Board at the time of the grant of the Option (or subsequently in the case of a Nonstatutory Share Option) (1) by delivery to the Company of other Shares, (2) to the extent permitted by law, according to a deferred payment or other similar arrangement with the Optionholder, including use of a promissory note, (3) pursuant to a "same day sale" program, or (4) by some combination of the foregoing.  Unless otherwise specifically provided in the Option Agreement, the purchase price of Shares acquired pursuant to an Option that is paid by delivery to the Company of other Shares acquired, directly or indirectly from the Company, shall be paid only by Shares of the Company that have been held for more than six (6) months (or such longer or shorter period of time required to avoid a charge to earnings for financial accounting purposes).
(d)
          
Consideration
 
In the case of any deferred payment arrangement, interest shall be compounded at least annually and shall be charged at the market rate of interest and contain such other terms and conditions necessary to avoid a charge to earnings for financial accounting purposes as a result of the use of such deferred payment arrangement.  In addition, the promissory note documenting
such arrangement shall be a full recourse note and shall be secured by the Shares purchased upon exercise of the Option.
 
In the case of any payment of the purchase price of Shares by delivery of other Shares, if permitted under the terms of the Optionholder's Option Agreement, the Optionholder may, subject to procedures satisfactory to the Board, satisfy such delivery requirement by presenting proof of beneficial ownership of such shares, in which case the Company shall treat the Option as exercised without further payment and shall withhold such number of Shares from the Shares acquired by the exercise of the Option.
 
.  An Incentive Stock Option shall not be transferable except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the Optionholder only by the Optionholder.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if provided in the Option Agreement, the Optionholder may, by delivering written notice to the Company, in a form satisfactory to the Company, designate a third party who, in the event of the death of the Optionholder, shall thereafter be entitled to exercise the Option.
(e)
          
Transferability of an Incentive Stock Option
 
.  A Nonstatutory Share Option shall be transferable to the extent provided in the Option Agreement.  If the Nonstatutory Share Option does not provide for transferability, then the Nonstatutory Share Option shall not be transferable except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the Optionholder only by the Optionholder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if provided in the Option Agreement, the Optionholder may, by delivering written notice to the Company, in a form satisfactory to the Company, designate a third party who, in the event of the death of the Optionholder, shall thereafter be entitled to exercise the Option.
(f)
           
Transferability of a Nonstatutory Share Option
 
.  Options granted under the Plan shall be vested and exercisable at such time and upon such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Board. The vesting provisions of individual Options may vary.  Generally, so long as the Optionholder remains in continuous service with the Company, an Option shall vest and become exercisable over a four year period with respect to 25% of the Shares subject to the Option on the first anniversary of the date of grant and in equal monthly installments of the remaining 75% of the Shares subject to the Option over the next three years.  The provisions of this subsection 6(g) are subject to any Option provisions governing the minimum number of Shares as to which an Option may be exercised.
(g)
          
Vesting Generally
 
.  In the event an Optionholder's Continuous Service terminates (other than upon the Optionholder's death or Disability), the Optionholder may exercise his or her Option (to the extent that the Optionholder was entitled to exercise such Option as of the date of termination) but only within such period of time ending on the earlier of (i) the date three (3) months following the termination of the Optionholder's Continuous Service (or such longer or shorter period specified in the Option Agreement), or (ii) the expiration of the term of the Option as set forth in the Option Agreement.  If, after termination, the Optionholder does not exercise his or her Option within the time specified in the Option Agreement, the Option shall terminate.
(h)
          
Termination of Continuous Service
 
.  An Optionholder's Option Agreement may also provide that if the exercise of the Option following the termination of the Optionholder's Continuous Service (other than upon the Optionholder's death or Disability) would be prohibited at any time solely because the issuance of Shares would violate the registration requirements under the Securities Act or other applicable securities law, then the Option shall terminate on the earlier of (i) the expiration of the term of the Option set forth in the Option Agreement or (ii) the expiration of a period of three (3) months after the termination of the Optionholder's Continuous Service during which the exercise of the Option would not be in violation of such registration requirements.
(i)
           
Extension of Termination Date
 
.  In the event that an Optionholder's Continuous Service terminates as a result of the Optionholder's Disability, the Optionholder may exercise his or her Option (to the extent that the Optionholder was entitled to exercise such Option as of the date of termination), but only within such period of time ending on the earlier of (i) the date twelve (12) months following such termination (or such longer or shorter period specified in the Option Agreement) or (ii) the expiration of the term of the Option as set forth in the Option Agreement.  If, after termination, the Optionholder does not exercise his or her Option within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.
(j)
           
Disability of Optionholder
 
.  In the event (i) an Optionholder's Continuous Service terminates as a result of the Optionholder's death or (ii) the Optionholder dies within the period (if any) specified in the Option Agreement after the termination of the Optionholder's Continuous Service for a reason other than death, then the Option may be exercised (to the extent the Optionholder was entitled to exercise such Option as of the date of death) by the Optionholder's estate, by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance or by a person designated to exercise the Option upon the Optionholder's death pursuant to subsection 6(e) or 6(f), but only within the period ending on the earlier of (l) the date twelve (12) months following the date of death (or such longer or shorter period specified in the Option Agreement) or (2) the expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement.  If, after death, the Option is not exercised within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.
(k)
          
Death of Optionholder
 
.  The Option Agreement may, but need not, include a provision whereby the Optionholder may elect at any time before the Optionholder's Continuous Service terminates to exercise the Option as to any part or all of the Shares subject to the Option prior to the full vesting of the Option.  Any unvested Shares so purchased may be subject to a repurchase option in favor of the Company or to any other restriction the Board determines to be appropriate.
(l)
           
Early Exercise
 
OPTIONS TO NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS.
7.
                                      
 
In addition to any other Options that Non-Employee Directors may be granted under the Plan, each Non-Employee Director of the Company shall be automatically granted without the necessity of action by the Board, the following option grants:
An initial Option to purchase 150,000 Shares, or such lesser number as may be established by the Board from time to time, on the date of his or her initial election as a Non-Employee Director (the "Initial Grant").
(a)
          
 
An automatic annual Option to purchase 50,000 Shares, or such lesser number as may be established by the Board from time to time (which need not be the same for each Non-Employee Director), at an option exercise price equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date immediately following the date of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Company, beginning with the Annual Meeting following the Company's fiscal year ending in 2003 (the "Annual Grant"), provided that the Non-Employee Director has completed at least six months of service as a Director from the date of the Initial Grant.
(b)
          
 
Options granted pursuant to an Initial Grant or Annual Grant generally shall vest over a period of four (4) years, with 25% of the Shares subject to an Option becoming vested and exercisable upon the first anniversary of the date of grant and the remaining 75% of the Shares subject to an Option becoming vested and exercisable in equal monthly installments over the next three years, provided that the Optionholder continues in the service of the Company throughout the relevant vesting period.  In all other respects, Options granted pursuant to an Initial Grant or Annual Grant shall contain in substance such terms and conditions as are allowable under Section 6 with respect to Options as shall be determined by the Board from time to time.
(c)
          
 
COVENANTS OF THE COMPANY.
8.
                                      
 
.  During the terms of the Options, the Company shall keep available at all times the number of Ordinary Shares required to satisfy such Options.
(a)
          
Availability of Shares
 
.  The Company shall seek to obtain from each regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction over the Plan such authority as may be required to grant Options and to issue and sell Ordinary Shares upon exercise of the Options; provided, however, that this undertaking shall not require the Company to register under the Securities Act the Plan, any Option or any Shares issued or issuable pursuant to any such Option.  If, after reasonable efforts, the Company is unable to obtain from any such regulatory commission or agency the authority which counsel for the Company deems necessary for the lawful issuance and sale of Shares under the Plan, the Company shall be relieved from any liability for failure to issue and sell Shares upon exercise of such Options unless and until such authority is obtained.
(b)
          
Securities Law Compliance
 
USE OF PROCEEDS FROM SHARES.
9.
                                      
 
Proceeds from the sale of Ordinary Shares pursuant to the exercise of Options shall constitute general funds of the Company.
CANCELLATION AND RE-GRANT OF OPTIONS.
10.
                                
 
The Board shall have the authority to effect, at any time and from time to time, (i) the repricing of any outstanding Options under the Plan and/or (ii) with the consent of the affected Optionholders, the cancellation of any outstanding Options under the Plan and the grant in substitution therefor of new Options under the Plan covering the same or different number of Shares, but having an exercise price per Share not less than eighty-five percent (85%) of the Fair Market Value (one hundred percent (100%) of Fair Market Value in the case of an Incentive Stock Option or, in the case of a Ten Percent shareholder (as described in subsection 5(b)), not less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value) per Share on the new grant date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may grant an Option with an exercise price lower than that set forth above if such Option is granted as part of a transaction to which section 424(a) of the Code applies.
(a)
          
 
Shares subject to an Option canceled under this Section 10 shall continue to be counted against the maximum award of Options permitted to be granted pursuant to subsection 5(c) of the Plan. The repricing of an Option under this Section 10, resulting in a reduction of the exercise price, shall be deemed to be a cancellation of the original Option and the grant of a substitute Option; in the event of such repricing, both the original and the substituted Options shall be counted against the maximum awards of Options permitted to be granted pursuant to subsection 5(c) of the Plan. The provisions of this subsection 10(b) shall be applicable only to the extent required by Section 162(m) of the Code.
(b)
          
 
MISCELLANEOUS.
11.
                                
 
.  The Board shall have the power to accelerate the time at which an Option may first be exercised or the time during which an Option or any part thereof will vest in accordance with the Plan, notwithstanding the provisions in the Option Agreement stating the time at which it may first be exercised or the time during which it will vest.
(a)
          
Acceleration of Exercisability and Vesting
 
.  No Participant shall be deemed to be the holder of, or to have any of the rights of a holder with respect to, any Shares subject to such Option, including but not limited to Shareholder voting rights and rights to receive dividends with respect to Shares, unless and until such Participant has satisfied all requirements for exercise of the Option pursuant to its terms.
(b)
          
Shareholder Rights
 
.  Nothing in the Plan or any instrument executed or Option granted pursuant thereto shall confer upon any Participant any right to continue to serve the Company or an Affiliate in the capacity in effect at the time the Option was granted or shall affect the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate (i) the employment of an Employee with or without notice and with or without cause, (ii) the service of a Consultant pursuant to the terms of such Consultant's agreement with the Company or an Affiliate or (iii) the service of a Director pursuant to the Bylaws of the Company or an Affiliate, and any applicable provisions of the corporate law of the state or country in which the Company or the Affiliate is domiciled, as the case may be.
(c)
          
No Employment or other Service Rights
.  To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the time of grant) of the Ordinary Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by any Optionholder during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company and its Affiliates) exceeds one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), the Options or portions thereof which exceed such limit (according to the order in which they were granted) shall be treated as Nonstatutory Share Options.
(d)
          
Incentive Stock Option $100,000 Limitation
 
.  The Company may require an Optionholder, as a condition of exercising or acquiring Shares under any Option, (i) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company as to the Optionholder's knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and/or to employ a purchaser representative reasonably satisfactory to the Company who is knowledgeable and experienced in financial and business matters and that he or she is capable of evaluating, alone or together with the purchaser representative, the merits and risks of exercising the Option; and (ii) to give written assurances satisfactory to the Company stating that the Optionholder is acquiring the Shares subject to the Option for the Optionholder's own account and not with any present intention of selling or otherwise distributing the Shares.  The foregoing requirements, and any assurances given pursuant to such requirements, shall generally be inoperative if (1) the issuance of the Shares upon the exercise or acquisition of Shares under the Option has been registered under a then currently effective registration statement under the Securities Act or (2) as to any particular requirement, a determination is made by counsel for the Company that such requirement need not be met in the circumstances under the then applicable securities laws.  The Company may, upon advice of counsel to the Company, place legends onShare certificates issued under the Plan as such counsel deems necessary or appropriate in order to comply with applicable securities laws, including, but not limited to, legends restricting the transfer of the Shares.
(e)
          
Investment Assurances
 
.  To the extent provided by the terms of an Option Agreement, the Participant may satisfy any federal, state, local or foreign tax withholding obligation relating to the exercise or acquisition of Ordinary Shares under an Option by any of the following means (in addition to the Company's right to withhold from any compensation paid to the Participant by the Company) or by a combination of such means: (i) tendering a cash payment; (ii) authorizing the Company to withhold Shares from the Shares otherwise issuable to the Participant as a result of the exercise or acquisition of Shares under the Option, provided, however, that no Shares are withheld with a value exceeding the minimum amount of tax required to be withheld by law; or (iii) delivering to the Company owned and unencumbered Shares.  The Participant may also satisfy such tax withholding obligation by any other means set forth in the applicable Option Agreement.
(f)
           
Withholding Obligations
 
ADJUSTMENTS UPON CHANGES IN SHARES.
12.
                                
 
.  If any change is made in the Ordinary Shares subject to the Plan, or subject to any Option, without the receipt of consideration by the Company (through merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, reincorporation, share dividend, spinoff, dividend in property other than cash, share split, liquidating dividend, combination of shares, exchange of shares, change in corporate structure or other transaction not involving the receipt of consideration by the Company), the Plan will be appropriately adjusted in the class(es) and maximum number of securities subject to the Plan pursuant to subsection 4(a), the maximum
(a)
          
Capitalization Adjustments
number of securities subject to the option grants to any person pursuant to subsection 5(c), and the number of securities subject to the option grants to Non-Employee Directors under Section 7, and the outstanding Options will be appropriately adjusted in the class(es) and number of securities and price per share of the securities subject to such outstanding Options.  The Board shall make such adjustments, and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.  (The conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as a transaction "without receipt of consideration" by the Company.)
 
.  In the event of a dissolution or liquidation of the Company, then all outstanding Options shall terminate immediately prior to such event.
(b)
          
Dissolution or Liquidation
 
.  In the event of (i) a sale, exchange, lease or other disposition of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company, (ii) a merger or consolidation or other transaction in which the Company is not the surviving corporation or (iii) a reverse merger or other transaction in which the Company is the surviving corporation but the Ordinary Shares outstanding immediately preceding the merger are converted by virtue of the merger into other property, whether in the form of securities, cash or otherwise (individually, a "Corporate Transaction"), then any surviving corporation or acquiring corporation shall assume any Options outstanding under the Plan or shall substitute similar share awards (including an award to acquire the same consideration paid to the shareholders in the Corporate Transaction) for those outstanding under the Plan.  In the event any surviving corporation or acquiring corporation refuses to assume such Options or to substitute similar share awards for those outstanding under the Plan, then with respect to Options held by Optionholders whose Continuous Service has not terminated, the Board in its sole discretion and without liability to any person may (i) provide for the payment of a cash amount in exchange for the cancellation of an Option equal to the product of (x) the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value per Share at such time over the exercise or redemption price, if any, times (y) the total number of Shares then subject to such Option, (ii) continue the Options, or (iii) notify Optionholders that they must exercise or redeem any portion of the Option (including, at the discretion of the Board, any unvested portion of the Option) at or prior to the closing of the Corporate Transaction and that the Options shall terminate if not so exercised or redeemed at or prior to the closing of the Corporate Transaction.  With respect to any other Options outstanding under the Plan, such Options shall terminate if not exercised or redeemed (if applicable) prior to the closing of the Corporate Transaction.
(c)
          
Asset Sale, Merger, Consolidation or Reverse Merger
 
AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN AND OPTIONS.
13.
                                
 
.  The Board at any time, and from time to time, may amend the Plan.  However, except as provided in Section 12 relating to adjustments upon changes in the Ordinary Shares, no amendment shall be effective unless approved by the shareholders of the Company to the extent shareholder approval is necessary to satisfy the requirements of Section 422 of the Code, any New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq or other securities exchange listing requirements, or other applicable law.
(a)
          
Amendment of Plan
 
.  The Board may, in its sole discretion, submit any other amendment to the Plan for shareholder approval, including, but not limited to, amendments to the Plan intended to satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations
(b)
          
Shareholder Approval
thereunder regarding the exclusion of performance-based compensation from the limit on corporate deductibility of compensation paid to certain executive officers.
 
.  It is expressly contemplated that the Board may amend the Plan in any respect the Board deems necessary or advisable to provide eligible Employees with the maximum benefits provided or to be provided under the provisions of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder relating to Incentive Stock Options and/or to bring the Plan and/or Incentive Stock Options granted under it into compliance therewith.
(c)
          
Contemplated Amendments
 
.  Rights under any Option granted before amendment of the Plan shall not be materially impaired by any amendment of the Plan unless (i) the Company requests the consent of the Optionholder and (ii) the Optionholder consents in writing.
(d)
          
No Material Impairment of Rights
 
.  The Board at any time, and from time to time, may amend the terms of any one or more Options; provided, however, that the rights under any Option shall not be materially impaired by any such amendment unless (i) the Company requests the consent of the Optionholder and (ii) the Optionholder consents in writing.
(e)
          
Amendment of Options
 
TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF THE PLAN.
14.
                                
 
.  The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time.  Unless sooner terminated, the Plan shall terminate on the day before the tenth (10th) anniversary of the date that the Predecessor Plan was adopted by the Board or approved by the shareholders of the Company, whichever occurred earlier.  No Options may be granted under the Plan while the Plan is suspended or after it is terminated.
(a)
          
Plan Term
 
.  Suspension or termination of the Plan shall not materially impair rights and obligations under any Option granted while the Plan is in effect except with the written consent of the Optionholder.
(b)
          
No Material Impairment of Rights
 
EFFECTIVE DATE OF PLAN.
15.
                                
 
The Plan shall become effective as determined by the Board, but no Option shall be exercised (with the exception of an Option granted under the Predecessor Plan) unless and until the Plan has been approved by the shareholders of the Company, which approval shall be within twelve (12) months before or after the date the Plan is adopted by the Board.
 
CHOICE OF LAW.
16.
                                
 
The law of the State of California shall govern all questions concerning the construction, validity and interpretation of this Plan, without regard to such state's conflict of laws rules.

Exhibit 10.5
 
1.
PURPOSE
                                      
 
The purpose of this Plan is to provide an opportunity for Employees of Seagate Technology plc, an Irish company (the "Corporation") and its Designated Subsidiaries, to purchase Ordinary Shares and thereby to have an additional incentive to contribute to the prosperity of the Corporation. It is the intention of the Corporation that the Plan qualify as an "Employee Stock Purchase Plan" under Section 423 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and the Plan shall be administered in accordance with this intent. In addition, the Plan authorizes the grant of options pursuant to sub-plans or special rules adopted by the Administrator designed to achieve desired tax or other objectives in particular locations outside of the United States, which sub-plans shall not be required to comply with the requirements of Section 423 of the Code or all of the specific provisions of the Plan, including but not limited to terms relating to eligibility, Offering Periods, Purchase Periods, or Purchase Price.
 
2.
DEFINITIONS
                                   
 
shall mean the legal requirements relating to the administration of an employee stock purchase plan under applicable U.S. state corporate laws, U.S. federal and applicable state securities laws, the Code, any stock exchange rules or regulations and the applicable laws of any other country or jurisdiction, as such laws, rules, regulations and requirements shall be in place from time to time.
2.1
"Applicable Law"
          
 
shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
2.2
"Board"
          
 
shall mean the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any reference to a section of the Code herein shall be a reference to any successor or amended section of the Code.
2.3
"Code"
          
 
shall mean the committee appointed by the Board in accordance with Section 15 of the Plan.
2.4
"Committee"
          
 
shall mean the Companies Act 1963 of Ireland.
2.4
"Companies Act"
          
 
shall mean an Employee's base cash compensation and commissions, but shall exclude such items as allowances, differentials, bonuses or premiums such as those for working shifts or overtime, payments for incentive compensation, incentive payments, bonuses, income from the exercise or vesting or the sale, exchange or other disposition of a compensatory share award granted to the Employee by the Corporation or a Designated Subsidiary, and other forms of extraordinary compensation. The Committee shall have the authority to determine and
2.5
"Compensation"
          
(ESPP  JULY 2010)
approve all forms of pay to be included in the definition of Compensation and may change the definition on a prospective basis.
 
shall mean Seagate Technology plc, a public company incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Ireland with limited liability under registered number 480010, or any successor thereto.
2.6
"Corporation"
          
 
shall mean a Subsidiary that has been designated by the Committee in its sole discretion as eligible to participate in the Plan with respect to its Employees.
2.7
"Designated Subsidiary"
          
 
shall mean the date on which the registration statement on Form S-1 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act for the initial public offering of Seagate Technology common stock (the "Registration Statement") became effective.
2.8
"Effective Date"
          
 
shall mean an individual classified as an employee (within the meaning of Code Section 3401(c) and the regulations thereunder) by the Corporation or a Designated Subsidiary on the Corporation's or such Designated Subsidiary's payroll records during the relevant participation period. Employee shall not include individuals whose employment is for less than the specific number of days determined by the Committee as of the "Offering Date." Individuals classified as independent contractors, consultants, advisers, or members of the Board or the board of directors of a Designated Subsidiary are not considered "Employees" by virtue of such station.
2.9
"Employee"
          
 
shall mean the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
2.10
"Exchange Act"
        
 
on a given date of determination (i.e., an Offering Date or Purchase Date, as appropriate) shall mean the value of the Ordinary Shares determined as follows: (i) if the Shares are listed on any established stock exchange or a national market system, the Fair Market Value shall be the closing sales price for a Share (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported) on the date of determination as quoted on such exchange or system on which the Shares have the highest average trading volume, as reported in or such other source as the Committee deems reliable, or (ii) if the Shares are regularly quoted by a recognized securities dealer but selling prices are not reported, the Fair Market Value shall be the mean of the closing bid and asked prices for the Shares on the date of such determination, as reported in or such other source as the Committee deems reliable, or, (iii) in the absence of an established market for the Shares, the Fair Market Value thereof shall be determined in good faith by the Board. For purposes of the Offering Date under the first Offering Period, the Fair Market Value of a share of Seagate Technology common stock shall be the initial price to the public as set forth in the final prospectus included with the Registration Statement.
2.11
        
"Fair Market Value"
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
shall mean the first Trading Day of an Offering Period under the Plan; provided that the Offering Date of the first Offering Period will be the Effective Date.
2.12
"Offering Date"
        
 
shall mean a period of approximately twelve (12) months during which an option granted pursuant to the Plan may be exercised; provided, however, that effective for Offering Periods commencing on or after February 1, 2006, the term "Offering Period" shall mean a period of approximately six (6) months during which an option granted pursuant to the Plan may be exercised.  For Offering Periods that commence prior to February 1, 2006, the Plan shall be implemented by a series of Offering Periods of approximately twelve (12) months duration, with new Offering Periods commencing on the first Trading Day on or after February 1 and August 1 of each year and ending on the last Trading Day in the twelve month period ending on January 31 and July 31 of the subsequent year; provided that the first Offering Period shall commence on the Effective Date and shall end on the last Trading Day on or before January 31, 2004.  Effective for Offering Periods that commence on or after February 1, 2006, the Plan shall be implemented by a series of Offering Periods of approximately six (6) months duration, with new Offering Periods commencing on the first Trading Day on or after February 1 and August 1 of each year and ending on the last Trading Day in the six-month period ending on the next July 31 and January 31, respectively.  The duration and timing of Offering Periods may be changed or modified by the Committee.
2.13
"Offering Period"
        
 
shall mean the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Offering Date of an Offering Period
2.14
"Offering Price"
        
.
 
shall mean a person who is an officer of the Corporation within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
2.15
"Officer"
        
 
or means an ordinary share of the Company, nominal value US$0.00001.
2.16
        
"Ordinary Share"
"Share"
 
shall mean a participant in the Plan as described in Section 5 of the Plan.
2.17
"Participant"
        
 
shall mean this Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated.
2.18
"Plan"
        
 
shall mean the last Trading Day of each Purchase Period.
2.19
"Purchase Date"
        
 
shall mean, with respect to Offering Periods that commence on prior to February 1, 2006, the period of approximately six (6) months commencing after one Purchase Date and ending with the next Purchase Date, with new Purchase Periods commencing on the first Trading Day on or after February 1 and August 1 of each year and ending on the last Trading Day in the six-month period ending on the next July 31 and January 31, respectively; provided that the first Purchase Period shall commence on the Effective Date and shall end at the completion of the seventh complete calendar month following the Effective Date unless otherwise determined by the
2.20
"Purchase Period"
        
Committee. The second Purchase Period of the first Offering Period shall begin on the first Trading Day following the end of the first Purchase Period and shall end on the last Trading Day on or before January 31, 2004. Subsequent Purchase Periods, if any, shall run consecutively after the termination of the preceding Purchase Period.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, effective for Offering Periods that commence on or after February 1, 2006, "Purchase Period" shall have the same meaning as the term "Offering Period."
 
shall have the meaning set out in Section 8.2.
2.21
"Purchase Price"
        
 
shall mean the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
2.22
"Securities Act"
        
 
shall mean a record holder of Ordinary Shares entitled to vote such Shares under the Corporation's by-laws.
2.23
"Shareowner"
        
 
shall mean any entity treated as a corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation, within the meaning of Code Section 424(f), whether or not such corporation now exists or is hereafter organized or acquired by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, which is also a subsidiary within the meaning of Section 155 of the Companies Act.
2.24
"Subsidiary"
        
 
shall mean a day on which U.S. national stock exchanges and the national market system are open for trading and the Ordinary Shares are being publicly traded on one or more of such exchanges or markets.
2.25
"Trading Day"
        
 
3.
ELIGIBILITY
                                   
 
Any Employee employed by the Corporation or by any Designated Subsidiary on an Offering Date shall be eligible to participate in the Plan with respect to the Offering Period commencing on such Offering Date. The Committee may establish administrative rules requiring that employment commence some minimum period (not to exceed 30 days) prior to an Offering Date to be eligible to participate with respect to the Offering Period beginning on that Offering Date. The Committee may also determine that a designated group of highly compensated Employees is ineligible to participate in the Plan so long as the excluded category fits within the definition of "highly compensated employee" in Code Section 414(q).
3.1
          
 
No Employee may participate in the Plan if immediately after an option is granted the Employee owns or is considered to own (within the meaning of Code Section 424(d)) Ordinary Shares, including Shares which the Employee may purchase by conversion of convertible securities or under outstanding options granted by the Corporation, possessing five percent (5%) or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of securities of the Corporation or of any of its Subsidiaries. All Employees who participate in the Plan shall have the same rights and privileges under the Plan, except for differences that may be mandated by local law and that are consistent with Code Section 423(b)(5); provided that individuals participating in a sub-plan adopted pursuant to Section 16 which is not designed to qualify under Code section 423 need not have the
3.2
          
same rights and privileges as Employees participating in the Code section 423 Plan. Eligible Employees may not participate in more than one Offering Period at a time.
 
4.
OFFERING PERIODS AND PURCHASE PERIODS
                                   
 
.  With respect to Offering Periods commencing prior to February 1, 2006, the Plan shall generally be implemented by a series of twelve (12) month Offering Periods with new Offering Periods commencing on the first Trading Day on or after February 1 and August 1 and ending on the last Trading Day in the twelve month periods ending on January 31 and July 31 of the next calendar year, respectively, or on such other date as the Committee shall determine. The first Offering Period shall commence on the Effective Date and shall end on the last Trading Day on or before January 31, 2004. With respect to Offering Periods commencing on or after February 1, 2006, the Plan shall generally be implemented by a series of six (6) month Offering Periods with new Offering Periods commencing on the first Trading Day on or after February 1 and August 1 and ending on the last Trading Day in the six-month periods ending on the next July 31 and January 31, respectively, or on such other date as the Committee shall determine, and continuing thereafter until the Plan is terminated pursuant to Section 14 hereof. The Committee shall have the authority to change the frequency and/or duration of Offering Periods (including the commencement dates thereof) with respect to future offerings if such change is announced at least five (5) days prior to the scheduled beginning of the first Offering Period to be affected thereafter.
4.1
          
Offering Periods
 
.  With respect to Offering Periods commencing prior to February 1, 2006, each Offering Period shall generally consist of two (2) consecutive Purchase Periods of six (6) months' duration, with new Purchase Periods commencing on the first Trading Day on or after February 1 and August 1 of each year and ending on the last Trading Day in the six-month period ending on the next July 31 and January 31, respectively. With respect to Offering Periods commencing on or after February 1, 2006, each Offering Period shall generally consist of one (1) Purchase Period that runs concurrently with the Offering Period. The last Trading Day of each Purchase Period shall be the "Purchase Date" for such Purchase Period; provided that the first Purchase Period shall commence on the Effective Date and shall end at the completion of the seventh complete calendar month following the Effective Date unless otherwise determined by the Committee. The second Purchase Period of the first Offering Period shall begin on the first Trading Day following the end of the first Purchase Period and shall end on the last Trading Day on or before January 31, 2004. Subsequent Purchase Periods, if any, shall run consecutively after the termination of the preceding Purchase Period. The Committee shall have the power to change the duration and/or frequency of Purchase Periods with respect to future purchases if such change is announced at least five (5) days prior to the scheduled beginning of the first Purchase Period to be affected.
4.2
          
Purchase Periods
 
5.
PARTICIPATION
                                   
 
An Employee who is eligible to participate in the Plan in accordance with its terms at the beginning of an Offering Period shall automatically receive an option in accordance with Section 8.1 and may become a Participant by completing and
5.1
          
submitting, on or before the date prescribed by the Committee with respect to a given Offering Period, a completed payroll deduction authorization and Plan enrollment form provided by the Corporation or by following an electronic or other enrollment process as prescribed by the Committee. An eligible Employee may authorize payroll deductions at the rate of any whole percentage of the Employee's Compensation, not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the Employee's Compensation (or such other percentage as the Committee may establish from time to time before an Offering Date) of such Employee's Compensation on each payday during the Offering Period.  All payroll deductions will be held in a general corporate account or a trust account. No interest shall be paid or credited to the Participant with respect to such payroll deductions. The Corporation shall maintain a separate bookkeeping account for each Participant under the Plan and the amount of each Participant's payroll deductions shall be credited to such account. A Participant may not make any additional payments into such account, unless payroll deductions are prohibited under Applicable Law, in which case the provisions of Section 5.2 of the Plan shall apply.
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, in locations where local law prohibits payroll deductions, an eligible Employee may elect to participate through contributions to his or her account under the Plan in a form acceptable to the Committee.  In such event, any such Employees shall be deemed to be participating in a sub-plan, unless the Committee otherwise expressly provides that such Employees shall be treated as participating in the Plan.
5.2
          
 
Under procedures and at times established by the Committee, a Participant may withdraw from the Plan during a Purchase Period, by completing and filing a new payroll deduction authorization and Plan enrollment form with the Corporation or by following electronic or other procedures prescribed by the Committee. If a Participant withdraws from the Plan during a Purchase Period, his or her accumulated payroll deductions will be refunded to the Participant without interest, his or her right to participate in the current Offering Period will be automatically terminated and no further payroll deductions for the purchase of Ordinary Shares will be made during the Offering Period. The Committee may establish rules pertaining to the timing of withdrawals, limiting the frequency with which Participants may withdraw and re-enroll in the Plan and may impose a waiting period on Participants wishing to re-enroll following withdrawal.
5.3
          
 
A Participant may change his or her rate of contribution through payroll deductions only during an open enrollment period or such other times specified by the Committee by filing a new payroll deduction authorization and Plan enrollment form or by following electronic or other procedures prescribed by the Committee. If a Participant has not followed such procedures to change the rate of contribution, the rate of contribution shall continue at the originally elected rate throughout the Purchase Period and future Purchase Periods (including Purchase Periods of subsequent Offering Periods). Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent necessary to comply with Section 423(b)(8) of the Code, the Committee may reduce a Participant's payroll deductions to zero percent (0%) at any time during a Purchase Period scheduled to end during the current calendar year. Payroll deductions shall re-commence at the rate provided in such Participant's enrollment form at the beginning of the first Purchase Period which is scheduled to end in
5.4
          
the following calendar year, unless terminated by the Participant as provided in Section 5.3.
 
6.
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
                                   
 
In the event any Participant terminates employment with the Corporation and its Designated Subsidiaries for any reason (including death) prior to the expiration of a Purchase Period, the Participant's participation in the Plan shall terminate and all amounts credited to the Participant's account shall be paid to the Participant or, in the case of death, to the Participant's heirs or estate, without interest. Whether a termination of employment has occurred shall be determined by the Committee. If a Participant's termination of employment occurs within a certain period of time as specified by the Committee (not to exceed 30 days) prior to the Purchase Date of the Purchase Period then in progress, his or her option for the purchase of Ordinary Shares will be exercised on such Purchase Date in accordance with Section 9 as if such Participant were still employed by the Corporation. Following the purchase of Shares on such Purchase Date, the Participant's participation in the Plan shall terminate and all amounts credited to the Participant's account shall be paid to the Participant or, in the case of death, to the Participant's heirs or estate, without interest. The Committee may also establish rules regarding when leaves of absence or changes of employment status will be considered to be a termination of employment, including rules regarding transfer of employment among Designated Subsidiaries, Subsidiaries and the Corporation, and the Committee may establish termination-of-employment procedures for this Plan that are independent of similar rules established under other benefit plans of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries; provided that such procedures are not in conflict with the requirements of Section 423 of the Code.
 
7.
SHARES
                                   
 
Subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 11, the maximum number of Ordinary Shares, which may be issued pursuant to the Plan shall be forty million (40,000,000) Shares, plus an automatic annual increase (the "Annual Increase") on the first day of the Corporation's fiscal year beginning in 2003 equal to the lesser of two million five hundred thousand (2,500,000) Shares or one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the outstanding Shares on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year, or such lesser number of Shares as is determined by the Board.(1) The maximum number of Shares that may be granted collectively to all Participants within any given Purchase Period is two and one-half million (2,500,000) Shares; provided, however, that unless and until the Board determines otherwise, with respect to Purchase Periods commencing on or after August 1, 2009, the maximum number of Shares that may be granted collectively to all Participants within any given Purchase Period shall be one and one-half million (1,500,000) Shares. If, on a given Purchase Date, the number of Shares with respect to which options are to be exercised exceeds either maximum, the Corporation shall make pro rata allocation of the Shares remaining available for purchase in as uniform a manner
 
(1)  Under this provision, effective for fiscal years commencing on or after fiscal year 2003, the Board has determined that no Shares will be added pursuant to the Annual Increase until further affirmative action is taken by the Board in the future.
as shall be practicable and as it shall determine to be equitable. In no event shall the total number of Shares issued under the Plan exceed seventy-five million (75,000,000) Shares.
 
8.
OFFERING
                                   
 
On the Offering Date of each Offering Period, each eligible Employee, whether or not such Employee has elected to participate as provided in Section 5.1, shall be granted an option to purchase that number of whole Shares, not to exceed one thousand (1,000) Shares (or such other number of Shares as determined by the Committee) which may be purchased with the payroll deductions accumulated on behalf of such Employee during each Purchase Period at the purchase price specified in Section 8.2 below, subject to the additional limitation that no Employee participating in the Section 423 Plan shall be granted an option to purchase Shares under the Plan if such option would permit his or her rights to purchase Shares under all employee stock purchase plans (described in Section 423 of the Code) of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries to accrue at a rate which exceeds U.S. twenty-five thousand dollars (U.S. $25,000) of the Fair Market Value of such Shares (determined at the time such option is granted) for each calendar year in which such option is outstanding at any time. For purposes of the Plan, an option is "granted" on a Participant's Offering Date. An option will expire upon the earlier to occur of (i) the termination of a Participant's participation in the Plan or such Offering Period (ii) the grant of an option to such Participant on a subsequent Offering Date; or (iii) the termination of the Offering Period. This Section 8.1 shall be interpreted so as to comply with Code Section 423(b)(8).
8.1
          
,
 
The Purchase Price under each option shall be with respect to a Purchase Period the lower of (i) a percentage (not less than eighty-five percent (85%)) established by the Committee ("Designated Percentage") of the Offering Price, or (ii) the Designated Percentage of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Purchase Date on which the Shares are purchased; provided that the Purchase Price may be adjusted by the Committee pursuant to Sections 11 or 12 in accordance with Section 424(a) of the Code. The Committee may change the Designated Percentage with respect to any future Offering Period, but not to below eighty-five percent (85%), and the Committee may determine with respect to any prospective Offering Period that the option price shall be the Designated Percentage of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Purchase Date.
8.2
          
 
9.
PURCHASE OF SHARES
                                   
 
Unless a Participant withdraws from the Plan as provided in Section 5.3 or except as provided in Sections 12 or 14.2, upon the expiration of each Purchase Period, a Participant's option shall be exercised automatically for the purchase of that number of whole Shares which the accumulated payroll deductions credited to the Participant's account at that time shall purchase at the applicable price specified in Section 8.2. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation or its designee may make such provisions and take such action as it deems necessary or appropriate for the withholding of taxes and/or social insurance which the Corporation or its Designated Subsidiary is required by Applicable Law. Each Participant, however, shall be responsible for payment of all individual tax liabilities arising under the Plan. The Shares purchased upon exercise of an
option hereunder shall be considered for tax purposes to be sold to the Participant on the Purchase Date.  During his or her lifetime, a Participant's option to purchase Shares hereunder is exercisable only by him or her.
 
 
10.
PAYMENT AND DELIVERY
                            
 
As soon as practicable after the exercise of an option, the Corporation shall deliver to the Participant a record of the Ordinary Shares purchased and the balance of any amount of payroll deductions credited to the Participant's account not used for the purchase, except as specified below. The Committee may permit or require that Shares be deposited directly with a broker designated by the Committee or to a designated agent of the Corporation, and the Committee may utilize electronic or automated methods of share transfer. The Committee may require that Shares be retained with such broker or agent for a designated period of time and/or may establish other procedures to permit tracking of disqualifying dispositions of such Shares. The Corporation shall retain the amount of payroll deductions used to purchase Shares as full payment for the Shares and the Shares shall then be fully paid and non-assessable. No Participant shall have any voting, dividend, or other Shareowner rights with respect to Shares subject to any option granted under the Plan until the Shares subject to the option have been purchased and delivered to the Participant as provided in this Section 10. The Committee may in its discretion direct the Corporation to retain in a Participant's account for the subsequent Purchase Period or Offering Period any payroll deductions which are not sufficient to purchase a whole Share or return such amount to the Participant. Any other amounts left over in a Participant's account after a Purchase Date shall be returned to the Participant.
 
11.
RECAPITALIZATION
                            
 
Subject to any required action by the Shareowners of the Corporation, if there is any change in the outstanding Ordinary Shares because of a merger, consolidation, spin-off, reorganization, recapitalization, dividend in property other than cash, share split, reverse share split, share dividend, liquidating dividend, combination or reclassification of the Ordinary Shares (including any such change in the number of Shares effected in connection with a change in domicile of the Corporation), or any other increase or decrease in the number of Ordinary Shares effected without receipt of consideration by the Corporation, provided that conversion of any convertible securities of the Corporation shall not be deemed to have been "effected without consideration," the number of securities covered by each option under the Plan which has not yet been exercised and the number of securities which have been authorized and remain available for issuance under the Plan, as well as the maximum number of securities which may be purchased by a Participant in a Purchase Period, the number of securities in the Annual Increase, and the price per share covered by each option under the Plan which has not yet been exercised, may be appropriately adjusted by the Board, and the Board shall take any further actions which, in the exercise of its discretion, may be necessary or appropriate under the circumstances. The Board's determinations under this Section 11 shall be conclusive and binding on all parties.
12.
MERGER, LIQUIDATION, OTHER CORPORATION TRANSACTIONS
                            
 
In the event of the proposed liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation, the Offering Period will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed transaction, unless otherwise provided by the Board in its sole discretion, and all outstanding options shall automatically terminate and the amounts of all payroll deductions will be refunded without interest to the Participants.
12.1
        
 
In the event of a proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, or the merger or consolidation or similar combination of the Corporation with or into another entity, then in the sole discretion of the Board, (1) each option shall be assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted by the successor corporation or parent or subsidiary of such successor entity, (2) a date established by the Board on or before the date of consummation of such merger, consolidation, combination or sale shall be treated as a Purchase Date, and all outstanding options shall be exercised on such date, (3) all outstanding options shall terminate and the accumulated payroll deductions will be refunded without interest to the Participants, or (4) outstanding options shall continue unchanged.
12.2
        
 
13.
TRANSFERABILITY
                            
 
Neither payroll deductions credited to a Participant's bookkeeping account nor any rights to exercise an option or to receive Shares under the Plan may be voluntarily or involuntarily assigned, transferred, pledged, or otherwise disposed of in any way, and any attempted assignment, transfer, pledge, or other disposition shall be null and void and without effect. If a Participant in any manner attempts to transfer, assign or otherwise encumber his or her rights or interests under the Plan, other than as permitted by the Code, such act shall be treated as an election by the Participant to discontinue participation in the Plan pursuant to Section 5.3.
 
14.
AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF THE PLAN
                            
 
The Plan shall continue until terminated in accordance with Section 14.2.
14.1
                          
 
The Board may, in its sole discretion, insofar as permitted by law, terminate or suspend the Plan, or revise or amend it in any respect whatsoever, except that, without approval of the Shareowners, no such revision or amendment shall increase the number of Shares subject to the Plan, other than an adjustment under Section 7 and Section 11 of the Plan, or make other changes for which Shareowner approval is required under Applicable Law. Upon a termination or suspension of the Plan, the Board may in its discretion (i) return without interest, the payroll deductions credited to Participants' accounts to such Participants or (ii) set an earlier Purchase Date with respect to an Offering Period and Purchase Period then in progress.
14.2
        
 
15.
ADMINISTRATION
                            
 
The Board shall appoint a committee of one or more individuals to administer the Plan (the "Committee"), which, unless otherwise specified by the Board, shall consist of
15.1
        
the members of the Corporation's Administrative Committee, as constituted from time to time in accordance with its charter, and generally made up of senior members of management from the Corporation's Legal, Finance and Human Resources functions.  The Committee will serve for such period of time as the Board or the Compensation Committee of the Board may specify and whom the Board or the Compensation Committee of the Board may remove at any time. The Committee will have the authority and responsibility for the day-to-day administration of the Plan, the authority and responsibility specifically provided in this Plan and any additional duty, responsibility and authority delegated to the Committee by the Board or the Compensation Committee of the Board, which may include any of the functions assigned to the Board in this Plan. The Committee may delegate to one or more individuals the day-to-day administration of the Plan. The Committee shall have full power and authority to adopt, amend and rescind any rules and regulations which it deems desirable and appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan, to construe and interpret the provisions and supervise the administration of the Plan, to make factual determinations relevant to Plan entitlements and to take all action in connection with administration of the Plan as it deems necessary or advisable, consistent with the delegation from the Board or the Compensation Committee of the Board. Decisions of the Board or the Compensation Committee of the Board and the Committee shall be final and binding upon all participants. Any decision reduced to writing and signed by a majority of the members of the Committee shall be fully effective as if it had been made at a meeting of the Committee duly held. The Corporation shall pay all expenses incurred in the administration of the Plan.
 
In addition to such other rights of indemnification as they may have as members of the Board or officers or employees of the Corporation, members of the Board and of the Committee shall be indemnified by the Corporation against all reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees, actually and necessarily incurred in connection with the defense of any action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with any appeal therein, to which they or any of them may be a party by reason of any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan, or any right granted under the Plan, and against all amounts paid by them in settlement thereof (provided such settlement is approved by independent legal counsel selected by the Corporation) or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding, except in relation to matters as to which it shall be adjudged in such action, suit or proceeding that such person is liable for gross negligence, bad faith or intentional misconduct in duties; provided, however, that within sixty (60) days after the institution of such action, suit or proceeding, such person shall offer to the Corporation, in writing, the opportunity at its own expense to handle and defend the same.
15.2
        
 
16.
COMMITTEE RULES FOR FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS
                            
 
The Committee may adopt rules or procedures relating to the operation and administration of the Plan to accommodate the specific requirements of local laws and procedures. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee is specifically authorized to adopt rules and procedures regarding handling of payroll deductions or other contributions by Participants, payment of interest, conversion of local currency, payroll tax, withholding procedures and handling of share certificates which
 
vary with local requirements; however, if such varying provisions are not in accordance with the provisions of Section 423(b) of the Code, including but not limited to the requirement of Section 423(b)(5) of the Code that all options granted under the Plan shall have the same rights and privileges unless otherwise provided under the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, then the individuals affected by such varying provisions shall be deemed to be participating under a sub-plan and not the Plan.  The Committee may also adopt sub-plans applicable to particular Subsidiaries or locations, which sub-plans may be designed to be outside the scope of Code section 423. The rules of such sub-plans may take precedence over other provisions of this Plan, with the exception of Section 7, but unless otherwise superseded by the terms of such sub-plan, the provisions of this Plan shall govern the operation of such sub-plan.
 
17.          SECURITIES LAWS REQUIREMENTS
 
17.1         No option granted under the Plan may be exercised to any extent unless the Shares to be issued upon such exercise under the Plan are covered by an effective registration statement pursuant to the Securities Act and the Plan is in compliance with all applicable provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including, without limitation, the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, applicable state and foreign securities laws and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares may then be listed, subject to the approval of counsel for the Corporation with respect to such compliance. If on a Purchase Date in any Offering Period hereunder, the Plan is not so registered or in such compliance, options granted under the Plan which are not in compliance shall not be exercised on such Purchase Date, and the Purchase Date shall be delayed until the Plan is subject to such an effective registration statement and such compliance, except that the Purchase Date shall not be delayed more than twelve (12) months and the Purchase Date shall in no event be more than twenty-seven (27) months from the Offering Date. If, on the Purchase Date of any offering hereunder, as delayed to the maximum extent permissible, the Plan is not registered and in such compliance, options granted under the Plan which are not in compliance shall not be exercised and all payroll deductions accumulated during the Offering Period (reduced to the extent, if any, that such deductions have been used to acquire Shares) shall be returned to the Participants, without interest. The provisions of this Section 17 shall comply with the requirements of Section 423(b)(5) of the Code to the extent applicable.
 
17.2         As a condition to the exercise of an option, the Corporation may require the person exercising such option to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Corporation, such a representation is required by any of the aforementioned applicable provisions of law.
 
18.          GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS
 
This Plan and the Corporation's obligation to sell and deliver Ordinary Shares under the Plan shall be subject to the approval of any governmental authority required in
 
connection with the Plan or the authorization, issuance, sale, or delivery of Shares hereunder.
 
19.          NO ENLARGEMENT OF EMPLOYEE RIGHTS
 
Nothing contained in this Plan shall be deemed to give any Employee or other individual the right to be retained in the employ or service of the Corporation or any Designated Subsidiary or to interfere with the right of the Corporation or Designated Subsidiary to discharge any Employee or other individual at any time, for any reason or no reason, with or without notice.
 
20.          GOVERNING LAW
 
This Plan shall be governed by applicable laws of the State of California.
 
21.          EFFECTIVE DATE
 
This Plan shall be effective on the Effective Date, subject to approval of the Shareowners of the Corporation within twelve (12) months before or after its date of adoption by the Board.
 
22.          REPORTS
 
Individual accounts shall be maintained for each Participant in the Plan. Statements of account shall be given to Participants at least annually, which statements shall set forth the amounts of payroll deductions, the Purchase Price, the number of Shares purchased and the remaining cash balance, if any.
 
23.          DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY FOR OWNED SHARES
 
With respect to Ordinary Shares purchased by the Participant pursuant to the Plan and held in an account maintained by the Corporation or its assignee on the Participant's behalf, the Participant may be permitted to file a written designation of beneficiary, who is to receive any Shares and cash, if any, from the Participant's account under the Plan in the event of such Participant's death subsequent to the end of a Purchase Period but prior to delivery to him or her of such Shares and cash.  In addition, a Participant may file a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any cash from the Participant's account under the Plan in the event of such Participant's death prior to the Purchase Date of an Offering Period.  If a Participant is married and the designated beneficiary is not the spouse, spousal consent shall be required for such designation to be effective, to the extent required by local law. The Participant (and if required under the preceding sentence, his or her spouse) may change such designation of beneficiary at any time by written notice. Subject to local legal requirements, in the event of a Participant's death, the Corporation or its assignee shall deliver any Shares and/or cash to the designated beneficiary. Subject to local law, in the event of the death of a Participant and in the absence of a beneficiary validly designated who is living at the time of such Participant's death, the Corporation shall deliver such Shares and/or cash to the executor or
administrator of the estate of the Participant, or if no such executor or administrator has been appointed (to the knowledge of the Corporation), the Corporation in its sole discretion, may deliver (or cause its assignee to deliver) such Shares and/or cash to the spouse, or to any one or more dependents or relatives of the Participant, or if no spouse, dependent or relative is known to the Corporation, then to such other person as the Corporation may determine. The provisions of this Section 23 shall in no event require the Corporation to violate local law, and the Corporation shall be entitled to take whatever action it reasonably concludes is desirable or appropriate in order to transfer the assets allocated to a deceased Participant's account in compliance with local law.
 
.
24.          ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS OF RULE 16b-3
 
The terms and conditions of options granted hereunder to, and the purchase of Ordinary Shares by, persons subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act shall comply with the applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3.  This Plan shall be deemed to contain, and such options shall contain, and the Shares issued upon exercise thereof shall be subject to, such additional conditions and restrictions, if any, as may be required by Rule 16b-3 to qualify for the maximum exemption from Section 16 of the Exchange Act with respect to Plan transactions.
 
         
25.
NOTICES
 
All notices or other communications by a Participant to the Corporation under or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly given when received in the form specified by the Corporation at the location, or by the person, designated by the Corporation for the receipt thereof.
Seagate Technology (US) Holdings, Inc.
Seagate US LLC
Seagate Technology Australia Pty. Limited
Seagate Technology SAS
Seagate Technology GmbH
Seagate Technology (Hong Kong) Limited
Seagate Technology AB
Seagate Technology Taiwan Ltd.
Seagate Technology International (Wuxi) Co. Ltd.
Seagate Technology (Ireland)
Penang Seagate Industries (M) Sdn. Bhd.
Seagate Technology Media (Ireland)
Nippon Seagate Inc.
Seagate Singapore International Headquarters Pte. Ltd.
Seagate Technology (Marlow) Limited
Seagate Technology (Thailand) Limited
Seagate Technology International
Maxtor Technology (Suzhou) Co. Ltd.
Seagate International (Johor) Sdn. Bhd.
Seagate Technology Republic Ireland Limited
Seagate Technology HDD (India) Private Limited
Seagate Technology (Netherlands) B.V.
 
.  The purpose of this subplan under the Seagate Technology public limited company Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Subplan") is to permit eligible contract workers who perform work for the Corporation in the countries designated from time to time by the Committee in its sole discretion and listed on Exhibit A to the Subplan (any one such individual a "Contractor," and collectively, "Contractors") to participate in the Seagate Technology public limited company Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP").
1.
Purpose
                                     
 
.  The terms and conditions of the Subplan shall in all respects be identical to those set forth in the ESPP except as set forth in this Subplan. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Subplan shall have the same meaning as set forth in the ESPP.
2.
Terms of the Subplan
                                     
 
.  For purposes of the Subplan, references to Employees in the ESPP shall include Contractors.
3.
Definition of Employee
                                     
 
.  The Committee shall have the authority in its sole discretion to amend the list of countries on Exhibit A attached to this Subplan as necessary and desirable and for such amendments to take effect as shall be determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion.
4.
Exhibit A
                                     
 
.  Except as set forth above, Contractors who participate under the ESPP shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the ESPP.
5.
Terms of the ESPP
                                     
 
 
.  The purpose of this subplan under the Seagate Technology public limited company Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Subplan") is to set forth requirements with respect to the participation by eligible Employees at Penang Seagate Industries (M) Sdn. Bhd. and Seagate International (Johor) Sdn. Bhd. in Malaysia in the Seagate Technology public limited company Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP").
1.
Purpose
                                     
 
.  The terms and conditions of the Subplan shall in all respects be identical to those set forth in the ESPP, except as set forth in this Subplan. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Subplan shall have the same meanings as set forth in the ESPP.
2.
Terms of the Subplan
                                     
 
.
3.             Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
 
3.1           Notwithstanding Sections 5.1 and 9 of the ESPP, no payroll deductions shall be made and no Shares shall be issued with respect to options held by Participants in Malaysia unless the exercise of such option and the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all applicable provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the requirements of any share exchange upon which the Shares may then be listed, and the Malaysian Employment Act of 1955 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Corporation with respect to such compliance.
 
3.2           The Corporation's obligations to make payroll deductions pursuant to the written instructions of Participants in Malaysia and to issue Shares to Participants in Malaysia under the ESPP are specifically conditioned upon receiving approval in writing from the Director General of Labour of the Ministry of Human Resources in Malaysia authorizing payroll deductions for Participants in Malaysia. Unless and until such approval is granted, the Committee shall have the authority in its sole discretion to extend or terminate Purchase Periods and/or Offering Periods, and to modify or rescind any conditional rights the Corporation or its Designated Subsidiaries in Malaysia may have to receive funds from Participants in Malaysia pursuant to such Participants' written instructions.
 
.  Notwithstanding Sections 5 and 9 of the ESPP, purchases will not be made for Participants in Malaysia with respect to a given Purchase Period unless the applicable Participant has accumulated sufficient payroll deductions during such Purchase Period to purchase at least ten (10) whole Shares.  In the event a Participant in Malaysia has not accumulated sufficient payroll deductions during a given Purchase Period to purchase at least ten (10) 
4.
Minimum Purchase
                                     
 
whole Shares, such Participant will be deemed to have withdrawn from the Plan with respect to that Purchase Period and his or her payroll deductions will be refunded to the Participant without interest promptly following the end of the Purchase Period.
 
.  Except as set forth above, Participants in Malaysia shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the ESPP.
5.
Terms of the ESPP
                                     
 
.  The purpose of this subplan under the Seagate Technology public limited company Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Subplan") is to set forth requirements with respect to the participation by eligible Employees at Seagate Technology (Thailand) Limited in Thailand in the Seagate Technology public limited company Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP").
1.
Purpose
                                     
 
.  The terms and conditions of the Subplan shall in all respects be identical to those set forth in the ESPP, except as set forth in this Subplan. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Subplan shall have the same meanings as set forth in the ESPP.
2.
Terms of the Subplan
                                     
 
.
3.
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
                                     
 
3.1           Notwithstanding Section 9 of the ESPP, Shares shall not be issued with respect to options held by Participants in Thailand unless the exercise of such options and the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all applicable provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the requirements of any share exchange upon which the Shares may then be listed, and the Thai Securities and Exchange Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Corporation with respect to such compliance.
 
3.2           The Corporation's obligation to issue Shares to Participants in Thailand under the ESPP is specifically conditioned upon receiving approval from the Thai Securities and Exchange Commission for the issuance of securities under the ESPP to Participants in Thailand. Unless and until such approval is granted, the Committee shall have the authority in its sole discretion to extend or terminate Purchase Periods and/or Offering Periods, and to modify or rescind any conditional rights the Corporation or its Designated Subsidiary in Thailand may have to receive funds from Participants in Thailand pursuant to such Participants' written instructions.
 
.  Notwithstanding Sections 5 and 9 of the ESPP, purchases will not be made for Participants in Thailand with respect to a given Purchase Period unless the applicable Participant has accumulated sufficient payroll deductions during such Purchase Period to purchase at least ten (10) whole Shares.  In the event a Participant in Thailand has not accumulated sufficient payroll deductions during a given Purchase Period to purchase at least ten (10) whole Shares, such Participant will be deemed to have withdrawn from the Plan with respect to that Purchase Period and his or her payroll deductions will be
4.
Minimum Purchase
                                     
 
refunded to the Participant without interest promptly following the end of the Purchase Period.
 
.  Except as set forth above, Participants in Thailand shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the ESPP.
5.
Terms of the ESPP
                                     
 
.  The purpose of this subplan under the Seagate Technology public limited company Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Subplan") is to set forth requirements with respect to the participation by eligible Employees at Seagate Technology International and Seagate Singapore International Headquarters Pte. Ltd. in Singapore in the Seagate Technology public limited company Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP").
1.
Purpose
                                     
 
.  The terms and conditions of the Subplan shall in all respects be identical to those set forth in the ESPP, except as set forth in this Subplan. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Subplan shall have the same meanings as set forth in the ESPP.
2.
Terms of the Subplan
                                     
 
.  Notwithstanding Sections 5 and 9 of the ESPP, purchases will not be made for Participants in Singapore with respect to a given Purchase Period unless the applicable Participant has accumulated sufficient payroll deductions during such Purchase Period to purchase at least ten (10) whole Shares.  In the event a Participant in Singapore has not accumulated sufficient payroll deductions during a given Purchase Period to purchase at least ten (10) whole Shares, such Participant will be deemed to have withdrawn from the Plan with respect to that Purchase Period and his or her payroll deductions will be refunded to the Participant without interest promptly following the end of the Purchase Period.
3.
Minimum Purchase
                                     
 
.  Except as set forth above, Participants in Singapore shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the ESPP.
4.
Terms of the ESPP
                                     
 
.  The purpose of this subplan under the Seagate Technology public limited company Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Subplan") is to set forth requirements with respect to the participation by eligible Employees at Seagate Technology International (Wuxi) Co. Ltd. and Seagate Technology (Suzhou) Co. Ltd.  in China in the Seagate Technology public limited company Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP").
1.
Purpose
                                     
 
.  The terms and conditions of the Subplan shall in all respects be identical to those set forth in the ESPP, except as set forth in this Subplan. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Subplan shall have the same meanings as set forth in the ESPP.
2.
Terms of the Subplan
                                     
 
.  Notwithstanding Sections 5 and 9 of the ESPP, purchases will not be made for Participants in China with respect to a given Purchase Period unless the applicable Participant has accumulated sufficient payroll deductions during such Purchase Period to purchase at least ten (10) whole Shares.  In the event a Participant in China has not accumulated sufficient payroll deductions during a given Purchase Period to purchase at least ten (10) whole Shares, such Participant will be deemed to have withdrawn from the Plan with respect to that Purchase Period and his or her payroll deductions will be refunded to the Participant without interest promptly following the end of the Purchase Period.
3.
Minimum Purchase
                                     
 
.  Except as set forth above, Participants in China shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the ESPP.
4.
Terms of the ESPP
                                     
 


