FILE:STX/STX-8K-20101014185032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01.       Other Events.
 
On October 14, 2010, Seagate Technology Public Limited Company issued a press release announcing, among other things, that it has received a preliminary indication of interest regarding a going private transaction.  A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
 October 14, 2010  Seagate Technology plc (NASDAQ: STX) announced today that it has received a preliminary indication of interest regarding a going private transaction. The company is in discussions with the party from whom it received the indication of interest, and its board of directors is evaluating the indication of interest and other strategic alternatives. The company has retained Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Perella Weinberg Partners LP to provide financial advice and Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati and Arthur Cox as legal counsel. There is no assurance that the company will receive a formal offer or that any transaction will take place.
 
Neither the company nor its representatives will be providing any additional comments regarding the preliminary indication of interest.
 
About Seagate
Seagate is the world leader in hard disk drives and storage solutions. Learn more at seagate.com.
 
The directors of Seagate accept responsibility for the information contained in this announcement. To the best of the knowledge and belief of the directors of Seagate (who have taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case), the information contained in this announcement is in accordance with the facts and does not omit anything likely to affect the import of such information.
 
Any holder of 1% or more of any class of relevant securities in the Company may from the date of this announcement have disclosure obligations under Rule 8.3 of the Irish Takeover Panel Act, 1997, Takeover Rules 2007 (as amended).
 
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and certain of its associated entities ("Morgan Stanley") and Perella Weinberg Partners LP and certain of its associated entities ("Perella Weinberg Partners") are acting as financial advisers to Seagate and no one else in connection with the matters set out in this announcement and will not be responsible to anyone other than Seagate for providing the protections afforded to the clients of Morgan Stanley or Perella Weinberg Partners, respectively, nor for providing advice in relation to the contents of this announcement or any other matter referred to herein.


