FILE:STX/STX-8K-20110720160911.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On July 20, 2011, Seagate Technology plc (or the "Company") issued a press release and supplemental commentary reporting its financial results for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended July 1, 2011.  The press release and supplemental commentary are attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
The information contained in this report and the attached press release and supplementary commentary is "furnished" but not "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Current Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. When used, the words "anticipates", "believes", "expects", "may", "should" and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date of this Current Report. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties, and other factors may be beyond the Company's control. In particular, global economic conditions may pose a risk to the Company's operating and financial performance. Such risks and uncertainties also include the impact of variable demand; dependence on the Company's ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell its disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements; and the Company's ability to achieve projected cost savings. Information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Form 10-K/A and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 20, 2010, October 6, 2010, November 3, 2010, February 3, 2011 and May 3, 2011, respectively, which statements are incorporated into this Current Report by reference. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and the Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Investor Relations
Contact:
Rod Cooper (408.658.1099)
rod.j.cooper@seagate.com
 
CUPERTINO, CA
 July 20, 2011  Seagate Technology plc (NASDAQ: STX) today reported financial results for the quarter ended July 1, 2011. The company shipped 52 million disk drives and reported revenue of $2.9 billion, gross margin of 19.3%, net income of $119 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.27. On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes the net impact of restructuring, write-down of an equity investment, gain on the sale of one of its facilities, and expenses related to the previously announced transaction with Samsung, Seagate reported net income of $126 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.28 for the quarter ended July 1, 2011.
 
For the fiscal year ended July 1, 2011, the company reported revenue of $11.0 billion, gross margin of 19.6%, net income of $511 million and diluted earnings per share of $1.09. On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes the net impact of loss on redemption of debt, purchased intangibles amortization, restructuring, write-down of an equity investment, gain on the sale of one of its facilities, expenses related to the previously announced transaction with Samsung and tax adjustments related to prior fiscal years, Seagate reported net income of $578 million and diluted earnings per share of $1.24. Additionally, Seagate returned $77 million to shareholders in the form of a dividend and repurchased $822 million of Seagate ordinary shares.
 
"Seagate and the industry are benefitting from the significant demand for storage related to new applications and architectures associated with mobile and connected devices," said Steve Luczo, Seagate chairman, president and CEO. "Because hard disk drive storage is a fundamental technology for cloud service providers, data centers and all other network-based content providers, total industry demand grew almost 40% in fiscal year 2011 to 330 million terabytes. For the June quarter, Seagate's average capacity per drive shipped grew to
Seagate Technology Reports Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2011 Results
approximately 590GB an increase of 39% year-over-year. As more online content and services become available to billions of connected mobile devices, we expect demand for storage capacity to continue to grow and Seagate to benefit from this growth."
 
For reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP results, see accompanying financial tables.
 
Investor Communications
 
Seagate will hold a conference call to review its fourth fiscal quarter and year-end results today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time. The conference call will consist of opening comments from Steve Luczo, CEO, followed by a question and answer session with the executive management team. During today's conference call, the company will provide an outlook for its first fiscal quarter of 2012, including key underlying assumptions.
 
Seagate has issued a Supplemental Commentary document. The Supplemental Commentary will not be read during today's call, but rather it is available in the investor relations section of seagate.com.
 
Dividend
 
The Board of Directors has approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per share which will be payable on August 26, 2011 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on August 5, 2011. The payment of any future quarterly dividends will be at the discretion of the Board and will be dependent upon Seagate's financial position, results of operations, available cash, cash flow, capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.
 
Conference Call
 
The conference call can be accessed online at http://www.seagate.com/investors or by telephone as follows:
USA:  (866) 356-3377
International:  (617) 597-5392
Participant Passcode:  85406145
 
Replay
 
A replay will be available beginning today at approximately 6:00 p.m. Pacific Time. The replay can be accessed from seagate.com.
About Seagate
 
Seagate is the world leader in hard disk drives and storage solutions. Learn more at seagate.com.
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. When used, the words "anticipates", "believes", "expects", "may", "should" and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date of this press release. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties, and other factors may be beyond the Company's control. In particular, global economic conditions may pose a risk to the Company's operating and financial performance. Such risks and uncertainties also include the impact of variable demand; dependence on the Company's ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell its disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements; and the Company's ability to achieve projected cost savings. Information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Form 10-K/A and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 20, 2010, October 6, 2010, November 3, 2010, February 3, 2011 and May 3, 2011, respectively, which statements are incorporated into this press release by reference. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and the Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
 
(a) The information in this column was derived from the Company's audited Consolidated Balance Sheet as of July 2, 2010.
 
 
Use of non-GAAP financial information
 
To supplement the condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company provides non-GAAP measures of net income and diluted net income per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expenses, gains and losses. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of the Company's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, the Company believes non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors as these non-GAAP results exclude certain expenses, gains and losses that the Company believes are not indicative of its core operating results and because it is consistent with the financial models and estimates published by financial analysts who follow the Company.
 
These non-GAAP results are some of the primary measurements management uses to assess the Company's performance, allocate resources and plan for future periods. Reported non-GAAP results should only be considered as supplemental to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and not considered as a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. These non-GAAP measures may differ from the non-GAAP measures reported by other companies in the Company's industry.
 
(A)
 
The fiscal year ended July 1, 2011, included a loss upon the partial redemption of the Company's 10.00% Senior Secured Second-Priority Notes due 2014, the loss upon redemption of its 5.75% Subordinated Debentures due March 2012 and its 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due August 2012.
 
(B)
 
For the three months and fiscal year ended July 1, 2011, the Company recorded restructuring charges associated with previously announced restructuring activities.
 
(C)
 
The fiscal year ended July 1, 2011, amortization of purchased intangible assets acquired in acquisitions was allocated as follows:
 
 
(D) 
For the three months and fiscal year ended July 1, 2011, the Company recorded costs associated with the pending acquisition of certain assets of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
 
(E)  
To exclude the gain on the sale of a facility, which was allocated as follows:
 
 
(F)  
For the three months and fiscal year ended July 1, 2011, the Company recorded a write-down of investment in equity securities.
 
(G) 
To exclude the tax effects, where applicable, of adjustments to GAAP net income. In the fiscal year ended July 1, 2011, the Company recorded discrete tax charges of approximately $14 million primarily as a result of information obtained during the March quarter related to ongoing negotiations with non-U.S. tax authorities on tax positions taken in prior fiscal years.

Exhibit 99.2
 
Seagate Technology plc Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2011 Financial Results
 
Supplemental Commentary
July 20, 2011
 
The information in this written commentary is being provided to the investment community concurrently with our press release to allow additional time for review and analysis prior to commencement of the live call. Please note that these remarks will not be read during the call. The live call will consist of opening comments from Steve Luczo, Chairman, President and CEO, followed by a Q&A session with the executive management team.
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This supplemental commentary contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. When used, the words "anticipates", "believes", "expects", "may", "should" and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements included in this commentary include statements regarding the Company's ability to generate free cash flow on a sustained basis, its ability to declare future quarterly dividends, and its ability to maintain a strong balance sheet and to respond quickly to changing market dynamics. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date of this press release. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties, and other factors may be beyond the Company's control. In particular, global economic conditions may pose a risk to the Company's operating and financial performance. Such risks and uncertainties also include the impact of variable demand; dependence on the Company's ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell its disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements; and the Company's ability to achieve projected cost savings. Information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Form 10-K/A and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on August 20, 2010, October 6, 2010, November 3, 2010, February 3, 2011 and May 3, 2011 respectively, which statements are incorporated into this press release by reference. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and the Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
The Total Available Market ("TAM") for hard disk drives in the June quarter was approximately 166 million units up approximately 4% sequentially and 5% compared to the year-ago quarter. Demand for hard disk drives was strong throughout the quarter while supply constraints related to the Japan earthquake/tsunami appeared to dissipate as the quarter progressed. Demand for Seagate products was especially strong, resulting in record quarterly unit shipments.
 
Units Shipped, Revenue and Gross Margin
 
Seagate shipped 52.3 million units, up 7% sequentially and 12% compared to the year-ago quarter. Revenue was $2.9 billion and GAAP gross margin as a percent of revenue was 19.3%. Excluding the gain on the sale of a facility, non-GAAP gross margin as a percent of revenue was 18.8%.
 
Operating Expenses
 
R&D and SG&A on a GAAP basis totaled $357 million for the June quarter, which includes approximately $13 million associated with expenses related to the previously announced transaction with Samsung. The balance of the increase over the prior quarter is due primarily to costs associated with the company's variable compensation plan. In the first half of fiscal 2011, there were no expenses related to variable compensation.
 
Restructuring
 
Restructuring expense of $4 million in the June quarter, generally reflecting costs associated with previously announced restructuring activities.
 
Other Expense, Net
 
Other income and expense on a GAAP basis was an expense of $61 million. This includes $4 million of interest expense related to the senior unsecured notes issued in May 2011, which was not included in EPS guidance provided on April 19, 2011, and a $5 million write-down of an equity investment.
 
Provision for Income Taxes
 
The GAAP provision for income taxes in the June quarter was $10 million or 8% of income before income taxes. On an annual basis, the expected long-term tax rate continues to be in the 3-10% range before discrete items.
 
Selected Balance Sheet Items
 
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short-term investments totaled $3.3 billion at the end of the June quarter, up approximately $670 million compared to the March quarter. During the quarter, the company issued $600 million of senior unsecured notes due 2021.
 
Cash Flow from Operations was $317 million, Capital Investments were $158 million and free cash flow (Cash Flow from Operations less Capital Investments) was $159 million. Additionally, the company repurchased $112 million of its ordinary shares (6.6 million) and paid $77 million in dividends during the June quarter.
Seagate's inventory at the end of the June quarter was $872 million, an increase of $38 million from the prior quarter.  In aggregate, work in progress ("WIP") and raw materials increased by $30 million, largely due to the expected unit volume increases for the September 2011 quarter. Inventory turns were within the Company's targeted operating range.
Seagate provides data and commentary for the following major market categories 1] Enterprise, 2] Client Compute, and 3] Client non-Compute. A disk drive is associated with one of these three market categories based on how it is configured. For example, if a customer buys a standard 2.5-inch ATA drive from Seagate, this would be included in the Client Compute category regardless of the application into which the drive is ultimately integrated. The Client non-Compute category only contains drives specifically designed or configured for non-compute applications.
 
All references to unit TAMs by market is Seagate's best estimate based on preliminary shipment information and is subject to change.
 
Enterprise Market
 
The TAM for enterprise class disk drives, which includes disk drives for both mission critical and business critical applications, was approximately 14.7 million units in the June quarter, up 20% over the year-ago quarter. Mission critical products continue to represent the bulk of the TAM at over 8 million units. Seagate shipped 5.1 million drives for mission critical server and storage applications and 2.7 million drives for business critical applications, representing an 8% and a 46% increase year-over-year, respectively.
 
Client Compute Market
 
The TAM for client compute disk drives, which includes disk drives designed for use in mobile and desktop computers, was approximately 121 million units, up 2% year-over-year. The mobile TAM was approximately 69 million units, and the desktop TAM was approximately 52 million units.
 
Seagate shipped 35.5 million client compute disk drives in the June quarter. Mobile drives accounted for 14.7 million units, up 21% year-over-year and desktop drives accounted for 20.7 million units, up 6% year-over-year.
 
Inventory of Seagate 3.5-inch ATA (desktop) disk drives in the distribution channel at the end of the quarter was below Seagate's targeted range of 4-6 weeks.
 
Client non-Compute Market
 
The client non-compute market consists of disk drives specifically configured for consumer electronic ("CE") applications plus Seagate branded products sold at retail. The June quarter TAM for the non-compute market was approximately 30 million disk drives, comprised of 17 million CE drives and 13 million units of external branded products
.
In the June quarter, Seagate shipped 5.4 million CE disk drives, a decrease of 8% year-over-year and 3.5 million Seagate branded storage products, up 36% year-over-year.
Products and Technology
 
Seagate has not executed to plan on its expected volume transitions for certain products launched in fiscal 2011. The delay in achieving time-to-maturity for these products resulted in higher scrap costs and inefficiently utilized manufacturing resources during the June quarter. Currently, it is expected that meaningful cost reductions associated with these new products will be realized in the second half of fiscal 2012.
 
New product and technology introductions included:
 
      Seagate announced and began shipping the world's first wireless storage product for iOS, Android and other mobile devices. GoFlex Satellite delivers 500GB of wireless streaming to capacity constrained tablets and smartphones.
GoFlex Satellite:
 
      Seagate began volume shipments of its ultra-slim (9mm) 2.5inch external drive designed for the latest trend of portable, thin, stylish laptops and netbooks.
GoFlex Slim:
 
      : Seagate broke the areal density barrier by achieving 1TB/disk on a 3.5-inch platter, or 625 gigabits per square inch. This platform was productized on Seagate's GoFlex Desk product line during the June quarter and will soon be released on its Barracuda line of desktop products.
1 Terabyte per Disk


