FILE:STX/STX-8K-20110504170041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01      Other Events.
 
On May 4, 2011, Seagate Technology plc (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the pricing of its offering of 7.000% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2021 to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A and in offshore transactions pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. A copy of this press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Current Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the proposed offering of the Notes and the anticipated use of proceeds therefrom. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date of this Current Report. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the Company's control. In particular, global economic conditions may pose a risk to our operating and financial performance as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to uncertain financial conditions. Such risks and uncertainties also include, but are not limited to, the impact of the variable demand; the possible impact of natural disasters, such as were recently experienced in Japan, on our sources of supply or on end demand for our products; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly our new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the risk that our recently announced transaction with Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. will not be consummated and the risk that we will incur significant costs in connection with the transaction; the impact of competitive product announcements and our ability to achieve projected cost savings.
Information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's Quarterly Report
s on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 3, 2010, February 3, 2011 and May 3, 2011, our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on August 20, 2010 and Amendment No. 1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on October 6, 2010,
respectively, which statements are incorporated into this Current Report by reference.
These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and the Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: May 4, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
SCOTTS VALLEY, CA
 May 4, 2011  Seagate Technology plc (NASDAQ: STX) today announced the pricing of its previously announced offering of $600 million aggregate principal amount of 7.000% senior notes due 2021 (the "Notes"). The Notes were priced at 100% of the aggregate principal amount and will bear interest at a rate of 7.000% per annum. The Notes will be issued by Seagate HDD Cayman, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Seagate Technology plc, and guaranteed by Seagate Technology plc.
 
The Notes are being sold in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The sale of the Notes is expected to close on May 18, 2011, subject to customary closing conditions.
 
Seagate estimates that the net proceeds from the offering will be approximately $587 million after deducting discounts and estimated offering expenses.
 
Seagate intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes for general corporate purposes, which may include, but are not limited to, the repayment, redemption and/or repurchase of a portion of its outstanding indebtedness, capital expenditures and investments in its business.
 
About Seagate
 
Seagate is the world leader in hard disk drives and storage solutions.
 
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the Notes nor shall there be any sale of the Notes in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.  The Notes to be offered have not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act, or applicable state securities laws, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or pursuant to an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 and applicable state securities laws.
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements related to the proposed offering of the Notes and the anticipated use of proceeds therefrom. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date of this press release. Current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the Company's control. In particular, global economic conditions may pose a risk to our operating and financial performance as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to uncertain financial conditions. Such risks and uncertainties also include, but are not limited to, the impact of the variable demand; the possible impact of natural disasters, such as were recently experienced in Japan, on our sources of supply or on end demand for our products; dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell our disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly our new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the risk that our recently announced transaction with Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. will not be consummated and the risk that we will incur significant costs in connection with the transaction; the impact of competitive product announcements and our ability to achieve projected cost savings.
Information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's Quarterly Report
s on Form 10-Q as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 3, 2010, February 3, 2011 and May 3, 2011, our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on August 20, 2010 and Amendment No. 1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on October 6, 2010,
respectively, which statements are incorporated into this press release by reference.
These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and the Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 
 


