FILE:STX/STX-8K-20111121210254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On November 21, 2011, Seagate Technology plc issued a press release announcing an arbitration award. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K including the exhibit hereto is "furnished" but shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of such section.
 
Item 9.01
         
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect to the Company's intent to seek court confirmation of the arbitration award through a judgment to be entered by the Hennepin County District Court. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date of this report. Current expectations and assumptions involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors, such as the ultimate outcome of the referenced arbitration, whether a judgment will be entered in the Company's favor and the amount of any such judgment that may be entered, may be beyond the Company's control.
 
These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and the Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date: November 21, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
CUPERTINO, CA
 November 21, 2011  Seagate Technology today reported that, on November 18, 2011, an arbitrator in a binding arbitration in Minnesota issued an interim award that Seagate is entitled to recover compensatory damages of $525 million, plus pre-award interest on the compensatory damage award at the rate of 10% per year, from Western Digital Corporation and a Western Digital employee who was formerly employed by Seagate, in a case involving claims for trade secret misappropriation, breach of contract and other related claims.
 
The arbitrator has requested additional briefing from the parties regarding the amount of the pre-award interest.  Upon determination of the amount of pre-award interest, the arbitrator will issue a final award.  After the arbitrator issues the final award, Seagate will request that the Hennepin County District Court of Minnesota (the "Court") confirm the arbitration award and enter judgment in the amount of the final award.
 
This matter began as a lawsuit filed by Seagate against Western Digital and its employee in the Court in October 2006.  In September 2007, the Court ordered that the lawsuit be stayed pending arbitration.
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect to the Company's intent to seek court confirmation of the arbitration award through a judgment to be entered by the Hennepin County District Court. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date of this press release. Current expectations and assumptions involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors, such as the ultimate outcome of the referenced arbitration, whether a judgment will be entered in the Company's favor and the amount of any such judgment that may be entered, may be beyond the Company's control.
 
These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and the Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 


