FILE:STX/STX-8K-20121129172820.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
The Board of Directors of Seagate Technology plc (the "Company") declared a cash dividend on the Company's outstanding ordinary shares.  The dividend of $.38 per share declared on November 29, 2012, is payable on December 28, 2012, to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 14, 2012. The press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K including the exhibit hereto is "furnished" and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of such section.
 
Item 9.01      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Current Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, including, in particular, statements about our plans, strategies and prospects and estimates of industry growth for the fiscal quarter ending December 28, 2012 and beyond. These statements identify prospective information and include words such as "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "projects" and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date of this Current report and are based on management's current views and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are conditioned upon and also involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties, and other factors may be beyond the Company's control and may pose a risk to our operating and financial condition. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to; the uncertainty in global economic conditions as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and financial news, the impact of the variable demand and the adverse pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; dependence on the Company's ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell its disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements; and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; the Company's ability to achieve projected cost savings in connection with restructuring plans and the risk that we will incur significant incremental costs in connection with the implementation of our recently executed transaction with Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd or that we will not achieve the benefits expected from such transactions. Information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 2012 which statements are incorporated into this Current report by reference. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and the Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 29, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
CUPERTINO,
Calif. November 29, 2012  Seagate Technology plc (NASDAQ: STX) today announced that the Board of Directors has approved a quarterly cash dividend for its second fiscal quarter 2013 of $0.38 per share. The dividend is payable December 28, 2012 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 14, 2012.
 
In addition the Board noted that due to potential tax law changes, the February 2013 dividend payable date has been accelerated for this quarter only.
 
"Seagate is confident in its ability to generate strong and sustainable operating cash flow. The increase in our quarterly dividend payment reflects our commitment to returning capital to our shareholders while also continuing to invest in our business." said Steve Luczo, Seagate chairman and chief executive officer.
 
About Seagate
Seagate is a world leader in hard disk drives and storage solutions. Learn more at www.seagate.com.
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, including, in particular, statements about our plans, strategies and prospects and estimates of industry growth for the fiscal quarter ending December 28, 2012 and beyond. These statements identify prospective information and include words such as "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "projects" and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date of this document and are based on management's current views and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are conditioned upon and also involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties, and other factors may be beyond the Company's control and may pose a risk to our operating and financial condition. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to; the uncertainty in global economic conditions as consumers and businesses may defer purchases in response to tighter credit and financial news, the impact of the variable demand and the adverse pricing environment for disk drives, particularly in view of current business and economic conditions; dependence on the Company's ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell its disk drive products in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; the impact of competitive product announcements; and possible excess industry supply with respect to particular disk drive products; the Company's ability to achieve projected cost savings in connection with restructuring plans and the risk that we will incur significant incremental costs in connection with the implementation of our recently executed transaction with Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd or that we will not achieve the benefits expected from such transactions. Information concerning risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 2012 which statements are incorporated into this document by reference. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any subsequent date and the Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were made.
 


