Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. On January 16, 2002, the Company announced its intention to dispose of the operations of Fingerhut, including the Arizona Mail Order, Figis and Popular Club Plan businesses conducted by its subsidiaries. The decision to dispose of these operations was based on managements determination that there was no longer any strategic value to Federated in retaining them and there was no expectation, based on historical earnings and future prospects, that they would contribute meaningfully to the Companys future financial performance. The plan of disposition approved by the Companys board of directors contemplated a disposal by liquidation of the Fingerhut core catalog operations and a disposal by sale of Fingerhuts three catalog subsidiaries, Arizona Mail Order, Figis and Popular Club Plan. The Company was open to a sale of the Fingerhut core catalogue operations but such outcome was deemed to be unlikely in light of the recent performance of, and prospects for, these operations and because the Company had tentatively explored a sale of these operations in the past without success. After the Companys announcement, a few parties indicated an interest in possibly acquiring Fingerhut as a going concern. Although the Company has entered into a non binding letter of intent with one of these parties, there can be no assurance a sale will be consummated. The Company intends to remain committed to carrying out its original plan to dispose of Fingerhuts core catalog operations through liquidation, if no sale can be consummated, and to dispose of the three subsidiaries by sale as going concerns. The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods account for Fingerhut as a discontinued operation, as a result of the Companys decision to dispose of the Fingerhut operations. Unless otherwise indicated, the following discussion relates to the Companys continuing operations. On July 9, 2001, the Company completed its acquisition of Liberty House, Inc. (Liberty House), a department store retailer operating 11 department stores and seven resort and specialty stores in Hawaii and one department store in Guam. The total purchase price of the Liberty House acquisition was approximately $200 million, consisting of approximately $183 million of cash and the assumption of approximately $17 million of indebtedness. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, the results of operations of Liberty House have been included in the Companys results of operations from the date of acquisition and the purchase price has been allocated to Liberty Houses assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values as of that date. All Liberty House stores were subsequently converted to Macys stores. On February 2, 2001, the Company decided to close its Sterns department store division, and to convert most of its Sterns stores to Macys and Bloomingdales stores, in order to expand and strengthen Macys and Bloomingdales. Also, on November 29, 2001, the Company announced the reorganization of its department store related catalog and e commerce operations to conduct its continuing Internet and catalog business exclusively through macys.com and Bloomingdales By Mail. In the near term, these actions are expected to have a negative impact on net sales and operating income, but in the longer term all of these actions are expected to positively affect operating income and cash flows from operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following discussion contains forward looking statements that reflect the Companys plans, estimates and beliefs. The Companys actual results could materially differ from those discussed in these forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, particularly in Forward Looking Statements. Results of Operations Comparison of the 52 weeks ended February 2, 2002 and the 53 weeks ended February 3, 2001. The net loss for 2001 was $276 million compared to a net loss of $184 million for 2000. Net sales for 2001 totaled $15,651 million, compared to net sales of $16,638 million for 2000, a decrease of 5.9%. The sales decrease reflects a weak economy, the events of September 11th and the closing of Sterns. The overall sales trend was disappointing, particularly in such categories as mens, tabletop (china, silver, glass) and luggage. However, sales were relatively 6 Table of Contents strong in private brands, juniors and young mens. On a comparable store basis (sales from stores in operation throughout 2000 and 2001, including Sterns stores in operation throughout the first quarter of 2000 and 2001, and adjusting for the impact of the 53rd week in 2000), net sales for 2001 decreased 5.3% compared to 2000. Cost of sales was 61.2% of net sales for 2001, compared to 59.8% for 2000. Cost of sales as a percent of net sales, excluding the $53 million of inventory valuation adjustments, was 60.9% in 2001, reflecting higher markdowns taken in 2001 which were needed, given the large decline in sales, to reduce inventories to more appropriate levels, particularly in fashion apparel categories. The Company ended 2001 with inventories down 7%, compared to 2000, which should position the Company well for future gross margin improvement. The valuation of merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either period. Selling, general and administrative (SGA) expenses were 30.7% of net sales for 2001, compared to 29.5% for 2000. SGA expenses decreased 2.2% in actual dollars compared to 2000, however, due to the lower sales level, SGA expenses increased 1.2 percentage points as a percent of net sales. The Company was able to reduce total selling expenses, although not enough to compensate for the sales decrease. Additionally, an increase in relatively fixed costs, such as depreciation and amortization, utilities, etc., contributed greatly to the higher SGA expense rate. Finance charge income was $361 million for 2001, up from $349 million in 2000, primarily due to the growth in average accounts receivable balances. Amounts charged to expense for doubtful accounts receivable were $128 million for 2001, compared to $106 million in 2000, also due to the growth in average accounts receivable balances. During 2001, the Company incurred asset impairment and restructuring charges related to its department store business. These costs related primarily to the closing of its Sterns department store division and subsequent integration into its Macys and Bloomingdales operations, the acquisition of Liberty House and subsequent integration into Macys and the reorganization of its department store related catalog and e commerce operations. The Company recorded $215 million of asset impairment and restructuring charges during 2001, including $53 million of inventory valuation adjustments as a part of cost of sales. The $53 million of inventory valuation adjustments includes $33 million related to the Sterns conversion, $17 million related to the Liberty House integration and $3 million related to the catalog and e commerce reorganization. These inventory valuation adjustments consist of markdowns on merchandise that was sold at Sterns, Liberty House or through the Companys catalog and e commerce channels and that would not continue to be sold following the conversion of the Sterns and Liberty House stores and the reorganization of the catalog and e commerce business. The remaining $162 million of restructuring charges includes $38 million of costs associated with converting the Sterns stores into Macys (including store remodeling costs, advertising, credit card issuance and promotion and other name change expenses), $35 million of costs to close and sell certain Sterns stores, $18 million of severance costs related to the Sterns closure, $9 million of Sterns duplicate central office costs, $10 million of costs associated with converting the Liberty House stores into Macys (including advertising, credit card issuance and promotion and other name change expenses), $4 million of Liberty House duplicate central office costs, $40 million of fixed asset and capitalized software write downs related to the catalog and e commerce reorganization and $4 million of other exit costs associated with the catalog and e commerce reorganization. Net interest expense was $324 million for 2001 compared to $321 million for 2000. The Companys effective income tax rate for 2001 differs from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of the disposition of its Sterns subsidiary, state and local income taxes and permanent differences arising from the amortization of intangible assets and other items. Income tax expense for 2001 reflects a $44 million benefit related to the recognition of the effect of the difference between the financial reporting and tax bases of the Companys investment in Sterns Department Stores, Inc. upon disposition. The net loss from discontinued operations includes only the results of the operating segment of Fingerhut (including its three catalog subsidiaries, Arizona Mail Order, Figis, and Popular Club Plan). The net loss from discontinued operations for 2001 was $14 million, compared to a loss of $1,005 million for 2000. The loss in 2000 included $882 million of pre tax charges related to intangible, investment and fixed asset write downs and other costs and expenses associated with the downsizing of the Fingerhut core catalog operations. In 2001, the Company also recorded a $770 million loss related to the disposal of Fingerhut, including $292 million of estimated operating losses expected during the wind down period. A number of factors could result in actual amounts differing from the estimates used in computing the loss on disposal of Fingerhut, including actual collection rates on customer accounts receivable differing from expectations, the real estate environment differing from 7 Table of Contents current market indicators, and acceleration or deceleration in the time frames used to dispose of various assets as well as Fingerhuts three subsidiaries, Arizona Mail Order, Figis, and Popular Club Plan. As a result of these uncertainties, the amount of loss actually experienced by the Company may differ materially from the estimated loss. Comparison of the 53 weeks ended February 3, 2001 and the 52 weeks ended January 29, 2000. The net loss for 2000 was $184 million compared to net income of $795 million in 1999, primarily reflecting the impact of the asset impairment and restructuring charges related to Fingerhut and the announced closure of the Companys Sterns department store division, as discussed below. Net sales for 2000 totaled $16,638 million, compared to net sales of $16,029 million for 1999, an increase of 3.8%. On a comparable store basis (sales from stores in operation throughout 1999 and 2000 and adjusting for the impact of the 53rd week in 2000), net sales for 2000 increased 2.0% compared to 1999. Cost of sales was 59.8% of net sales for 2000, compared to 59.7% for 1999. The valuation of merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either year. SGA expenses were 29.5% of net sales for 2000, compared to 29.7% for 1999. SGA expenses improved 0.2 percentage points as a percent of net sales, principally due to the impact of lower depreciation and amortization expense. Finance charge income was $349 million for 2000, up from $327 million in 1999, primarily due to the growth in average accounts receivable balances. Amounts charged to expense for doubtful accounts receivable were $106 million for 2000, compared to $83 million in 1999, also due to the growth in average accounts receivable balances. During 2000, the Company recorded asset impairment and restructuring charges related to the closing of the Companys Sterns department store division, primarily consisting of the asset write downs associated with the planned disposition of certain of its properties totaling $54 million. During the same period, the Company recorded a write down of $26 million for investments in two companies engaged in complementary businesses as a result of the Companys determination, based on the fact that these companies were experiencing difficulty in obtaining additional financing needed to fund operating expenses and comparisons of their market value to market values of similar publicly traded businesses, that these equity investments were impaired on an other than temporary basis. Net interest expense was $321 million for 2000 compared to $307 million for 1999. The higher interest expense for 2000 is due primarily to the higher level of outstanding borrowings. Income tax expense was $549 million for 2000. This amount differs from the amount computed by applying the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% to income before income taxes because of permanent differences arising from the amortization of intangible assets and the effect of state and local income taxes. The net loss from discontinued operations includes only the results of the operating segment of Fingerhut (including its three catalog subsidiaries, Arizona Mail Order, Figis, and Popular Club Plan). The net loss from discontinued operations for 2000 was $1,005 million, compared to a loss of $30 million for 1999. The loss in 2000 included $882 million of pre tax charges related to intangible, investment and fixed asset write downs and other costs and expenses associated with the downsizing of the Fingerhut core catalog operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal sources of liquidity are cash from operations, cash on hand and the credit facilities, described below. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2001 was $1,372 million, compared to $1,332 million for 2000. Cash provided by operating activities in 2001 reflects the lower income from continuing operations, a decrease in inventories in 2001 as compared to an increase in 2000, a greater decrease in accounts payable, a decrease in income taxes in 2001 as compared to an increase in 2000 and a decrease in accounts receivable in 2001 as compared to an increase in 2000. 8 Table of Contents Net cash used by investing activities was $771 million for 2001, including the purchase of Liberty House. Investing activities for 2001 also included purchases of property and equipment totaling $615 million and capitalized software of $36 million. Investing activities for 2000 included purchases of property and equipment totaling $720 million and capitalized software of $66 million. The Company opened nine full line department stores, three furniture galleries and two bedding stores during 2001. The Company intends to open 11 new department stores, two new home stores and a new furniture gallery in 2002 all before the next Christmas season. The Companys budgeted capital expenditures are approximately $700 million for 2002, $750 million for 2003 and $750 million for 2004. Management presently anticipates funding such expenditures with cash from operations. Net cash used by the Company for all financing activities was $95 million in 2001. During 2001, the Company issued $500 million of 6.625% Senior Notes due 2011 and $500 million of 6.625% Senior Notes due 2008. The Company repaid $1,140 million of borrowings during 2001, consisting principally of $649 million of net short term borrowings, the $350 million 6.125% Term Enhanced ReMarketable Securities and $110 million of 10% Senior Notes. The Company purchased 7.4 million shares of its Common Stock under its stock repurchase program during 2001 at an approximate cost of $300 million. On May 18, 2001, the Board of Directors approved a $500 million increase to the current stock repurchase program increasing the authorization to $1,500 million. As of February 2, 2002, the Company had approximately $600 million of the $1,500 million stock repurchase program remaining. The Company may continue or, from time to time, suspend repurchases of shares under its stock repurchase program, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. Also during 2001, the Company issued 9.0 million shares of its Common Stock and received $267 million in proceeds from the exercise of the Companys Series B Warrants, which expired on December 19, 2001. The Company finances its proprietary credit card receivables, which arise solely from sales originated in the conduct of the Companys retail operations, using on balance sheet financing arrangements. At February 2, 2002, these on balance sheet arrangements included a $375 million on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper program. Under the $375 million on balance sheet commercial paper program, a special purpose subsidiary of the Company issues commercial paper backed by a Class A Variable Funding Certificate issued out of the trust which holds the proprietary receivables. If the subsidiary is unable to issue commercial paper to fund maturities of outstanding commercial paper, it has a liquidity facility with a number of banks which will fund loans in order to repay the commercial paper. The commercial paper investors have no recourse back to the Company. As of February 2, 2002, there was no such commercial paper outstanding. The Company finances its non proprietary credit card receivables, which can arise from transactions originated by any merchant that accepts third party credit cards issued by the Companys FDS Bank subsidiary, using off balance sheet sale arrangements. This facility is currently set to expire in 2002; however, the Company intends to extend it. At February 2, 2002, these off balance sheet arrangements involved the sale by FDS Bank of its non proprietary credit card receivables to a wholly owned special purpose entity (the special purpose entity), which in turn transfers the purchased receivables to a bankruptcy remote, qualified special purpose entity (the trust) in exchange for the securities issued by the trust. Following the transfer of the non proprietary credit card receivables to the trust, the receivables are no longer the assets of FDS Bank or the special purpose entity and no longer appear on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet. Interests in the trust, which are variable and fluctuate with the level of receivables owned by the trust, are represented by Class A, B and C certificates, a required 2% sellers interest and the residual interest. The special purpose entity has sold the interests represented by the Class A and B certificates to two unrelated bank commercial paper conduit programs, but has retained the interests represented by the Class C certificates, the sellers interest and the residual interest. Proceeds from the sale of interests in the trust plus excess cash flow from the trust are used to buy the receivables from FDS Bank. The commercial paper conduit programs have agreed to buy interests in the trust of up to $600 million in the aggregate. At February 2, 2002, the gross amount of receivables in the trust was $630 million, the commercial paper conduit programs held $438 million of interests represented by Class A certificates and $62 million of interests represented by Class B certificates and the special purpose entity held $62 million in interests represented by the Class C certificates, together with the 2% sellers interest and the residual interest. At February 2, 2002, the interests held by the Company through the special purpose entity (of which the Class C certificates are subordinated in right of payment in order to provide credit enhancement for the Class A and B certificates) were valued at $111 million and included in other assets on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet. The assets of the trust consist of the receivables transferred to it by the special purpose entity. The trust is obligated to pay to the 9 Table of Contents holders of certificates from collections on the trusts receivables the principal amount of their investment plus interest. The risk of the trusts collections being inadequate to make these payments in full, which is a function of potential defaults and delinquencies by the obligors under the receivables, is borne first by the Company in respect of its Class C certificates and thereafter by all holders of interests in the trust. Although the value of the Companys interest in the trust may be reduced or eliminated if the trusts collections are inadequate to pay its obligations, the Company has no financial responsibility for the trusts obligations. The non proprietary credit card receivables are not an integral part of the retail business of the Company. The Companys principal motivation in structuring the financing of its non proprietary credit card receivables as off balance sheet arrangements in 1997 was to facilitate comparisons with its principal competitors, which then had no non proprietary credit card receivables. Although certain of the Companys principal competitors began to generate non proprietary credit card receivables after 1997, the effects of such receivables on comparability were mitigated through such competitors utilization of off balance sheet structures and were otherwise not sufficiently significant to cause the Company to alter the structure of its existing financing arrangements. All income from the sale of the receivables to the trust is accounted for in SGA expenses. The Company is a party to a five year $1,200 million revolving credit facility that expires in June 2006 and a 364 day $400 million revolving credit facility that expires in June 2002 (which the Company expects to extend annually). At February 2, 2002, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under either of these facilities, but had $46 million of letters of credit outstanding under the five year facility. The issuance of commercial paper under the Companys $1,600 million unsecured commercial paper facility program will have the effect, while such commercial paper is outstanding, of reducing the Companys borrowing capacity under the Companys $1,600 million bank credit agreements by an amount equal to the face amount of such commercial paper. As of February 2, 2002, there was no such commercial paper outstanding. The credit agreements governing those facilities require the Company to maintain a specified interest coverage ratio of no less than 3.25 and a specified leverage ratio of no more than .62. At February 2, 2002, the Company had an interest coverage ratio of 5.28 and a leverage ratio of .49 (calculated in each case in the manner prescribed by the applicable governing documents). Management believes that the likelihood of the Company defaulting on a debt covenant is not probable absent any material negative event affecting the U.S. economy as a whole. However, if the Companys results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the Company is not in compliance with any of its covenants and the Company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the Companys debt would be in default and callable. 10 Table of Contents At February 2, 2002, the Company had contractual obligations as follows: Obligations Due by Period Within 2 3 4 5 After 5 Total 1 Year Years Years Years Short term debt $ 1,006 $ 1,006 $ $ $ Long term debt 3,808 705 403 2,700 Capital lease obligations 100 12 21 16 51 Operating leases 2,671 162 304 281 1,924 Off balance sheet financings 500 500 Letters of credit 68 68 $ 8,153 $ 1,748 $ 1,030 $ 700 $ 4,675 Management believes the department store business and other retail businesses will continue to consolidate. Accordingly, the Company intends from time to time to consider additional acquisitions of, and investments in, department stores and other complementary assets and companies. Acquisition transactions, if any, are expected to be financed through a combination of cash on hand and from operations and the possible issuance from time to time of long term debt or other securities. Management believes that, with respect to its current operations, cash on hand and funds from operations, together with its credit facilities and other capital resources, will be sufficient to cover its reasonably foreseeable working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements in both the near term and over the longer term. The Companys ability to generate funds from operations may be affected by numerous factors, including general economic conditions and levels of consumer confidence and demand; however, the Company expects to be able to manage its working capital levels and capital expenditure amounts so as to maintain its liquidity levels. The Company also relies on its $1,600 million unsecured commercial paper facility, a $375 million on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper program relating to the Companys proprietary credit card receivables and two off balance sheet asset backed bank commercial paper programs relating to the Companys non proprietary credit card receivables (discussed above) in an aggregate amount of $600 million, for short term liquidity. Access to the unsecured commercial paper program is dependent on the Companys credit rating; a downgrade in its short term rating would hinder its ability to access this market. If the Company is unable to access the unsecured commercial paper market, it has the ability to access $1,600 million pursuant to its bank credit agreements. These bank credit agreements have no material adverse change condition for utilization. The asset backed commercial paper programs are used to finance the Companys proprietary and non proprietary credit card receivables. These programs are extended annually and can be used to finance the receivables as long as the net portfolio yields remain positive. Depending upon conditions in the capital markets and other factors, the Company will from time to time consider the issuance of debt or other securities, or other possible capital markets transactions, the proceeds of which could be used to refinance current indebtedness or for other corporate purposes. Critical Accounting Policies Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company evaluates the collectibility of its customer accounts receivable based on a combination of factors, including analysis of historical trends, aging of accounts receivable, write off experience and expectations of future performance. Delinquent accounts are generally written off automatically after the passage of 210 days without receiving a full scheduled monthly payment. Accounts are written off sooner in the event of customer bankruptcy or other circumstances that make further collection unlikely. The Company reserves for doubtful accounts based on a loss to collections rate. At February 2, 2002, a 0.1 percentage point change in the loss to collections rate would impact the reserve for doubtful accounts by $2 million. 11 Table of Contents Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the last in, first out (LIFO) retail inventory method. Under the retail inventory method, inventory is segregated into departments of merchandise having similar characteristics, and is stated at its current retail selling value. Inventory retail values are converted to a cost basis by applying specific average cost factors for each merchandise department. Cost factors represent the average cost to retail ratio for each merchandise department based on beginning inventory and the fiscal year purchase activity. The retail inventory method inherently requires management judgments and contains estimates, such as the amount and timing of permanent markdowns to clear unproductive or slow moving inventory, which may impact the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margins. Permanent markdowns designated for clearance activity are recorded when the utility of the inventory has diminished. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. When a decision is made to permanently mark down merchandise, the resulting gross profit reduction is recognized in the period the markdown is recorded. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of sales for the period from the last inventory date to the end of the fiscal period. Such estimates are based on experience and the most recent physical inventory results. While it is not possible to quantify the impact from each cause of shrinkage, the Company has loss prevention programs and policies that minimize shrinkage experience. Physical inventories are taken within each merchandise department at least twice annually and inventory records are adjusted accordingly. Long Lived Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges The carrying value of long lived assets are periodically reviewed by the Company whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment has occurred. For long lived assets held for use, a potential impairment has occurred if projected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets. The estimate of cash flows includes managements assumptions of cash inflows and outflows directly resulting from the use of that asset in operations. When a potential impairment has occurred, an impairment write down is recorded if the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds its fair value. The Company believes its estimated cash flows are sufficient to support the carrying value of its long lived assets. If estimated cash flows significantly differ in the future, the Company may be required to record asset impairment write downs. For long lived assets held for disposal, whether by abandonment or sale, an impairment charge is recorded if the carrying amount of the assets exceeds its fair value less costs to sell. Such valuations include estimations of fair values, costs to dispose, and time periods over which to sell the assets. In addition, liabilities arise such as severance, contractual obligations and other accruals associated with store closings from decisions to dispose of assets. The Company estimates these liabilities based on the facts and circumstances in existence for each restructuring decision. The amounts the Company will ultimately realize or disburse could differ from the amounts assumed in arriving at the asset impairment and restructuring charge recorded. Self Insurance Reserves The Company is self insured for workers compensation and public liability claims up to certain maximum liability amounts. Although the amounts accrued are actuarially determined based on analysis of historical trends of losses, settlements, litigation costs and other factors, the amounts the Company will ultimately disburse could differ from such accrued amounts. Pension and Other Employee Benefit Plans The Company, through its actuaries, utilizes assumptions when estimating the liabilities for pension and other employee benefit plans. These assumptions, where applicable, include the discount rates used to determine the actuarial present value of projected benefit obligations, the rate of increase in future compensation levels, the long term rate of return on assets and the growth in health care costs. The cost of these benefits is recognized in the financial statements over an employees term of service with the Company. 12 Table of Contents Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations include managements best estimates of the amounts expected to be realized on the sale or wind down of assets and businesses of the Fingerhut operations as well as estimates regarding the timing of those dispositions. As a result of uncertainties inherent in these estimates, the amount of loss actually experienced by the Company may differ materially from the estimated loss. If the actual loss exceeds the estimated loss, the Company would record the incremental loss in the period or periods in which it is experienced. Currently, assuming that a buyer cannot be found, the Fingerhut core catalog business liquidation is planned for completion during the second or third quarter of fiscal year 2002 and the credit operation liquidation is planned for completion within four years. Fingerhuts other operations, including Arizona Mail Order, Figis, and Popular Club Plan, are anticipated to be sold as ongoing businesses by the end of fiscal year 2002. Included in the loss on disposal, the Company recorded losses related to Fingerhuts core catalog accounts receivable portfolio through the four year wind down period. The calculated loss includes estimates regarding customer payment rates, write off rates, finance charge income, late fee income, and operating expenses, such as collection costs, necessary to carry out the wind down of the portfolio. These estimates were based on a third party offer to purchase the portfolio, historical experience and industry data where available. The estimated loss from the Fingerhut core catalog operations during the wind down period includes assumptions of revenues to be earned and estimated expenses to be incurred based on historical experience as well as through detailed departmental plans regarding the costs necessary to complete the liquidation in the planned timeframe. Losses on inventory were recognized based on estimated recovery values expected to be received from a third party liquidator. Write downs of property, plant and equipment were based on historical recovery rates for similar liquidations of personal property and brokerage quotes, where available, for real estate properties. Other assets, such as tradenames, customer lists, supplies, prepaid expenses, and capitalized software, were written down to estimated net realizable value, which in some cases was zero due to their lack of marketability. The loss on sale of the Fingerhut subsidiaries was estimated using market value quotes from an investment bank, projected net book values of each subsidiary at the expected sale dates, and expenses necessary to disconnect the subsidiaries support functions from Fingerhuts core catalog operations. Severance and retention were estimated based on the current workforce, employment needs through the wind down period, employment agreements where applicable, years of service, and estimated payout based on the general severance and retention plan offered to employees. Remaining lease obligations or contractual cancellation penalties were estimated based on a review of the contract terms in place. Estimated interest expense has been allocated to discontinued operations based upon the debt balances attributable to those operations. New Pronouncements In 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141, Business Combinations, and SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, effective for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 and for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001, respectively. SFAS No. 141 eliminates the pooling of interests method of accounting for business combinations with limited exceptions for transactions initiated prior to July 1, 2001 and broadens the criteria for recording intangible assets separate from goodwill. The provisions of SFAS No. 141 were used as guidance to account for the acquisition of Liberty House. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives will no longer be amortized but will be subject to annual impairment tests. Other intangible assets will continue to be amortized over their estimated lives. 13 Table of Contents Application of the nonamortization provisions of SFAS No. 142, beginning in the first quarter of 2002, is expected to result in reductions to annual goodwill amortization of $28 million and an increase in annual income from continuing operations of approximately $24 million. During 2002, the Company will perform the first of the required impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, and the Company does not anticipate a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Also, in 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. This Statement supersedes SFAS No. 121 but retains many of its fundamental provisions. Additionally, this Statement expands the scope of discontinued operations to include more disposal transactions. The provisions of the Statement are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. The Company does not anticipate that its adoption will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Outlook On February 26, 2002, the Company issued earnings guidance for 2002 and expects to achieve earnings per share from continuing operations of $3.30 to $3.55: 25 to 30 cents a share in the first quarter, 50 to 60 cents a share in the second quarter and $2.45 to $2.65 a share in the second half of the fiscal year, which ends February 1, 2003. Additionally, a comparable store sales increase of 1 to 1.5 percent is forecasted for 2002: down 2 to 3 percent in the first quarter, flattish in the second quarter and up 3 to 3.5 percent in the second half of 2002. In estimating comparable store sales and earnings per share, the Company assumed that general economic conditions and consumer confidence and demand would be such that sales would increase by the forecasted amounts and the rate of growth in operating income would be 0.5 to 1.0 percentage points, with most of the improvement coming from the gross margin rate, since in light of the sales forecasts, it will be difficult to significantly reduce SGA expenses as a percent of net sales. The accuracy of these assumptions and of the resulting forecasts is subject to uncertainties and circumstances beyond the Companys control. Consequently, actual results could differ materially from the forecasted results. 14 Table of Contents 
 
