Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods account for Fingerhut Companies, Inc. (Fingerhut) as a discontinued operation, as a result of the Companys decision to dispose of the Fingerhut operations. Unless otherwise indicated, the following discussion relates to the Companys continuing operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following discussion contains forward looking statements that reflect the Companys plans, estimates and beliefs. The Companys actual results could materially differ from those discussed in these forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, particularly in Forward Looking Statements. Results of Operations Comparison of the 52 weeks ended February 2, 2002 and the 53 weeks ended February 3, 2001. Net sales for 2001 totaled $15,651 million, compared to net sales of $16,638 million for 2000, a decrease of 5.9%. The sales decrease reflects a weak economy, the events of September 11th and the closing of Sterns. The overall sales trend was disappointing, particularly in such categories as mens, tabletop (china, silver, glass) and luggage. However, sales were relatively strong in private brands, juniors and young mens. On a comparable store basis (sales from stores in operation throughout 2000 and 2001, including Sterns stores in operation throughout the first quarter of 2000 and 2001, and adjusting for the impact of the 53rd week in 2000), net sales for 2001 decreased 5.3% compared to 2000. Cost of sales was 61.2% of net sales for 2001, compared to 59.8% for 2000. Cost of sales as a percent of net sales, excluding the $53 million of inventory valuation adjustments, was 60.9% in 2001, reflecting higher markdowns taken in 2001 which were needed, given the large decline in sales, to reduce inventories to more appropriate levels, particularly in fashion apparel categories. The Company ended 2001 with inventories down 7%, compared to 2000, which should position the Company well for future gross margin improvement. The valuation of merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either period. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were 30.7% of net sales for 2001, compared to 29.5% for 2000. SG&A expenses decreased 2.2% in actual dollars compared to 2000, however, due to the lower sales level, SG&A expenses increased 1.2 percentage points as a percent of net sales. The Company was able to reduce total selling expenses, although not enough to compensate for the sales decrease. Additionally, an increase in relatively fixed costs, such as depreciation and amortization, utilities, etc., contributed greatly to the higher SG&A expense rate. Finance charge income was $361 million for 2001, up from $349 million in 2000, primarily due to the growth in average accounts receivable balances. Amounts charged to expense for doubtful accounts receivable were $128 million for 2001, compared to $106 million in 2000, also due to the growth in average accounts receivable balances. During 2001, the Company incurred asset impairment and restructuring charges related to its department store business. These costs related primarily to the closing of its Sterns department store division and subsequent integration into its Macys and Bloomingdales operations, the acquisition of Liberty House and subsequent integration into Macys and the reorganization of its department store related catalog and e commerce operations. The Company recorded $215 million of asset impairment and restructuring charges during 2001, including $53 million of inventory valuation adjustments as a part of cost of sales. The 7 Table of Contents $53 million of inventory valuation adjustments includes $33 million related to the Sterns conversion, $17 million related to the Liberty House integration and $3 million related to the catalog and e commerce reorganization. The remaining $162 million of restructuring charges includes $38 million of costs associated with converting the Sterns stores into Macys (including store remodeling costs, advertising, credit card issuance and promotion and other name change expenses), $35 million of costs to close and sell certain Sterns stores, $18 million of severance costs related to the Sterns closure, $9 million of Sterns duplicate central office costs, $10 million of costs associated with converting the Liberty House stores into Macys (including advertising, credit card issuance and promotion and other name change expenses), $4 million of Liberty House duplicate central office costs, $40 million of fixed asset and capitalized software write downs related to the catalog and e commerce reorganization and $4 million of other exit costs associated with the catalog and e commerce reorganization. Net interest expense was $324 million for 2001 compared to $321 million for 2000. The Companys effective income tax rate for 2001 differs from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of the disposition of its Sterns subsidiary, state and local income taxes and permanent differences arising from the amortization of intangible assets and other items. Income tax expense for 2001 reflects a $44 million benefit related to the recognition of the effect of the difference between the financial reporting and tax bases of the Companys investment in Sterns Department Stores, Inc. upon disposition. The net loss from discontinued operations includes the results of Fingerhut. The net loss from discontinued operations for 2001 was $14 million, compared to a loss of $1,005 million for 2000. The loss in 2000 included $882 million of pre tax charges related to intangible, investment and fixed asset write downs and other costs and expenses associated with the downsizing of the core catalog operations. In 2001, the Company also reported a $770 million loss related to the disposal of Fingerhut, including $292 million of estimated operating losses expected during the wind down period. Comparison of the 53 weeks ended February 3, 2001 and the 52 weeks ended January 29, 2000. Net sales for 2000 totaled $16,638 million, compared to net sales of $16,029 million for 1999, an increase of 3.8%. On a comparable store basis (sales from stores in operation throughout 1999 and 2000 and adjusting for the impact of the 53rd week in 2000), net sales for 2000 increased 2.0% compared to 1999. Cost of sales was 59.8% of net sales for 2000, compared to 59.7% for 1999. The valuation of merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either year. SG&A expenses were 29.5% of net sales for 2000, compared to 29.7% for 1999. SG&A expenses improved 0.2 percentage points as a percent of net sales, principally due to the impact of lower depreciation and amortization expense. Finance charge income was $349 million for 2000, up from $327 million in 1999, primarily due to the growth in average accounts receivable balances. Amounts charged to expense for doubtful accounts receivable were $106 million for 2000, compared to $83 million in 1999, also due to the growth in average accounts receivable balances. During 2000, the Company recorded asset impairment and restructuring charges related to the closing of the Companys Sterns department store division, primarily consisting of the asset write downs associated with the planned disposition of certain of its properties totaling $54 million. During the same period, the Company recorded a write down of $26 million for certain venture capital investments as a result of the Companys determination, based on uncertain financing alternatives and comparisons to their market value or 8 Table of Contents market values of similar publicly traded businesses, that these equity investments were impaired on an other than temporary basis. Net interest expense was $321 million for 2000 compared to $307 million for 1999. The higher interest expense for 2000 is due primarily to the higher level of outstanding borrowings. Income tax expense was $549 million for 2000. This amount differs from the amount computed by applying the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% to income before income taxes because of permanent differences arising from the amortization of intangible assets and the effect of state and local income taxes. The net loss from discontinued operations includes the results of Fingerhut. The net loss from discontinued operations for 2000 was $1,005 million, compared to a loss of $30 million for 1999. The loss in 2000 included $882 million of pre tax charges related to intangible, investment and fixed asset write downs and other costs and expenses associated with the downsizing of the core catalog operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal sources of liquidity are cash from operations, cash on hand and certain available credit facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2001 was $1,372 million, compared to $1,332 million for 2000. Cash provided by operating activities in 2001 reflects the lower income from continuing operations, a decrease in inventories in 2001 as compared to an increase in 2000, a greater decrease in accounts payable, a decrease in income taxes in 2001 as compared to an increase in 2000 and a decrease in accounts receivable in 2001 as compared to an increase in 2000. Net cash used by investing activities was $771 million for 2001, including the purchase of Liberty House. Investing activities for 2001 also included purchases of property and equipment totaling $615 million and capitalized software of $36 million. Investing activities for 2000 included purchases of property and equipment totaling $720 million and capitalized software of $66 million. The Company opened nine full line department stores, three furniture galleries and two bedding stores during 2001. The Company intends to open 11 new department stores, two new home stores and a new furniture gallery in 2002 and its budgeted capital expenditures are approximately $2,200 million for the 2002 to 2004 period, including $700 million for 2002. Management presently anticipates funding such expenditures from operations. Net cash used by the Company for all financing activities was $95 million in 2001. During 2001, the Company issued $500 million of 6.625% Senior Notes due 2011 and $500 million of 6.625% Senior Notes due 2008. The Company repaid $1,140 million of borrowings during 2001, consisting principally of $649 million of net short term borrowings, the $350 million 6.125% Term Enhanced ReMarketable Securities and $110 million of 10% Senior Notes. The Company purchased 7.4 million shares of its Common Stock under its stock repurchase program during 2001 at an approximate cost of $300 million. On May 18, 2001, the Board of Directors approved a $500 million increase to the current stock repurchase program increasing the authorization to $1,500 million. As of February 2, 2002, the Company had approximately $600 million of the $1,500 million stock repurchase program remaining. The Company may continue or, from time to time, suspend repurchases of shares under its stock repurchase program, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. Also during 2001, the Company issued 9.0 million shares of its Common Stock and received $267 million in proceeds from the exercise of the Companys Series B Warrants, which expired on December 19, 2001. 9 Table of Contents In order to facilitate comparisons with major competitors, the Company structured and finances its non proprietary credit card receivables using an off balance sheet arrangement which currently is set to expire in 2002. However, the Company intends to extend the arrangement. Under this arrangement, FDS Bank, a subsidiary of the Company, sells its non proprietary credit card receivables to a wholly owned special purpose entity which in turn transfers the purchased receivables to a bankruptcy remote, qualified special purpose entity (the trust). The special purpose entity has sold interests in the trust to two unrelated bank commercial paper conduit programs. Proceeds from this sale plus excess cash flow from the trust are used to buy the receivables from FDS Bank. The two commercial paper conduit programs have agreed to buy interests in the trust of up to $600 million in the aggregate. These interests are variable and fluctuate with the level of receivables. As of February 2, 2002, the gross amount of receivables in the trust was $630 million, and the bank conduit programs held $500 million of interests. The trust has issued three classes of certificates: Class A, Class B and Class C certificates. The bank conduit programs hold the Class A and Class B certificates and the Company holds the Class C certificates. The Company also holds a required 2% sellers interest and the residual interest in the trust. The Companys interest is valued at $111 million and is included in other assets on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of February 2, 2002. The bank conduit programs held $438 million in Class A certificates and $62 million in Class B certificates as of February 2, 2002. The Company held the Class C certificate in the amount of $62 million, which certificate is subordinate to the Class A and Class B certificates. Beyond the value of the receivables in the trust, the bank conduit programs have no recourse back to the Company. All income from the sale of the receivables to the trust is accounted for in SG&A expenses. The Companys bank credit agreements require the Company to maintain certain financial ratios. At February 2, 2002, the Company was well within these covenants. Management believes that the likelihood of the Company defaulting on a debt covenant is not probable absent any material negative event affecting the U.S. economy as a whole. However, if the Companys results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the Company is not in compliance with any of its covenants and the Company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the Companys debt would be in default and callable. At February 2, 2002, the Company had contractual obligations as follows: Obligations Due by Period Within 2 3 4 5 After 5 Total 1 Year Years Years Years Short term debt $ 1,006 $ 1,006 $ $ $ Long term debt 3,808 705 403 2,700 Capital lease obligations 100 12 21 16 51 Operating leases 2,671 162 304 281 1,924 Off balance sheet financings 500 500 Letters of credit 68 68 $ 8,153 $ 1,748 $ 1,030 $ 700 $ 4,675 Management believes the department store business and other retail businesses will continue to consolidate. Accordingly, the Company intends from time to time to consider additional acquisitions of, and investments in, department stores and other complementary assets and companies. Acquisition transactions, if 10 Table of Contents any, are expected to be financed through a combination of cash on hand and from operations and the possible issuance from time to time of long term debt or other securities. Management believes that, with respect to its current operations, cash on hand and funds from operations, together with its credit facilities, will be sufficient to cover its reasonably foreseeable working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements. Its funds from operations are impacted by the economic environment; however, the Company expects to be able to manage its working capital levels and capital expenditure amounts so as to maintain its liquidity levels. The Company also relies on its $1,600 million unsecured commercial paper facility, a $375 million on balance sheet asset backed commercial paper program relating to the Companys proprietary credit card receivables and two off balance sheet asset backed bank commercial paper programs relating to the Companys non proprietary credit card receivables (discussed above) in an aggregate amount of $600 million, for short term liquidity. Access to the unsecured commercial paper program is dependent on the Companys credit rating; a downgrade in its short term rating would hinder its ability to access this market. If the Company is unable to access the unsecured commercial paper market, it has the ability to access $1,600 million pursuant to its bank credit agreements. Of this amount, $1,200 million is available pursuant to a five year committed agreement which matures in 2006, and the remainder is available pursuant to a 364 day committed agreement, which terminates June 28, 2002, and must be extended annually. These bank credit agreements have no material adverse change condition for utilization. The asset backed commercial paper programs are used to finance the Companys proprietary and non proprietary credit card receivables. These programs are extended annually and can be used to finance the receivables as long as the net portfolio yields remain positive. Depending upon conditions in the capital markets and other factors, the Company will from time to time consider the issuance of debt or other securities, or other possible capital markets transactions, the proceeds of which could be used to refinance current indebtedness or for other corporate purposes. Critical Accounting Policies Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company evaluates the collectibility of its customer accounts receivable based on a combination of factors, including analysis of historical trends, aging of accounts receivable, write off experience and expectations of future performance. Delinquent accounts are generally written off automatically after the passage of 210 days without receiving a full scheduled monthly payment. Accounts are written off sooner in the event of customer bankruptcy or other circumstances that make further collection unlikely. The Company reserves for doubtful accounts based on a loss to collections rate. At February 2, 2002, a 0.1 percentage point change in the loss to collections rate would impact the reserve for doubtful accounts by $2 million. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the last in, first out (LIFO) retail inventory method. Under the retail inventory method, inventory is segregated into departments of merchandise having similar characteristics, and is stated at its current retail selling value. Inventory retail values are converted to a cost basis by applying specific average cost factors for each merchandise department. Cost factors represent the average cost to retail ratio for each merchandise department based on beginning inventory and the fiscal year purchase activity. The retail inventory method inherently requires management judgments and contains estimates, such as the amount and timing of permanent markdowns to clear unproductive or slow moving inventory, which may impact the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margins. 11 Table of Contents Permanent markdowns designated for clearance activity are recorded when the utility of the inventory has diminished. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. When a decision is made to permanently mark down merchandise, the resulting gross profit reduction is recognized in the period the markdown is recorded. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of sales for the period from the last inventory date to the end of the fiscal period. Such estimates are based on experience and the most recent physical inventory results. While it is not possible to quantify the impact from each cause of shrinkage, the Company has loss prevention programs and policies that minimize shrinkage experience. Physical inventories are taken within each merchandise department at least twice annually and inventory records are adjusted accordingly. Long Lived Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges The carrying value of long lived assets are periodically reviewed by the Company whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment has occurred. For long lived assets held for use, a potential impairment has occurred if projected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets. The estimate of cash flows includes managements assumptions of cash inflows and outflows directly resulting from the use of that asset in operations. When a potential impairment has occurred, an impairment write down is recorded if the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds its fair value. The Company believes its estimated cash flows are sufficient to support the carrying value of its long lived assets. If estimated cash flows significantly differ in the future, the Company may be required to record asset impairment write downs. For long lived assets held for disposal, whether by abandonment or sale, an impairment charge is recorded if the carrying amount of the assets exceeds its fair value less costs to sell. Such valuations include estimations of fair values, costs to dispose, and time periods over which to sell the assets. In addition, liabilities arise such as severance, contractual obligations and other accruals associated with store closings from decisions to dispose of assets. The Company estimates these liabilities based on the facts and circumstances in existence for each restructuring decision. The amounts the Company will ultimately realize or disburse could differ from the amounts assumed in arriving at the asset impairment and restructuring charge recorded. Self Insurance Reserves The Company is self insured for workers compensation and public liability claims up to certain maximum liability amounts. Although the amounts accrued are actuarially determined based on analysis of historical trends of losses, settlements, litigation costs and other factors, the amounts the Company will ultimately disburse could differ from such accrued amounts. Pension and Other Employee Benefit Plans The Company, through its actuaries, utilizes assumptions when estimating the liabilities for pension and other employee benefit plans. These assumptions, where applicable, include the discount rates used to determine the actuarial present value of projected benefit obligations, the rate of increase in future compensation levels, the long term rate of return on assets and the growth in health care costs. The cost of these benefits is recognized in the financial statements over an employees term of service with the Company. 12 Table of Contents Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations include managements best estimates of the amounts expected to be realized on the sale or wind down of assets and businesses of the Fingerhut operations as well as estimates regarding the timing of those dispositions. Currently, assuming that a buyer cannot be found, the Fingerhut core catalog business liquidation is planned for completion during the second or third quarter of fiscal year 2002 and the credit operation liquidation is planned for completion within four years. See Item 1 Business for a discussion of the status of negotiations for the sale of Fingerhut. Fingerhuts other operations, including Arizona Mail Order, Figis, and Popular Club Plan, are anticipated to be sold as ongoing businesses by the end of fiscal year 2002. The amounts the Company will ultimately realize could differ in the coming twelve months from the amounts assumed in arriving at the loss on disposal of the discontinued operations. Included in the loss on disposal, the Company recorded losses related to Fingerhuts core catalog accounts receivable portfolio through the four year wind down period. The calculated loss includes estimates regarding customer payment rates, write off rates, finance charge income, late fee income, and operating expenses, such as collection costs, necessary to carry out the wind down of the portfolio. These estimates were based on a third party offer to purchase the portfolio, historical experience and industry data where available. The estimated loss from the Fingerhut core catalog operations during the wind down period includes assumptions of revenues to be earned and estimated expenses to be incurred based on historical experience as well as through detailed departmental plans regarding the costs necessary to complete the liquidation in the planned timeframe. Losses on inventory were recognized based on estimated recovery values expected to be received from a third party liquidator. Write downs of property, plant and equipment were based on historical recovery rates for similar liquidations of personal property and brokerage quotes, where available, for real estate properties. Other assets, such as tradenames, customer lists, supplies, prepaid expenses, and capitalized software, were written down to estimated net realizable value, which in some cases was zero due to their lack of marketability. The loss on sale of the Fingerhut subsidiaries was estimated using market value quotes from an investment bank, projected net book values of each subsidiary at the expected sale dates, and expenses necessary to disconnect the subsidiaries support functions from Fingerhuts core catalog operations. Severance and retention were estimated based on the current workforce, employment needs through the wind down period, employment agreements where applicable, years of service, and estimated payout based on the general severance and retention plan offered to employees. Remaining lease obligations or contractual cancellation penalties were estimated based on a review of the contract terms in place. Estimated interest expense has been allocated to discontinued operations based upon the debt balances attributable to those operations. New Pronouncements In 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141, Business Combinations, and SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, effective for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 and for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001, respectively. SFAS No. 141 eliminates the pooling of interests method of accounting for business combinations with limited exceptions for transactions initiated prior to July 1, 2001 13 Table of Contents and broadens the criteria for recording intangible assets separate from goodwill. The provisions of SFAS No. 141 were used as guidance to account for the acquisition of Liberty House. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives will no longer be amortized but will be subject to annual impairment tests. Other intangible assets will continue to be amortized over their estimated lives. Application of the nonamortization provisions of SFAS No. 142, beginning in the first quarter of 2002, is expected to result in reductions to annual goodwill amortization of $28 million and an increase in annual income from continuing operations of approximately $24 million. During 2002, the Company will perform the first of the required impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, and the Company does not anticipate a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Also, in 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. This Statement supersedes SFAS No. 121 but retains many of its fundamental provisions. Additionally, this Statement expands the scope of discontinued operations to include more disposal transactions. The provisions of the Statement are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. The Company does not anticipate that its adoption will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Outlook On February 26, 2002, the Company issued earnings guidance for 2002 and expects to achieve earnings per share from continuing operations of $3.30 to $3.55: 25 to 30 cents a share in the first quarter, 50 to 60 cents a share in the second quarter and $2.45 to $2.65 a share in the second half of the fiscal year, which ends February 1, 2003. Additionally, a comparable store sales increase of 1 to 1.5 percent is forecasted for 2002: down 2 to 3 percent in the first quarter, flattish in the second quarter and up 3 to 3.5 percent in the second half of 2002. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates which may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the Company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. The Company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its customer lending and borrowing activities, which are described in Notes 6 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The majority of the Companys borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. However, the Company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. See Notes 10 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. Based on the Companys market risk sensitive instruments (including variable rate debt and derivative financial instruments) outstanding at February 2, 2002, the Company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date. 14 Table of Contents 
 
