Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In January 2003, the Company announced and commenced the implementation of its plans to integrate the stores of Richs and Macys in the metro Atlanta area and operate these and all other Richs stores under a combined Richs Macys nameplate. As part of the consolidation, seven stores were closed. The Company currently anticipates that two locations will be renovated and reopened as Bloomingdales, one location will be renovated and reopened as a Richs Macys furniture gallery and four locations will be sold or leased for other retail use. In the near term, the store closings and store closing costs are expected to have a negative impact on net sales and operating income, but in the longer term all of these actions are expected to positively affect operating income, cash flows from operations and return on investment. On January 16, 2002, the Companys Board of Directors approved a plan to dispose of the operations of Fingerhut Companies, Inc. (Fingerhut), including the Arizona Mail Order, Figis and Popular Club Plan businesses conducted by Fingerhuts subsidiaries, which were acquired by the Company on March 18, 1999. The decision to dispose of Fingerhut was based on managements determination that there was no longer strategic value to Federated in retaining the Fingerhut operations and there was no expectation, based on Fingerhuts historical earnings and future prospects, that this business would contribute meaningfully to the Companys future financial performance. The plan of disposition approved by the Companys board of directors contemplated a disposal by liquidation of the Fingerhut core catalog operations and a disposal by sale of Fingerhuts three catalog subsidiaries, Arizona Mail Order, Figis and Popular Club Plan. As of February 1, 2003, substantially all Fingerhut assets had been disposed of and substantially all Fingerhut liabilities had been settled. The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods account for Fingerhut as a discontinued operation as a result of the Companys decision to dispose of the Fingerhut operations. Unless otherwise indicated, the following discussion relates to the Companys continuing operations. On July 9, 2001, the Company completed its acquisition of Liberty House, Inc. (Liberty House), a department store retailer operating 11 department stores and seven resort and specialty stores in Hawaii and one department store in Guam. The total purchase price of the Liberty House acquisition was approximately $200 million, consisting of approximately $183 million of cash and the assumption of approximately $17 million of indebtedness. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, the results of operations of Liberty House have been included in the Companys results of operations from the date of acquisition and the purchase price has been allocated to Liberty Houses assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values as of that date. All Liberty House stores were subsequently converted to Macys stores in 2001. On February 2, 2001, the Company decided to close its Sterns department store division, and to convert most of its Sterns stores to Macys and Bloomingdales stores, in order to expand and strengthen Macys and Bloomingdales. Also, on November 29, 2001, the Company announced the reorganization of its department store related catalog and e commerce operations to conduct its continuing Internet and catalog business exclusively through macys.com and Bloomingdales By Mail. As a result of continuing declines in interest rates and the market value of the Companys defined benefit pension plan assets, the Company was required to increase its minimum pension liability and reduce stockholders equity at February 1, 2003 by $261 million, net of tax effect. This adjustment did not affect the Companys reported earnings or pension plan funding requirements. However, the Company 8 Table of Contents made a $50 million voluntary contribution to the pension plan in 2002 and anticipates that pension expense, which was approximately $4 million in 2002, will increase by $15 20 million in 2003. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following discussion contains forward looking statements that reflect the Companys plans, estimates and beliefs. The Companys actual results could materially differ from those discussed in these forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, particularly in Forward Looking Statements. Results of Operations Comparison of the 52 Weeks Ended February 1, 2003 and the 52 Weeks Ended February 2, 2002. Net income for 2002 totaled $818 million compared to a net loss for 2001 of $276 million. Net sales for 2002 totaled $15,435 million, compared to net sales of $15,651 million for 2001, a decrease of 1.4%. The overall sales trend in 2002 was negatively impacted by a difficult economic climate. On a comparable store basis (sales from stores in operation throughout 2001 and 2002), net sales decreased 3.0% compared to 2001. By family of business, sales were relatively strong in private brands, furniture, jewelry and young mens. The weakest businesses were the soft home areas tabletop (china, silver, glass), textiles and housewares. Cost of sales was 60.0% of net sales for 2002, compared to 61.2% for 2001. Cost of sales as a percent of net sales, excluding $53 million in inventory valuation adjustments, was 60.9% in 2001. The cost of sales rate in 2002 benefited from lower net markdowns resulting from the lower inventory levels throughout 2002. The valuation of merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either period. Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) were 31.3% of net sales for 2002 compared to 30.7% for 2001. Finance charge income on proprietary accounts receivable was $353 million for 2002, down from $361 million in 2001, primarily due to the decrease in average accounts receivable balances. Amounts charged to expense for doubtful proprietary accounts receivable were $143 million for 2002, compared to $128 million in 2001, reflecting slightly higher delinquency rates during 2002. Included in SG&A expenses for 2002 were approximately $68 million of costs, 0.4% of net sales, incurred in the fourth quarter in connection with the Richs Macys consolidation and other announced store closings. These costs were primarily real estate related and also included severance. In 2001, there was approximately $29 million of costs, 0.2% of net sales, incurred in the fourth quarter in connection with store closings included in SG&A expenses, also primarily related to real estate write downs. SG&A expenses in 2002 benefited from lower goodwill and intangible amortization as a result of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Effective February 3, 2002, the Company ceased amortizing goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. SG&A expenses in 2001 included amortization expense of $28 million, 0.2% of net sales, related to goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. The effect of the non amortization provisions of SFAS No. 142 was offset by the impact of higher occupancy related expenses, such as depreciation, rent, taxes and insurance. During 2001, the Company incurred asset impairment and restructuring charges related to its department store business. These costs related primarily to the closing of its Sterns department store division and subsequent integration into its Macys and Bloomingdales operations, the acquisition of Liberty House and subsequent integration into Macys and the reorganization of its department store 9 Table of Contents related catalog and e commerce operations. The Company recorded $215 million of asset impairment and restructuring charges during 2001, including $53 million of inventory valuation adjustments as a part of cost of sales. The $53 million of inventory valuation adjustments included $33 million related to the Sterns conversion, $17 million related to the Liberty House integration and $3 million related to the catalog and e commerce reorganization. These inventory valuation adjustments consisted of markdowns on merchandise that was sold at Sterns, Liberty House or through the Companys catalog and e commerce channels and that would not continue to be sold following the conversion of the Sterns and Liberty House stores and the reorganization of the catalog and e commerce business. The $162 million of asset impairment and restructuring charges included $38 million of costs associated with converting the Sterns stores into Macys (including store remodeling costs, advertising, credit card issuance and promotion and other name change expenses), $35 million of costs to close and sell certain Sterns stores (including lease obligations and other store closing expenses), $18 million of severance costs related to the Sterns closure, $9 million of Sterns duplicate central office costs, $10 million of costs associated with converting the Liberty House stores into Macys (including advertising, credit card issuance and promotion and other name change expenses), $4 million of Liberty House duplicate central office costs, $40 million of fixed asset and capitalized software write downs related to the catalog and e commerce reorganization, $4 million of other exit costs associated with the catalog and e commerce reorganization and $4 million related to an investment write down as a result of the Companys determination, based on uncertain financing alternatives and a comparison to market values of similar publicly traded businesses, that this equity investment was impaired on an other than temporary basis. Net interest expense was $295 million for 2002 compared to $324 million for 2001, primarily due to lower levels of borrowings. The Companys effective income tax rate of 39.1% for 2002 differs from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes and permanent differences arising from other items. The Companys effective income tax rate of 33.6% for 2001 differs from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of the disposition of its Sterns subsidiary, state and local income taxes and permanent differences arising from the amortization of intangible assets and other items. Income tax expense for 2001 reflects a $44 million benefit related to the recognition of the effect of the difference between the financial reporting and tax bases of the Companys investment in Sterns Department Stores, Inc. upon disposition. During 2002, through various transactions, the Company completed the sale of the Arizona Mail Order, Figis and Popular Club Plan businesses conducted by Fingerhuts subsidiaries, completed the sale of Fingerhuts core catalog accounts receivable portfolio, with the buyer assuming $450 million of receivables backed debt, and completed the sale of various other Fingerhut assets, including two distribution centers, the corporate headquarters, a data center, existing inventory, the Fingerhut name, customer lists and other miscellaneous property and equipment. Proceeds from the foregoing sale transactions and collections on customer accounts receivable prior to the sale, net of operating expenses, exceeded the amount estimated to be received through wind down of the portfolio and liquidation of the assets, resulting in an adjustment to the loss on disposal of discontinued operations for 2002 totaling $307 million of income before income taxes, or $180 million after income taxes. As of February 1, 2003, substantially all Fingerhut assets had been disposed of and substantially all Fingerhut liabilities had been settled. Comparison of the 52 weeks ended February 2, 2002 and the 53 weeks ended February 3, 2001. The net loss for 2001 was $276 million compared to a net loss of $184 million for 2000. 10 Table of Contents Net sales for 2001 totaled $15,651 million, compared to net sales of $16,638 million for 2000, a decrease of 5.9%. The sales decrease reflects a weak economy, the events of September 11th and the closing of Sterns. The overall sales trend was disappointing, particularly in such categories as mens, tabletop (china, silver, glass) and luggage. However, sales were relatively strong in private brands, juniors and young mens. On a comparable store basis (sales from stores in operation throughout 2000 and 2001, including Sterns stores in operation throughout the first quarter of 2000 and 2001, and adjusting for the impact of the 53rd week in 2000), net sales for 2001 decreased 5.3% compared to 2000. Cost of sales was 61.2% of net sales for 2001, compared to 59.8% for 2000. Cost of sales as a percent of net sales, excluding $53 million of inventory valuation adjustments, was 60.9% in 2001, reflecting higher markdowns taken in 2001 which were needed, given the large decline in sales, to reduce inventories to more appropriate levels, particularly in fashion apparel categories. The Company ended 2001 with inventories down 7%, compared to 2000. The valuation of merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either period. SG&A expenses were 30.7% of net sales for 2001, compared to 29.5% for 2000. SG&A expenses decreased 2.2% in actual dollars compared to 2000, however, due to the lower sales level, SG&A expenses increased 1.2 percentage points as a percent of net sales. The Company was able to reduce total selling expenses, although not enough to compensate for the sales decrease. In 2001, there was approximately $29 million of costs, 0.2% of net sales, incurred in the fourth quarter in connection with store closings included in SG&A expenses, primarily related to real estate write downs. Additionally, an increase in relatively fixed costs, such as depreciation and amortization, utilities, etc., contributed greatly to the higher SG&A expense rate. Finance charge income was $361 million for 2001, up from $349 million in 2000, primarily due to the growth in average accounts receivable balances. Amounts charged to expense for doubtful accounts receivable were $128 million for 2001, compared to $106 million in 2000, also due to the growth in average accounts receivable balances. During 2001, the Company incurred asset impairment and restructuring charges related to its department store business. These costs related primarily to the closing of its Sterns department store division and subsequent integration into its Macys and Bloomingdales operations, the acquisition of Liberty House and subsequent integration into Macys and the reorganization of its department store related catalog and e commerce operations. The Company recorded $215 million of asset impairment and restructuring charges during 2001, including $53 million of inventory valuation adjustments as a part of cost of sales. The $53 million of inventory valuation adjustments included $33 million related to the Sterns conversion, $17 million related to the Liberty House integration and $3 million related to the catalog and e commerce reorganization. These inventory valuation adjustments consisted of markdowns on merchandise that was sold at Sterns, Liberty House or through the Companys catalog and e commerce channels and that would not continue to be sold following the conversion of the Sterns and Liberty House stores and the reorganization of the catalog and e commerce business. The $162 million of asset impairment and restructuring charges included $38 million of costs associated with converting the Sterns stores into Macys (including store remodeling costs, advertising, credit card issuance and promotion and other name change expenses), $35 million of costs to close and sell certain Sterns stores (including lease obligations and other store closing expenses), $18 million of severance costs related to the Sterns closure, $9 million of Sterns duplicate central office costs, $10 million of costs associated with converting the Liberty House stores into Macys (including advertising, credit card issuance and promotion and other name change expenses), $4 million of Liberty House duplicate central office costs, $40 million of fixed asset and capitalized software write downs related to the catalog and e commerce reorganization, 11 Table of Contents $4 million of other exit costs associated with the catalog and e commerce reorganization and $4 million related to an investment write down as a result of the Companys determination, based on uncertain financing alternatives and a comparison to market values of similar publicly traded businesses, that this equity investment was impaired on an other than temporary basis. Net interest expense was $324 million for 2001, compared to $321 million for 2000. The Companys effective income tax rate of 33.6% for 2001 differs from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of the disposition of its Sterns subsidiary, state and local income taxes and permanent differences arising from the amortization of intangible assets and other items. Income tax expense for 2001 reflects a $44 million benefit related to the recognition of the effect of the difference between the financial reporting and tax bases of the Companys investment in Sterns Department Stores, Inc. upon disposition. The Companys effective income tax rate of 40.1% for 2000 differs from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes and permanent differences arising from the amortization of intangible assets. The net loss from discontinued operations includes only the results of the operating segment of Fingerhut (including its three catalog subsidiaries, Arizona Mail Order, Figis, and Popular Club Plan). The net loss from discontinued operations for 2001 was $14 million, compared to a loss of $1,005 million for 2000. The loss in 2000 included $882 million of pre tax charges related to intangible, investment and fixed asset write downs and other costs and expenses associated with the downsizing of the Fingerhut core catalog operations. In 2001, the Company also recorded a $770 million loss related to the disposal of Fingerhut, including $292 million of estimated operating losses expected during the wind down period. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal sources of liquidity are cash from operations, cash on hand and the credit facilities, described below. Net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2002 was $1,168 million, compared to $1,372 million for 2001. Cash provided by operating activities in 2002 reflects smaller decreases in accounts receivable, merchandise inventories, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, an increase in current income taxes and a decrease in deferred income taxes. Net cash used by continuing investing activities was $637 million for 2002. Continuing investing activities for 2002 included purchases of property and equipment totaling $568 million and capitalized software of $59 million. Continuing investing activities for 2001 included the acquisition of Liberty House at a net cash cost of $175 million, purchases of property and equipment totaling $615 million and capitalized software of $36 million. The Company opened thirteen full line department stores, one home store and one furniture gallery during 2002. The Company intends to open six new department stores, two new home stores and four furniture galleries in 2003, all before the next Christmas season. The Companys budgeted capital expenditures are approximately $650 million for 2003, $650 million for 2004 and $650 million for 2005. Management presently anticipates funding such expenditures with cash from operations. Net cash used by the Company for continuing financing activities was $1,375 million in 2002. The Company repaid $1,015 million of borrowings during 2002, consisting principally of $598 million of receivables backed financings and $400 million of 8.125% senior notes. The Company purchased 11.4 million shares of its Common Stock under its stock repurchase program during 2002 at an 12 Table of Contents approximate cost of $390 million. As of February 1, 2003, the Company had approximately $210 million of the $1,500 million stock repurchase program remaining. The Company may continue or, from time to time, suspend repurchases of shares under its stock repurchase program, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. Net cash provided to the Company by discontinued operations was $924 million, after the payment of approximately $529 million of related debt, for the 52 weeks ended February 1, 2003, primarily due to the sale of Fingerhuts core catalog accounts receivable portfolio and the sale of the Arizona Mail Order, Figis and Popular Club Plan businesses and various other Fingerhut assets. The Company finances its proprietary credit card receivables, which arise solely from sales originated in the conduct of the Companys retail operations, using on balance sheet financing arrangements, including term receivables backed certificates issued by a subsidiary of the Company together with receivables backed commercial paper issued by another subsidiary of the Company. At February 1, 2003, these arrangements included a $375 million asset backed commercial paper program. Under the $375 million commercial paper program, a special purpose subsidiary of the Company issues commercial paper backed by a Class A Variable Funding Certificate issued out of the Prime Credit Card Master Trust which holds the proprietary receivables. If the subsidiary is unable to issue commercial paper to fund maturities of outstanding commercial paper, it has a liquidity facility with a number of banks which will fund loans in order to repay the commercial paper. The commercial paper investors have no recourse back to the Company. As of February 1, 2003, and February 2, 2002, there was no such commercial paper or loan outstanding. The Company finances its non proprietary credit card receivables, which arise from transactions originated by merchants that accept third party credit cards issued by the Companys FDS Bank subsidiary, using on balance sheet financing arrangements. Under these arrangements, a special purpose subsidiary of the Company sells Class A and Class B Variable Funding Certificates issued out of the Prime Credit Card Master Trust II (Trust II) which holds the non proprietary receivables to three unrelated bank commercial paper conduit programs. The commercial paper conduit programs have agreed to purchase certificates of up to $700 million in the aggregate. Receivables backed financings classified as short term debt at February 1, 2003, consist of $486 million of debt under these arrangements. Prior to July 2002, the Company financed its non proprietary credit card receivables through an off balance sheet sale arrangement. During July 2002, in connection with the extension of the financing arrangement related to the Companys non proprietary credit card receivables, the Companys special purpose subsidiary took certain actions which resulted in the consolidation of Trust II for financial reporting purposes. In particular, the documentation governing the arrangement was amended to provide the Companys special purpose subsidiary the ability to unilaterally remove transferred assets from Trust II. Under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, this amendment disqualified the arrangement for sale treatment and requires secured borrowing treatment for all sales of the Companys non proprietary credit card receivables pursuant to this arrangement. The principal assets and liabilities of Trust II consist of non proprietary credit card receivables transferred by the Company to Trust II in transactions previously accounted for as sales under SFAS No. 140 and the related debt issued by Trust II. As a result of the Companys actions, the transfer of receivables and debt are being treated as secured borrowings as of and subsequent to July 5, 2002. All assets and liabilities of Trust II were consolidated at fair value. These actions increased the Companys consolidated assets and debt by $479 million at July 5, 2002. 13 Table of Contents The Company is a party to a five year $1,200 million revolving credit facility that expires in June 2006 and a 364 day $400 million revolving credit facility that expires in June 2003 (which the Company expects to extend annually, subject to an assessment of liquidity needs). At February 1, 2003, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under either of these facilities, but had $31 million of letters of credit outstanding under the five year facility. The issuance of commercial paper under the Companys $1,600 million unsecured commercial paper facility program will have the effect, while such commercial paper is outstanding, of reducing the Companys borrowing capacity under the Companys $1,600 million bank credit agreements by an amount equal to the face amount of such commercial paper. As of February 1, 2003, there was no such commercial paper outstanding. The credit agreements governing those facilities require the Company to maintain a specified interest coverage ratio of no less than 3.25 and a specified leverage ratio of no more than .62. At February 1, 2003, the Company was in compliance with these requirements by significant margins. Management believes that the likelihood of the Company defaulting on the foregoing debt covenants is remote absent any material negative event affecting the U.S. economy as a whole. However, if the Companys results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the Company is not in compliance with any of its debt covenants and the Company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the Companys debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. At February 1, 2003, the Company had contractual obligations as follows: Obligations Due by Period Within 2 3 4 5 After 5 Total 1 Year Years Years Years (millions) Short term debt $ 940 $ 940 $ $ $ Long term debt 3,354 653 1 2,700 Capital lease obligations 116 11 20 16 69 Operating leases 2,709 162 308 296 1,943 Letters of credit 53 53 $ 7,172 $ 1,166 $ 981 $ 313 $ 4,712 Management believes that, with respect to the Companys current operations, cash on hand and funds from operations, together with its credit facilities and other capital resources, will be sufficient to cover the Companys reasonably foreseeable working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements in both the near term and over the longer term. The Companys ability to generate funds from operations may be affected by numerous factors, including general economic conditions and levels of consumer confidence and demand; however, the Company expects to be able to manage its working capital levels and capital expenditure amounts so as to maintain its liquidity levels. For short term liquidity, the Company also relies on its $1,600 million unsecured commercial paper facility, a $375 million asset backed commercial paper program relating to the Companys proprietary credit card receivables and three asset backed bank conduit commercial paper programs relating to the Companys non proprietary credit card receivables (discussed above) in an aggregate amount of $700 million. Access to the unsecured commercial paper program is dependent on the Companys credit rating; a downgrade in its short term rating would hinder its ability to access this market. If the Company is unable to access the unsecured commercial paper market, it has the ability to access $1,600 million pursuant to its bank credit 14 Table of Contents agreements. These bank credit agreements have no material adverse change condition for utilization. The asset backed commercial paper programs are used to finance the Companys proprietary and non proprietary credit card receivables. These programs are extended annually and can be used to finance the receivables as long as the net portfolio yields remain positive. Depending upon conditions in the capital markets and other factors, the Company will from time to time consider the issuance of debt (both unsecured and asset backed) or other securities, or other possible capital markets transactions, the proceeds of which could be used to refinance current indebtedness or for other corporate purposes. Management believes the department store business and other retail businesses will continue to consolidate. The Company intends from time to time to consider additional acquisitions of, and investments in, department stores and other complementary assets and companies. Acquisition transactions, if any, are expected to be financed through a combination of cash on hand and from operations and the possible issuance from time to time of long term debt or other securities. Critical Accounting Policies Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company evaluates the collectibility of its proprietary and non proprietary accounts receivable based on a combination of factors, including analysis of historical trends, aging of accounts receivable, write off experience and expectations of future performance. Proprietary and non proprietary accounts receivable are considered delinquent if more than one scheduled minimum payment is missed. Delinquent proprietary accounts are generally written off automatically after the passage of 210 days without receiving a full scheduled monthly payment. Delinquent non proprietary accounts are written off automatically after the passage of 180 days without receiving a full scheduled monthly payment. Accounts are written off sooner in the event of customer bankruptcy or other circumstances that make further collection unlikely. The Company reserves for doubtful proprietary accounts based on a loss to collections rate and doubtful non proprietary accounts based on a roll reserve rate. At February 1, 2003, a 0.1 percentage point change in the result of the loss to collections rate would impact the proprietary reserve for doubtful accounts by approximately $2 million. At February 1, 2003, a 0.1 percentage point change in the result of the roll reserve rate would impact the non proprietary reserve for doubtful accounts by approximately $1 million. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the last in, first out (LIFO) retail inventory method. Under the retail inventory method, inventory is segregated into departments of merchandise having similar characteristics, and is stated at its current retail selling value. Inventory retail values are converted to a cost basis by applying specific average cost factors for each merchandise department. Cost factors represent the average cost to retail ratio for each merchandise department based on beginning inventory and the fiscal year purchase activity. The retail inventory method inherently requires management judgments and contains estimates, such as the amount and timing of permanent markdowns to clear unproductive or slow moving inventory, which may impact the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margins. Permanent markdowns designated for clearance activity are recorded when the utility of the inventory has diminished. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. When a decision is made to permanently mark down merchandise, the resulting gross profit reduction is recognized in the 15 Table of Contents period the markdown is recorded. The Company receives cash allowances from merchandise vendors as purchase price adjustments. Purchase price adjustments are credited to cost of sales in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 02 16, Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of sales for the period from the last inventory date to the end of the fiscal period. Such estimates are based on experience and the most recent physical inventory results. While it is not possible to quantify the impact from each cause of shrinkage, the Company has loss prevention programs and policies that minimize shrinkage experience. Physical inventories are taken within each merchandise department at least twice annually and inventory records are adjusted accordingly. Long Lived Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges The carrying value of long lived assets are periodically reviewed by the Company whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment has occurred. For long lived assets held for use, a potential impairment has occurred if projected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets. The estimate of cash flows includes managements assumptions of cash inflows and outflows directly resulting from the use of those assets in operations. When a potential impairment has occurred, an impairment write down is recorded if the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds its fair value. The Company believes its estimated cash flows are sufficient to support the carrying value of its long lived assets. If estimated cash flows significantly differ in the future, the Company may be required to record asset impairment write downs. For long lived assets held for disposal by sale, an impairment charge is recorded if the carrying amount of the assets exceeds its fair value less costs to sell. Such valuations include estimations of fair values and incremental direct costs to transact a sale. For long lived assets to be abandoned, the Company considers the asset to be disposed of when it ceases to be used. If the Company commits to a plan to abandon a long lived asset before the end of its previously estimated useful life, depreciation estimates are revised accordingly. In addition, liabilities arise such as severance, contractual obligations and other accruals associated with store closings from decisions to dispose of assets. The Company estimates these liabilities based on the facts and circumstances in existence for each restructuring decision. The amounts the Company will ultimately realize or disburse could differ from the amounts assumed in arriving at the asset impairment and restructuring charge recorded. Self Insurance Reserves The Company is self insured for workers compensation and public liability claims up to certain maximum liability amounts. Although the amounts accrued are actuarially determined based on analysis of historical trends of losses, settlements, litigation costs and other factors, the amounts the Company will ultimately disburse could differ from such accrued amounts. Pension and Supplementary Retirement Plans The Company has a funded defined benefit pension plan (the Pension Plan) and an unfunded defined benefit supplementary retirement plan (the SERP). The Company accounts for these plans using SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions. Under SFAS No. 87, pension expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods. Pension expense calculated under SFAS No. 87 is generally independent of funding decisions or requirements. 16 Table of Contents The fair value of the Pension Plan assets decreased from $1,480 million at February 2, 2002 to $1,276 million at February 1, 2003. Lower investment returns (in the case of the Pension Plan), benefit payments and declining discount rates resulted in the funded status of the Pension Plan changing from $83 million overfunded at February 2, 2002 to $207 million underfunded at February 1, 2003 and the underfunded status of the SERP increasing from $180 million at February 2, 2002 to $216 million at February 1, 2003. Funding requirements for the Pension Plan are determined by government regulations, not SFAS No. 87. Although no funding contribution was required, the Company made a $50 million voluntary funding contribution to the Pension Plan in 2002. The Company currently anticipates that it will not be required to make any additional contribution to the Pension Plan until 2005. At February 1, 2003, the Company had unrecognized actuarial losses of $513 million for the Pension Plan and $90 million for the SERP. These losses will be recognized as a component of pension expense in future years in accordance with SFAS No. 87. The calculation of pension expense and pension liability requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and future actual experience may differ significantly from current expectations. The Company believes that the most critical assumptions relate to the long term rate of return on plan assets (in the case of the Pension Plan), the discount rate used to determine the present value of projected benefit obligations and the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels. The Company has assumed that the Pension Plan assets will generate a long term rate of return of 9.0% for 2003. This rate is lower than the assumed rate of 9.75% used for 2002. The Company develops its long term rate of return assumption by evaluating input from several professional advisors taking into account the asset allocation of the portfolio and long term asset class return expectations, as well as long term inflation assumptions. Pension expense increases as the expected rate of return on the Pension Plan assets decreases. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Pension Plan assets by 0.75% (from 9.75% to 9.0%) increased the estimated 2003 pension expense by approximately $12 million. The Company discounted its future pension obligations using a rate of 6.75% at December 31, 2002, compared to 7.25% at December 31, 2001. The Company determines the appropriate discount rate based on the current yield earned on an index of investment grade long term bonds. Pension liability and future pension expense both increase as the discount rate is reduced. Lowering the discount rate by 0.50% (from 7.25% to 6.75%) increased pension liability at February 1, 2003 by approximately $69 million and increased estimated 2003 pension expense by approximately $4 million. The assumed weighted average rate of increase in future compensation levels was 5.8% as of December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001 for the Pension Plan and 7.7% as of December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001 for the SERP. The Company develops its increase of future compensation level assumption based on recent experience. Pension liability and future pension expense both increase as the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels is increased. Increasing the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels by 0.25% would increase the projected benefit obligation at February 1, 2003 by approximately $6 million and increase estimated 2003 pension expense by approximately $1 million. Discontinued Operations At February 2, 2002, discontinued operations included managements best estimates of the amounts expected to be realized on the sale or wind down of assets and businesses of the Fingerhut operations, 17 Table of Contents including the Arizona Mail Order, Figis and Popular Club Plan businesses conducted by Fingerhuts subsidiaries, as well as estimates regarding the timing of those dispositions. As a result of uncertainties inherent in those estimates, the amount of loss actually experienced by the Company differed from the estimated loss. All adjustments between the recorded amounts at February 2, 2002 and what was actually realized were recorded in the statement of operations during the 52 weeks ended February 1, 2003. Included in the estimated loss on disposal, the Company recorded losses related to Fingerhuts core catalog accounts receivable portfolio through an estimated four year wind down period. The calculated loss included estimates regarding customer payment rates, write off rates, finance charge income, late fee income, and operating expenses, such as collection costs, necessary to carry out the wind down of the portfolio. These estimates were based on a third party offer to purchase the portfolio, historical experience and industry data where available. The estimated loss from the Fingerhut core catalog operations during the wind down period included assumptions of revenues to be earned and estimated expenses to be incurred based on historical experience as well as through detailed departmental plans regarding the costs necessary to complete the liquidation in the planned timeframe. Losses on inventory were recognized based on estimated recovery values expected to be received from a third party liquidator. Write downs of property, plant and equipment were based on historical recovery rates for similar liquidations of personal property and brokerage quotes, where available, for real estate properties. Other assets, such as tradenames, customer lists, supplies, prepaid expenses, and capitalized software, were written down to estimated net realizable value, which in some cases was zero due to their lack of marketability. The loss on sale of the Fingerhut subsidiaries was estimated using market value quotes from an investment bank, projected net book values of each subsidiary at the expected sale dates, and expenses necessary to disconnect the subsidiaries support functions from Fingerhuts core catalog operations. Severance and retention were estimated based on the then current workforce, employment needs through the wind down period, employment agreements where applicable, years of service, and estimated payout based on the general severance and retention plan offered to employees. Remaining lease obligations or contractual cancellation penalties were estimated based on a review of the contract terms in place. Estimated interest expense was allocated to discontinued operations based upon the debt balances attributable to those operations. As of February 1, 2003, substantially all Fingerhut assets had been disposed of and substantially all Fingerhut liabilities had been settled. New Pronouncements In 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. This statement nullifies EITF Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring), and clarifies the requirements for recognition of a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity. SFAS No. 146 is effective for exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 18 Table of Contents In 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections. This statement rescinds or amends existing authoritative pronouncements to make various technical corrections, clarify meanings or describe their applicability under changed conditions. SFAS No. 145 is effective for transactions occurring after May 15, 2002. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Also in 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure. This statement amends SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation and APB Opinion No. 28, Interim Financial Reporting to provide alternative methods of transition for an entity that voluntarily changes to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based compensation and amends the disclosure provisions therein. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In 2002, the FASB issued EITF Issue No. 02 16, Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor. This issue addresses the resellers accounting for cash consideration received from a vendor. The Companys current accounting policy related to certain consideration received from a vendor is consistent with the provisions of this issue and therefore, the Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations. This statement establishes accounting standards for recognition and measurement of a liability for the costs of asset retirement obligations. The provisions of this statement are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Outlook On February 25, 2003, the Company issued earnings guidance for 2003 and expects to achieve earnings per share from continuing operations of $3.05 to $3.25: 14 to 19 cents a share in the first quarter, 55 to 60 cents a share in the second quarter and $2.44 to $2.54 a share in the second half of the fiscal year, which ends January 31, 2004. These estimates include store closing costs of $35 million in the first quarter and $5 million in both the second quarter and the second half of the year. Additionally, comparable store sales of flat to down 1.5 percent is forecasted for 2003: down 2 to 3 percent in the first quarter, down 1 to 2 percent in the second quarter and between down 1 percent to up 1 percent in the second half of 2003. In estimating comparable store sales and earnings per share, the Company assumed that general economic conditions and consumer confidence and demand would be such that the forecasted amounts of comparable store sales would be achieved, the gross margin rate would be flat for the year, although it is likely to be down compared to 2002 for the first half of the year, and SG&A dollars, excluding the aforementioned store closing costs, are assumed to increase 2 to 2.5 percent, with larger increases assumed in the second half of the year when the sales growth is assumed to be higher. The accuracy of these assumptions and of the resulting forecasts is subject to uncertainties and circumstances beyond the Companys control. Consequently, actual results could differ materially from the forecasted results. 19 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates which may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the Company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. The Company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its customer lending and borrowing activities, which are described in Notes 6 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The majority of the Companys borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. However, the Company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. See Notes 10 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. Based on the Companys market risk sensitive instruments (including variable rate debt and derivative financial instruments) outstanding at February 1, 2003, the Company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date. 
 
