Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company is a retail organization operating department stores that sell a wide range of merchandise, including mens, womens and childrens apparel and accessories, cosmetics, home furnishings and other consumer goods in 34 states, Puerto Rico and Guam. The highest concentration of stores are on the west coast, in the southeast and the northeast. The Companys operations are significantly impacted by competitive pressures from department and specialty stores and all other retail channels, and general consumer spending levels, including the impact of employment levels. The Company entered 2003 strategically focused on four key priorities for improving the business over the longer term: differentiating merchandise assortments; simplifying pricing; enriching the overall shopping experience; and communicating better with customers through more effective marketing. The Company believes that its recent results indicate that these strategies are working and that the customer is responding in a favorable manner. In early 2004, the Company announced a further step in reinventing its department stores the creation of a centralized organization to be responsible for the overall strategy, merchandising and marketing of home related categories of business in all of its Macys branded stores. The centralized operation is expected to accelerate sales in these categories largely by improving and further differentiating the Companys home related merchandise assortments. The Company has also taken steps to put its strong cash flow to work towards increasing shareholder return, including the institution of a $.50 per share annual cash dividend in 2003 and the continuation of the Companys stock repurchase program. In May 2003, the Company announced a strategy to more fully utilize its Macys brand. Since the fall of 2003, The Bon March stores have operated as Bon Macys, Lazarus stores as Lazarus Macys and Goldsmiths stores as Goldsmiths Macys. Beginning in fiscal 2004, the Burdines stores have operated as Burdines Macys and the seven Macys stores previously operating in Florida were integrated into the Burdines Macys organization; however, one of the stores is scheduled to close in September 2004. The Company believes that these changes will enable the Company to benefit from the greater leverage of the Macys brand and result in more efficient operations. In January 2003, the Company announced and commenced the implementation of its plans to integrate the stores of Richs and Macys in the metro Atlanta area and operate these, and all other Richs stores, under a combined Richs Macys nameplate, effective February 2, 2003. As part of the consolidation, certain stores were closed; however, one location was renovated and partially reopened as a Richs Macys furniture gallery and two locations were renovated and reopened as Bloomingdales stores. In January 2002, the Companys Board of Directors approved a plan to dispose of the operations of Fingerhut Companies, Inc. (Fingerhut), including the Arizona Mail Order, Figis and Popular Club Plan businesses conducted by Fingerhuts subsidiaries, which were acquired by the Company on March 18, 1999. As of February 1, 2003, substantially all Fingerhut assets had been disposed of and substantially all Fingerhut liabilities had been settled. The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods account for Fingerhut as a discontinued operation as a result of the Companys decision to dispose of the Fingerhut operations. Unless otherwise indicated, the following discussion relates to the Companys continuing operations. On July 9, 2001, the Company completed its acquisition of Liberty House, Inc. (Liberty House), a department store retailer operating 11 department stores and seven resort and specialty stores in Hawaii 8 Table of Contents and one department store in Guam. All Liberty House stores were subsequently converted to Macys stores in 2001. In February 2001, the Company decided to close its Sterns department store division, and to convert most of its Sterns stores to Macys and Bloomingdales stores, in order to expand and strengthen Macys and Bloomingdales. Also, in November 2001, the Company announced the reorganization of its department store related catalog and e commerce operations to conduct its continuing Internet and catalog business exclusively through macys.com and Bloomingdales By Mail. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following discussion contains forward looking statements that reflect the Companys plans, estimates and beliefs. The Companys actual results could materially differ from those discussed in these forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, particularly in Forward Looking Statements. Results of Operations Comparison of the 52 Weeks Ended January 31, 2004 and the 52 Weeks Ended February 1, 2003. Income from continuing operations and net income for 2003 totaled $693 million, compared to income from continuing operations of $638 million and net income of $818 million for 2002. Net income for 2002 included $180 million of income from the disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax effect. The higher income from continuing operations primarily resulted from a combination of lower interest expense and a one time $38 million favorable income tax adjustment. Net sales for 2003 totaled $15,264 million, compared to net sales of $15,435 million for 2002, a decrease of 1.1%. On a comparable store basis (sales from stores in operation throughout 2002 and 2003), net sales decreased 0.9% compared to 2002. Bloomingdales produced the strongest sales performance in 2003 compared to 2002. Sales of the Companys private label brands continued to outperform the national brands and the penetration of the Companys private brands increased in 2003 to 17.1% of sales in Macys branded stores, as compared to 16.4% in 2002. By family of business, sales were strong in career apparel and more updated fashions in both mens and womens wear. Sales were also strong in handbags, jewelry, cosmetics, furniture and bedding. Weaker sales trends continued to be experienced in the soft home areas primarily tabletop (china, silver, glass) and housewares. Cost of sales was 59.6% of net sales for 2003, compared to 60.0% for 2002. The cost of sales rate and corresponding gross margin benefited from lower net markdowns due to lower inventory levels throughout 2003 and good receipt management. Merchandise inventories were down 4.3% at the end of 2003 as compared to the end of 2002. The valuation of merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either period. Selling, general & administrative (SG&A) expenses were 31.6% of net sales for 2003 compared to 31.3% for 2002. SG&A expenses in actual dollars for 2003 decreased 0.3% compared to 2002. Included in SG&A expenses for 2003 were approximately $59 million of costs incurred in connection with the Richs Macys and Burdines Macys consolidations and other announced store closings. Included in SG&A expenses for 2002 were approximately $68 million of costs incurred in connection with the Richs Macys consolidation and other announced store closings. Excluding the store closing and consolidation costs in both 2003 and 2002, SG&A expenses in actual dollars would be relatively flat compared to 2002. Higher 9 Table of Contents depreciation and amortization expense and increases in pension and medical costs in 2003 were partially offset by lower selling costs and reductions in pre opening expenses. Net interest expense was $257 million for 2003 compared to $295 million for 2002, primarily due to lower levels of borrowings. The Companys effective income tax rate of 36.0% for 2003 differs from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes and permanent differences arising from other items, partially offset by a one time favorable tax adjustment. The one time favorable tax adjustment reduced income tax expense for 2003 by $38 million and resulted from a change in estimate of the effective tax rate that existing deferred tax assets and liabilities will ultimately be settled. The Companys effective income tax rate of 39.1% for 2002 differs from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes and permanent differences arising from other items. During 2002, through various transactions, the Company completed the sale of the Arizona Mail Order, Figis and Popular Club Plan businesses conducted by Fingerhuts subsidiaries, completed the sale of Fingerhuts core catalog accounts receivable portfolio, with the buyer assuming $450 million of receivables backed debt, and completed the sale of various other Fingerhut assets, including two distribution centers, the corporate headquarters, a data center, existing inventory, the Fingerhut name, customer lists and other miscellaneous property and equipment. Proceeds from the foregoing sale transactions and collections on customer accounts receivable prior to the sale, net of operating expenses, exceeded the amount estimated to be received through wind down of the portfolio and liquidation of the assets, resulting in an adjustment to the loss on disposal of discontinued operations for 2002 totaling $307 million of income before income taxes of $127 million, or $180 million after income taxes. As of February 1, 2003, substantially all Fingerhut assets had been disposed of and substantially all Fingerhut liabilities had been settled. Comparison of the 52 Weeks Ended February 1, 2003 and the 52 Weeks Ended February 2, 2002. Net income for 2002 totaled $818 million compared to a net loss for 2001 of $276 million. Net sales for 2002 totaled $15,435 million, compared to net sales of $15,651 million for 2001, a decrease of 1.4%. The overall sales trend in 2002 was negatively impacted by a difficult economic climate. On a comparable store basis (sales from stores in operation throughout 2001 and 2002), net sales decreased 3.0% compared to 2001. By family of business, sales were relatively strong in furniture, jewelry and young mens. The weakest businesses were the soft home areas tabletop (china, silver, glass), textiles and housewares. Cost of sales was 60.0% of net sales for 2002, compared to 61.2% for 2001. Cost of sales as a percent of net sales, excluding $53 million in inventory valuation adjustments, was 60.9% in 2001. The cost of sales rate in 2002 benefited from lower net markdowns resulting from the lower inventory levels throughout 2002. The valuation of merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either period. SG&A expenses were 31.3% of net sales for 2002 compared to 30.7% for 2001. Finance charge income on proprietary accounts receivable was $353 million for 2002, down from $361 million in 2001, primarily due to the decrease in average accounts receivable balances. Amounts charged to expense for doubtful proprietary accounts receivable were $143 million for 2002, compared to $128 million in 2001, reflecting slightly higher delinquency rates during 2002. Included in SG&A expenses for 2002 were 10 Table of Contents approximately $68 million of costs, 0.4% of net sales, incurred in the fourth quarter in connection with the Richs Macys consolidation and other announced store closings. These costs were primarily real estate related and also included severance. In 2001, there was approximately $29 million of costs, 0.2% of net sales, incurred in the fourth quarter in connection with store closings included in SG&A expenses, also primarily related to real estate write downs. SG&A expenses in 2002 benefited from lower goodwill and intangible amortization as a result of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Effective February 3, 2002, the Company ceased amortizing goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. SG&A expenses in 2001 included amortization expense of $28 million, 0.2% of net sales, related to goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. The effect of the non amortization provisions of SFAS No. 142 was offset by the impact of higher occupancy related expenses, such as depreciation, rent, taxes and insurance. During 2001, the Company incurred asset impairment and restructuring charges related to its department store business. These costs related primarily to the closing of its Sterns department store division and subsequent integration into its Macys and Bloomingdales operations, the acquisition of Liberty House and subsequent integration into Macys and the reorganization of its department store related catalog and e commerce operations. The Company recorded $215 million of asset impairment and restructuring charges during 2001, including $53 million of inventory valuation adjustments as a part of cost of sales. The $53 million of inventory valuation adjustments included $33 million related to the Sterns conversion, $17 million related to the Liberty House integration and $3 million related to the catalog and e commerce reorganization. These inventory valuation adjustments consisted of markdowns on merchandise that was sold at Sterns, Liberty House or through the Companys catalog and e commerce channels and that would not continue to be sold following the conversion of the Sterns and Liberty House stores and the reorganization of the catalog and e commerce business. The $162 million of asset impairment and restructuring charges included $38 million of costs associated with converting the Sterns stores into Macys (including store remodeling costs, advertising, credit card issuance and promotion and other name change expenses), $35 million of costs to close and sell certain Sterns stores (including lease obligations and other store closing expenses), $18 million of severance costs related to the Sterns closure, $9 million of Sterns duplicate central office costs, $10 million of costs associated with converting the Liberty House stores into Macys (including advertising, credit card issuance and promotion and other name change expenses), $4 million of Liberty House duplicate central office costs, $40 million of fixed asset and capitalized software write downs related to the catalog and e commerce reorganization, $4 million of other exit costs associated with the catalog and e commerce reorganization and $4 million related to an investment write down as a result of the Companys determination, based on uncertain financing alternatives and a comparison to market values of similar publicly traded businesses, that this equity investment was impaired on an other than temporary basis. Net interest expense was $295 million for 2002 compared to $340 million for 2001, primarily due to lower levels of borrowings. The Companys effective income tax rate of 39.1% for 2002 differs from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes and permanent differences arising from other items. The Companys effective income tax rate of 33.5% for 2001 differs from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of the disposition of its Sterns subsidiary, state and local income taxes and permanent differences arising from the amortization of intangible assets and other items. Income tax expense for 2001 reflects a $44 million benefit related to 11 Table of Contents the recognition of the effect of the difference between the financial reporting and tax bases of the Companys investment in Sterns Department Stores, Inc. upon disposition. During 2002, through various transactions, the Company completed the sale of the Arizona Mail Order, Figis and Popular Club Plan businesses conducted by Fingerhuts subsidiaries, completed the sale of Fingerhuts core catalog accounts receivable portfolio, with the buyer assuming $450 million of receivables backed debt, and completed the sale of various other Fingerhut assets, including two distribution centers, the corporate headquarters, a data center, existing inventory, the Fingerhut name, customer lists and other miscellaneous property and equipment. Proceeds from the foregoing sale transactions and collections on customer accounts receivable prior to the sale, net of operating expenses, exceeded the amount estimated to be received through wind down of the portfolio and liquidation of the assets, resulting in an adjustment to the loss on disposal of discontinued operations for 2002 totaling $307 million of income before income taxes of $127 million, or $180 million after income taxes. As of February 1, 2003, substantially all Fingerhut assets had been disposed of and substantially all Fingerhut liabilities had been settled. The net loss from discontinued operations includes only the results of the operating segment of Fingerhut (including its three catalog subsidiaries, Arizona Mail Order, Figis, and Popular Club Plan). The net loss from discontinued operations for 2001 was $14 million. In 2001, the Company also recorded a $770 million loss related to the disposal of Fingerhut, including $292 million of estimated operating losses expected during the wind down period. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal sources of liquidity are cash from operations, cash on hand and the credit facilities described below. Net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2003 was $1,590 million, compared to $1,168 million for 2002. Cash provided by operating activities in 2003 reflects higher income from continuing operations, lower levels of merchandise inventories, higher current income taxes payable and an increase in deferred income taxes payable in 2003 versus a decrease in 2002, partially offset by higher accounts receivable balances. Net cash used by continuing investing activities was $562 million for 2003. Investing activities for 2003 included purchases of property and equipment totaling $508 million and capitalized software of $60 million. Investing activities for 2002 included purchases of property and equipment totaling $568 million and capitalized software of $59 million. The Company opened six department stores, four furniture galleries and two home stores during 2003. The Company intends to open four new department stores and three furniture galleries in 2004, all before the next Christmas season. The Companys annual budgeted capital expenditures are approximately $600 million for 2004, 2005 and 2006. Management presently anticipates funding such expenditures with cash from operations. Net cash used by the Company for continuing financing activities was $819 million in 2003. The Company repaid borrowings of $457 million in 2003, consisting principally of $450 million of 8.5% senior notes. The Company issued $193 million of its common stock, primarily related to the exercise of stock options. On April 16, 2003, the Companys board of directors instituted a $.50 per share annual dividend and paid cash dividends in 2003 of $69 million. 12 Table of Contents On April 16, 2003, the Companys board of directors approved a $500 million increase to the Companys existing stock repurchase program. During 2003, the Company purchased 16.5 million shares of its Common Stock under the stock repurchase program at an approximate cost of $645 million. On February 27, 2004, the Companys board of directors approved a $750 million increase to the Companys existing stock repurchase program. This new authorization is additive to the existing repurchase program, which as of January 31, 2004 had approximately $70 million of authorization remaining. The Company may continue or, from time to time, suspend repurchases of shares under its stock repurchase program, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. Net cash provided to the Company by discontinued operations in 2002 was $924 million, after the payment of approximately $529 million of related debt, primarily due to the sale of Fingerhuts core catalog accounts receivable portfolio and the sale of the Arizona Mail Order, Figis and Popular Club Plan businesses and various other Fingerhut assets. The Company finances its proprietary credit card receivables, which arise solely from sales originated in the conduct of the Companys retail operations, using on balance sheet financing arrangements, including term receivables backed certificates issued by a consolidated subsidiary of the Company together with receivables backed commercial paper issued by another consolidated subsidiary of the Company. At January 31, 2004, these arrangements included a $375 million asset backed commercial paper program. Under the $375 million commercial paper program, a consolidated special purpose subsidiary of the Company issues commercial paper backed by a Class A Variable Funding Certificate issued out of the Prime Credit Card Master Trust which holds the proprietary receivables. If the subsidiary is unable to issue commercial paper to fund maturities of outstanding commercial paper, it has the ability to borrow under a liquidity facility with a number of banks in order to repay the commercial paper. The commercial paper investors have no recourse back to the Company. As of January 31, 2004, and February 1, 2003, there were no such commercial paper or liquidity borrowings outstanding. The Company finances its non proprietary credit card receivables, which arise from transactions originated by merchants that accept third party credit cards issued by the Companys FDS Bank subsidiary, using on balance sheet financing arrangements. Under these arrangements, a consolidated special purpose subsidiary of the Company sells Class A and Class B Variable Funding Certificates, issued out of the Prime Credit Card Master Trust II (Trust II), which holds the non proprietary receivables, to three unrelated bank commercial paper conduit programs. The commercial paper conduit programs have agreed to purchase certificates of up to $700 million in the aggregate. As of January 31, 2004, there were $651 million of receivables backed borrowings outstanding under these arrangements, which were classified as short term debt. In 2003, there was an increase in the Companys non proprietary credit card portfolio due to increased offerings to the Companys customer base. Prior to July 2002, the Company financed its non proprietary credit card receivables through an off balance sheet sale arrangement. During July 2002, in connection with the extension of the financing arrangement related to the Companys non proprietary credit card receivables, the Companys special purpose subsidiary took certain actions which resulted in the consolidation of Trust II for financial reporting purposes. In particular, the documentation governing the arrangement was amended to provide the Companys special purpose subsidiary the ability to unilaterally remove transferred assets from Trust II. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, this amendment disqualified the arrangement for sale treatment and required secured borrowing treatment for all sales of the Companys non proprietary credit card receivables pursuant to this arrangement. The principal assets and liabilities of 13 Table of Contents Trust II consist of non proprietary credit card receivables transferred by the Company to Trust II in transactions previously accounted for as sales under SFAS No. 140 and the related debt issued by Trust II. As a result of the Companys actions, the transfer of receivables and debt are being treated as secured borrowings as of and subsequent to July 5, 2002. All assets and liabilities of Trust II were consolidated at fair value. These actions increased the Companys consolidated assets and debt by $479 million at July 5, 2002. The Company is a party to a five year $1,200 million revolving credit facility that expires in June 2006 and a 364 day $200 million revolving credit facility that expires in June 2004 (which, based upon its assessment of liquidity needs, the Company currently does not expect to extend.) At January 31, 2004, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under either of these facilities, but had $52 million of letters of credit outstanding under the five year facility. The issuance of commercial paper under the Companys $1,400 million unsecured commercial paper facility program (which would reduce to $1,200 million upon the expiration of the 364 day $200 million revolving credit facility) will have the effect, while such commercial paper is outstanding, of reducing the Companys borrowing capacity under the Companys $1,400 million bank credit agreements by an amount equal to the face amount of such commercial paper. There were no borrowings under the commercial paper program in 2003 and as of January 31, 2004, there was no such commercial paper outstanding. The Companys bank credit agreements require the Company to maintain a specified interest coverage ratio of no less than 3.25 and a specified leverage ratio of no more than .62. At January 31, 2004, the Company was in compliance with these requirements by significant margins. Management believes that the likelihood of the Company defaulting on the foregoing debt covenants is remote absent any material negative event affecting the U.S. economy as a whole. However, if the Companys results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the Company is not in compliance with any of its debt covenants and the Company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the Companys debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. At January 31, 2004, the Company had contractual obligations (within the scope of Item 303 (a)(5) of Regulation S K) as follows: Obligations Due, by Period Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (millions) Short term debt $ 902 $ 902 $ $ $ Long term debt 3,103 403 500 2,200 Capital lease obligations 105 11 17 15 62 Other long term liabilities 578 58 123 109 288 Operating leases 2,648 164 316 300 1,868 Letters of credit 66 66 Other obligations 2,099 1,759 196 94 50 $ 9,501 $ 2,960 $ 1,055 $ 1,018 $ 4,468 Other obligations in the foregoing table consist primarily of significant merchandise purchase obligations and obligations under outsourcing arrangements, construction contracts, employment contracts, group medical/dental/life insurance programs and energy and other supply agreements identified by the Company. The Companys merchandise purchase obligations fluctuate on a seasonal basis, typically being 14 Table of Contents higher in the summer and early fall and being lower in the late winter and early spring. The Company purchases a substantial portion of its merchandise inventories and other goods and services otherwise than through binding contracts. Consequently, the amounts shown as Other obligations in the foregoing table do not reflect the total amounts that the Company would need to spend on goods and services in order to operate its businesses in the ordinary course. Management believes that, with respect to the Companys current operations, cash on hand and funds from operations, together with its credit facilities and other capital resources, will be sufficient to cover the Companys reasonably foreseeable working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements in both the near term and over the longer term. The Companys ability to generate funds from operations may be affected by numerous factors, including general economic conditions and levels of consumer confidence and demand; however, the Company expects to be able to manage its working capital levels and capital expenditure amounts so as to maintain its liquidity levels. For short term liquidity, the Company also relies on its $1,400 million unsecured commercial paper facility, a $375 million asset backed commercial paper program relating to the Companys proprietary credit card receivables and three asset backed bank conduit commercial paper programs relating to the Companys non proprietary credit card receivables in an aggregate amount of $700 million (all of which are discussed above). Access to the unsecured commercial paper program is primarily dependent on the Companys credit rating; a downgrade in its short term rating could hinder its ability to access this market. If the Company is unable to access the unsecured commercial paper market, it has the ability to access $1,400 million pursuant to its bank credit agreements, subject to compliance with the interest coverage and leverage ratio requirements discussed above and other requirements under the agreements. The asset backed commercial paper programs are used to finance the Companys proprietary and non proprietary credit card receivables. These programs are extended annually and can be used to finance the receivables as long as the net portfolio yields remain positive. Depending upon conditions in the capital markets and other factors, the Company will from time to time consider the issuance of debt (both unsecured and asset backed) or other securities, or other possible capital markets transactions, the proceeds of which could be used to refinance current indebtedness or for other corporate purposes. Management believes the department store business and other retail businesses will continue to consolidate. The Company intends from time to time to consider additional acquisitions of, and investments in, department stores and other complementary assets and companies. Acquisition transactions, if any, are expected to be financed through a combination of cash on hand and from operations and the possible issuance from time to time of long term debt or other securities. Critical Accounting Policies Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company evaluates the collectibility of its proprietary and non proprietary accounts receivable based on a combination of factors, including analysis of historical trends, aging of accounts receivable, write off experience and expectations of future performance. Proprietary and non proprietary accounts receivable are considered delinquent if more than one scheduled minimum payment is missed. Delinquent proprietary accounts are generally written off automatically after the passage of 210 days without receiving a full scheduled monthly payment. Delinquent non proprietary accounts are generally written off automatically after the passage of 180 days without receiving a full scheduled monthly payment. Accounts are written off sooner in the event of customer bankruptcy or other circumstances that make further collection unlikely. The Company reserves for doubtful proprietary accounts based on a loss to collections 15 Table of Contents rate and doubtful non proprietary accounts based on a roll reserve rate. At January 31, 2004, a 0.1 percentage point change in the result of the loss to collections rate would impact the proprietary reserve for doubtful accounts by $2 million. At January 31, 2004, a 0.1 percentage point change in the result of the roll reserve rate would impact the non proprietary reserve for doubtful accounts by $1 million. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the last in, first out (LIFO) retail inventory method. Under the retail inventory method, inventory is segregated into departments of merchandise having similar characteristics, and is stated at its current retail selling value. Inventory retail values are converted to a cost basis by applying specific average cost factors for each merchandise department. Cost factors represent the average cost to retail ratio for each merchandise department based on beginning inventory and the fiscal year purchase activity. The retail inventory method inherently requires management judgments and contains estimates, such as the amount and timing of permanent markdowns to clear unproductive or slow moving inventory, which may impact the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margins. Permanent markdowns designated for clearance activity are recorded when the utility of the inventory has diminished. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. When a decision is made to permanently mark down merchandise, the resulting gross profit reduction is recognized in the period the markdown is recorded. The Company receives cash allowances from merchandise vendors as purchase price adjustments. Purchase price adjustments are credited to cost of sales in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 02 16, Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of sales for the period from the last inventory date to the end of the fiscal period. Such estimates are based on experience and the most recent physical inventory results. While it is not possible to quantify the impact from each cause of shrinkage, the Company has loss prevention programs and policies that are intended to minimize shrinkage. Physical inventories are generally taken within each merchandise department twice annually and inventory records are adjusted accordingly. Long Lived Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges The carrying values of long lived assets are periodically reviewed by the Company whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment has occurred. For long lived assets held for use, a potential impairment has occurred if projected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets. The estimate of cash flows includes managements assumptions of cash inflows and outflows directly resulting from the use of those assets in operations. When a potential impairment has occurred, an impairment write down is recorded if the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds its fair value. The Company believes its estimated cash flows are sufficient to support the carrying value of its long lived assets. If estimated cash flows significantly differ in the future, the Company may be required to record asset impairment write downs. For long lived assets held for disposal by sale, an impairment charge is recorded if the carrying amount of the assets exceeds its fair value less costs to sell. Such valuations include estimations of fair values and incremental direct costs to transact a sale. For long lived assets to be abandoned, the Company 16 Table of Contents considers the asset to be disposed of when it ceases to be used. If the Company commits to a plan to abandon a long lived asset before the end of its previously estimated useful life, depreciation estimates are revised accordingly. In addition, liabilities arise such as severance, contractual obligations and other accruals associated with store closings from decisions to dispose of assets. The Company estimates these liabilities based on the facts and circumstances in existence for each restructuring decision. The amounts the Company will ultimately realize or disburse could differ from the amounts assumed in arriving at the asset impairment and restructuring charge recorded. Self Insurance Reserves The Company is self insured for workers compensation and public liability claims up to certain maximum liability amounts. Although the amounts accrued are actuarially determined based on analysis of historical trends of losses, settlements, litigation costs and other factors, the amounts the Company will ultimately disburse could differ from such accrued amounts. Pension and Supplementary Retirement Plan The Company has a funded defined benefit pension plan (the Pension Plan) and an unfunded defined benefit supplementary retirement plan (the SERP). The Company accounts for these plans using SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions. Under SFAS No. 87, pension expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods. Pension expense calculated under SFAS No. 87 is generally independent of funding decisions or requirements. The Company anticipates that pension expense, which was approximately $27 million in 2003, will increase by $35 40 million in 2004. Funding requirements for the Pension Plan are determined by government regulations, not SFAS No. 87. Although no funding contribution was required, the Company made $50 million voluntary funding contributions to the Pension Plan in both 2003 and 2002. The Company currently anticipates that it will not be required to make any additional contributions to the Pension Plan until 2006. The Company has not yet determined whether a voluntary contribution will be made to the Pension Plan prior to this date. At January 31, 2004, the Company had unrecognized actuarial losses of $488 million for the Pension Plan and $115 million for the SERP. These losses will be recognized as a component of pension expense in future years in accordance with SFAS No. 87. The calculation of pension expense and pension liability requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and future actual experience may differ significantly from current expectations. The Company believes that the most critical assumptions relate to the long term rate of return on plan assets (in the case of the Pension Plan), the discount rate used to determine the present value of projected benefit obligations and the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels. The Company has assumed that the Pension Plan assets will generate a long term rate of return of 8.75% for 2004. This rate is lower than the assumed rate of 9.00% used for 2003. The Company develops its long term rate of return assumption by evaluating input from several professional advisors taking into account the asset allocation of the portfolio and long term asset class return expectations, as well as long term inflation assumptions. Pension expense increases as the expected rate of return on the Pension Plan assets decreases. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Pension Plan assets by 0.25% (from 9.0% to 8.75%) increased the estimated 2004 pension expense by approximately $4 million. 17 Table of Contents The Company discounted its future pension obligations using a rate of 6.25% at December 31, 2003, compared to 6.75% at December 31, 2002. The Company determines the appropriate discount rate based on the current yield earned on an index of investment grade long term bonds. Pension liability and future pension expense both increase as the discount rate is reduced. Lowering the discount rate by 0.50% (from 6.75% to 6.25%) increased pension liability at January 31, 2004 by approximately $77 million and increased estimated 2004 pension expense by approximately $13 million. The assumed weighted average rate of increase in future compensation levels was 5.8% as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002 for the Pension Plan, and 7.7% as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002 for the SERP. The Company develops its increase of future compensation level assumption based on recent experience. Pension liability and future pension expense both increase or decrease as the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels is increased or decreased, respectively. Changing the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels by 0.25% would change the projected benefit obligation at January 31, 2004 by approximately $8 million and change estimated 2004 pension expense by approximately $2 million. New Pronouncements In April 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statement No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections. This statement rescinds SFAS No. 4 and 64, which required gains and losses from extinguishments of debt to be classified as extraordinary items. The statement also amends SFAS No. 13, eliminating inconsistencies in certain sale leaseback transactions. The Company adopted this statement on February 2, 2003 and as a result of the adoption of this statement, the Company reclassified $16 million ($10 million after tax), previously reported as an extraordinary item related to debt extinguishment, to interest expense for 2001. In December 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities an interpretation of ARB51 (revised December 2003). This interpretation addresses the consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that contain certain characteristics and is effective January 31, 2004. The Company is adopting this interpretation in accordance with its transitional guidelines. To date, the adoption of this interpretation did not impact the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Prospectively, the Company does not currently believe that the provisions of this interpretation will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 132 (revised 2003), Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits which is effective January 31, 2004. The adoption of this statement is limited to the form and content of disclosures and did not impact the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity. This statement establishes standards for how an entity classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. The adoption of this statement on August 3, 2003 did not impact the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In January 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position 106 1, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. On 18 Table of Contents December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act) was signed into law. The Act introduced both a Medicare prescription drug benefit and a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree healthcare plans. The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2003 and the net postretirement benefit expense for 2003 do not reflect the effects of the Act on the Companys postretirement benefit plans. The FASB plans to issue authoritative guidance related to the accounting for the subsidies in 2004 and, when issued, could require the Company to change previously reported information. Due to the uncertainty related to the forthcoming authoritative guidance, the Company has not yet determined the impact of this position on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Outlook The Company currently expects to achieve diluted earnings per share of $3.90 to $4.00 for fiscal 2004, which ends January 29, 2005. Earnings per share on a diluted basis for the first quarter of 2004 are expected to be 45 48 cents. The tax rate for 2004 is expected to be 38.4 percent. These estimates include store closing and consolidation costs of approximately $31 million: $17 million in the first quarter, $4 million in the second quarter and $10 million in the second half of the year, but do not reflect any costs associated with the previously announced centralization of Macys home related categories of business. Additionally, comparable store sales increases of 2.5 percent to 3.0 percent are forecasted for 2004: up 6.0 to 7.0 percent in the first quarter, up 2.0 to 3.0 percent in the second quarter and up 1.5 to 2.0 percent in the second half of 2004. In estimating comparable store sales and diluted earnings per share, the Company assumed that general economic conditions and consumer confidence and demand would be such that the forecasted amounts of comparable store sales would be achieved. The accuracy of these assumptions and of the resulting forecasts is subject to uncertainties and circumstances beyond the Companys control. Consequently, actual results could differ materially from the forecasted results. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates which may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the Company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. The Company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its customer lending and borrowing activities, which are described in Notes 5 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The majority of the Companys borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. However, the Company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. At January 31, 2004, the Company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments. See Notes 9 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. Based on the Companys market risk sensitive instruments (primarily variable rate debt) outstanding at January 31, 2004, the Company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date. 19 Table of Contents 
 
