Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company is a retail organization operating department stores that sell a wide range of merchandise, including mens, womens and childrens apparel and accessories, cosmetics, home furnishings and other consumer goods in 34 states, Puerto Rico and Guam. The highest concentration of stores are on the west coast, in the southeast and in the northeast. The Companys operations are significantly impacted by competitive pressures from department stores, specialty stores and mass merchandisers and all other retail channels, and general consumer spending levels, including the impact of employment levels. In January 2002, the Companys Board of Directors approved a plan to dispose of the operations of Fingerhut Companies, Inc. (Fingerhut), including the Arizona Mail Order, Figis and Popular Club Plan businesses conducted by Fingerhuts subsidiaries, which were acquired by the Company on March 18, 1999. The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements for all periods account for Fingerhut as a discontinued operation as a result of the Companys decision to dispose of the Fingerhut operations. Unless otherwise indicated, the following discussion relates to the Companys continuing operations. In 2003, the Company commenced the implementation of a strategy to more fully utilize its Macys brand. The Company propelled Macys presence nationwide through successful co branding with the Companys regional department store nameplates. The co branding allowed the Company to magnify the impact of marketing on a nationwide basis, as well as to leverage major events such as the Macys Thanksgiving Day Parade. Continuing with the Companys strategy to more fully utilize its Macys brand, the Company converted all of its co branded regional department stores to the Macys nameplate on March 6, 2005. As a result, the Company currently operates coast to coast exclusively under two retail brands Macys and Bloomingdales. Also in 2005, the Company launched a new nationwide Macys customer loyalty program, called Star Rewards, in coordination with the launch of the Macys nameplate in cities across the country. The program will provide an enhanced level of offers and benefits to Macys best customers. The Company entered 2004 with a continued strategic focus on four key priorities for improving the business over the longer term: differentiating and editing merchandise assortments; simplifying pricing; improving the overall shopping experience; and communicating better with customers through more brand focused and effective marketing. The Company believes that its recent results indicate that these strategies are working and that the customer is responding in a favorable manner. In early 2004, the Company announced a further step in reinventing its department stores the creation of a centralized organization to be responsible for the overall strategy, merchandising and marketing of home related categories of business in all of its Macys branded stores. The centralized operation is expected to accelerate sales in these categories largely by improving and further differentiating the Companys home related merchandise assortments. During 2004, the Company took additional steps to put its strong cash flow to work towards increasing shareholder return, including increasing its annual cash dividend to $.54 per share, increasing its authorization under its share repurchase program, repurchasing approximately $901 million of its Common Stock and repurchasing $274 million of its 8.5% senior notes due 2010. On February 27, 2005, the Company entered into an agreement (the Merger Agreement) with The May Department Stores Company (May) providing for the merger of May with a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the Merger). As a result of the Merger, May stockholders will be entitled to receive in exchange for their May common stock a combination of cash and shares of Company common stock. The Company estimates that the merger payments to May stockholders will total approximately $5.5 billion in cash and 95.9 million shares of Company common stock. The Company has committed to increase its annual dividend to $1 per share following the completion of the Merger. The Merger is expected to have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Mays reported net sales and net earnings for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005 were $14,441 and $524 million, respectively. Mays reported total assets and total liabilities (including ESOP preference shares) at January 29, 2005 were $15,151 million and $10,676 million, respectively. Mays reported long term debt (including the current portion thereof) at January 29, 2005 was $5,807 million. The Company expects that the Merger will be accretive to its earnings per share in 2007. The Company expects to realize approximately $450 million in annual cost savings by 2007, resulting from the consolidation of central functions, division integrations and the adoption of best practices across the combined company. In addition, the Company anticipates incurring approximately $1 billion in one time costs related to the acquisition and integration, spread out over a three year period beginning in 2005. 9 Table of Contents The completion of the Merger is subject to approval by the stockholders of the Company and May and the satisfaction of other customary conditions, including antitrust approval. The Merger is expected to close in the third quarter of 2005. If the Merger Agreement were terminated under specified circumstances, May would be required to pay to the Company a fee in the amount of $350 million. If the Merger Agreement were terminated under certain other specified circumstances, the Company would be required to pay to May a fee in an amount up to $350 million. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following discussion contains forward looking statements that reflect the Companys plans, estimates and beliefs. The Companys actual results could materially differ from those discussed in these forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, particularly in Forward Looking Statements. Results of Operations Comparison of the 52 Weeks Ended January 29, 2005 and the 52 Weeks Ended January 31, 2004. Net income for 2004 totaled $689 million, compared to net income of $693 million for 2003. Net income for 2004 reflects strong sales and gross margin performance in 2004, offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses, interest expense associated with the repurchase of $274 million of the Companys 8.5% senior notes due 2010 and higher income tax expense. Income tax expense during 2003 benefited from a $38 million favorable tax adjustment. Net sales for 2004 totaled $15,630 million, compared to net sales of $15,264 million for 2003, an increase of 2.4%. On a comparable store basis (sales from stores in operation throughout 2003 and 2004), net sales increased 2.6% compared to 2003. Bloomingdales and Burdines Macys produced the strongest sales performance in 2004 compared to 2003. Sales of the Companys private label brands continued to sell extremely well throughout the store and the penetration of the Companys private brands increased in 2004 to 17.4% of sales in Macys branded stores. By family of business, sales were strong in handbags, jewelry and cosmetics as well as in childrens apparel. Cost of sales was 59.5% of net sales for 2004, compared to 59.6% for 2003. Cost of sales consists of the cost of merchandise and inbound freight. Included in cost of sales for 2004 were $36 million of markdowns associated with the Macys home store centralization and the consolidation of six Macys stores operating in Florida into the Burdines Macys organization. These markdowns are primarily related to merchandise that was being sold at Macys branded stores that will not continue to be sold following the home store centralization and the Burdines Macys consolidation. The cost of sales rate and corresponding gross margin in 2004, excluding the home store centralization and the Burdines Macys consolidation markdowns, benefited from lower net markdowns due to the lower inventory levels and improved sales. Merchandise inventories were down 3% at the end of 2004 as compared to the end of 2003. The valuation of merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either period. Selling, general and administrative (SGA) expenses were 31.5% of net sales for 2004 compared to 31.6% for 2003. SGA expenses in 2004 reflect higher pension costs and higher selling related costs, partially offset by improved bad debt expense. Included in SGA expenses for 2004 were approximately $63 million of costs incurred in connection with the home store centralization, the Burdines Macys consolidation and other store closings. Included in SGA expenses for 2003 were approximately $59 million of costs incurred in connection with the Richs Macys and Burdines Macys consolidations and other announced store closings Net interest expense was $284 million for 2004 compared to $257 million for 2003. Net interest expense for 2004 includes $59 million of costs associated with the repurchase of $274 million of the Companys 8.5% senior notes due 2010, partially offset by the impact of lower levels of borrowings. The Companys effective income tax rates of 38.3% for 2004 and 36.0% for 2003 differ from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0%, and on a comparative basis, principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes and the impact of a $38 million favorable tax adjustment in 2003. The favorable tax adjustment in 2003 reduced income tax expense by $38 million and resulted from a change in estimate of the effective tax rate at which existing deferred tax assets and liabilities will ultimately be settled. 10 Table of Contents Comparison of the 52 Weeks Ended January 31, 2004 and the 52 Weeks Ended February 1, 2003. Income from continuing operations and net income for 2003 totaled $693 million, compared to income from continuing operations of $638 million and net income of $818 million for 2002. Net income for 2002 included $180 million of income from the disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax effect. The higher income from continuing operations in 2003 primarily resulted from a combination of lower interest expense and a $38 million favorable income tax adjustment. Net sales for 2003 totaled $15,264 million, compared to net sales of $15,435 million for 2002, a decrease of 1.1%. On a comparable store basis (sales from stores in operation throughout 2002 and 2003), net sales decreased 0.9% compared to 2002. Bloomingdales produced the strongest sales performance in 2003 compared to 2002. Sales of the Companys private label brands continued to outperform the national brands and the penetration of the Companys private brands increased in 2003. By family of business, sales were strong in career apparel and more updated fashions in both mens and womens wear. Sales were also strong in handbags, jewelry, cosmetics, furniture and bedding. Weaker sales trends continued to be experienced in the soft home areas primarily tabletop (china, silver, glass) and housewares. Cost of sales was 59.6% of net sales for 2003, compared to 60.0% for 2002. The cost of sales rate and corresponding gross margin benefited from lower net markdowns due to lower inventory levels throughout 2003 and good receipt management. Merchandise inventories were down 4.3% at the end of 2003 as compared to the end of 2002. The valuation of merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either period. SGA expenses were 31.6% of net sales for 2003 compared to 31.3% for 2002. SGA expenses in actual dollars for 2003 decreased 0.3% compared to 2002. Included in SGA expenses for 2003 were approximately $59 million of costs incurred in connection with the Richs Macys and Burdines Macys consolidations and other announced store closings. Included in SGA expenses for 2002 were approximately $68 million of costs incurred in connection with the Richs Macys consolidation and other announced store closings. Excluding the store closing and consolidation costs in both 2003 and 2002, SGA expenses in actual dollars would be relatively flat compared to 2002. Higher depreciation and amortization expense and increases in pension and medical costs in 2003 were offset by lower selling costs and reductions in pre opening expenses. Net interest expense was $257 million for 2003 compared to $295 million for 2002, primarily due to lower levels of borrowings . The Companys effective income tax rate of 36.0% for 2003 differs from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes and permanent differences arising from other items, partially offset by a favorable tax adjustment. The favorable tax adjustment reduced income tax expense for 2003 by $38 million and resulted from a change in estimate of the effective tax rate at which existing deferred tax assets and liabilities will ultimately be settled. The Companys effective income tax rate of 39.1% for 2002 differs from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes and permanent differences arising from other items. During 2002, through various transactions, the Company completed the sale of the Arizona Mail Order, Figis and Popular Club Plan businesses conducted by Fingerhuts subsidiaries, completed the sale of Fingerhuts core catalog accounts receivable portfolio, with the buyer assuming $450 million of receivables backed debt, and completed the sale of various other Fingerhut assets, including two distribution centers, the corporate headquarters, a data center, existing inventory, the Fingerhut name, customer lists and other miscellaneous property and equipment. Proceeds from the foregoing sale transactions and collections on customer accounts receivable prior to the sale, net of operating expenses, exceeded the amount estimated to be received through wind down of the portfolio and liquidation of the assets, resulting in an adjustment to the loss on disposal of discontinued operations for 2002 totaling $307 million of income before income taxes of $127 million, or $180 million of income after income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal sources of liquidity are cash from operations, cash on hand and the credit facilities described below. 11 Table of Contents Net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2004 was $1,507 million, compared to the $1,776 million provided in 2003. Cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2003 benefited from lower income tax payments resulting from the use of Fingerhut net operating losses. Net cash used by continuing investing activities was $727 million for 2004, compared to $748 million for 2003. Investing activities for 2004 included purchases of property and equipment totaling $467 million, capitalized software of $81 million, an increase in non proprietary accounts receivable of $236 million and a $30 million collection on notes receivable. Investing activities for 2003 included purchases of property and equipment totaling $508 million, capitalized software of $60 million and an increase in non proprietary accounts receivable of $186 million. The Company opened four department stores, four furniture stores and expanded into two additional locations in existing malls during 2004, compared to opening six department stores, four furniture stores and two home stores during 2003. The Company intends to open two new department stores before the fourth quarter of 2005. The Companys annual budgeted capital expenditures with respect to its current operations are approximately $600 million for 2005, 2006 and 2007. Management presently anticipates funding such expenditures with cash from operations. Historically, the Company presented the aggregate cash flows generated from both the Companys proprietary and non proprietary credit card accounts as cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. The Company has changed its presentation of cash flows generated from the non proprietary credit card accounts from operating to investing activities within the consolidated statements of cash flows, as the loans generated were predominately related to activities external to the Companys sales of merchandise and services. As such, the Company has reclassified prior years amounts to conform with the classifications of such amounts for the most recent year. The impact on the respective line items of the statements of cash flows is as follows: 2003 2002 (millions) As Previously Reported (Increase) decrease in accounts receivable $ (257 ) $ 39 Net cash provided by continuing operating activities 1,590 1,168 Net cash used by continuing investing activities (562 ) (637 ) As Reclassified (Increase) decrease in proprietary and other accounts receivable not separately identified $ (71 ) $ 81 Net cash provided by continuing operating activities 1,776 1,210 Increase in non proprietary accounts receivable (186 ) (42 ) Net cash used by continuing investing activities (748 ) (679 ) Net cash used by the Company for continuing financing activities was $837 million 2004, compared to $819 million in 2003. Financing activities in 2004 included debt repayments of $365 million, the acquisition of 18.3 million shares of Company Common Stock at an approximate cost of $901 million, cash dividends paid of $93 million and the issuance of $298 million of Company Common Stock, primarily related to the exercise of stock options. Financing activities in 2003 included debt repayments of $457 million, the acquisition of 16.5 million shares of Company Common Stock at an approximate cost of $645 million, cash dividends paid of $69 million and the issuance of $193 million of Company Common Stock, primarily related to the exercise of stock options. The debt repaid in 2004 includes the repurchase of $274 million of the Companys 8.5% senior notes due 2010 and $85 million of the Companys 6.79% senior debentures due 2027. Certain holders of the Companys 6.79% senior debentures due 2027 elected to have such debentures repaid on July 15, 2004 at 100% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued interest to the date of repayment. As of January 29, 2005, the remaining $165 million of 6.79% senior debentures due 2027 is classified as long term debt. 12 Table of Contents The Companys board of directors approved additional $750 million authorizations to the Companys existing share repurchase program on February 27, 2004 and July 20, 2004. As of January 29, 2005, the share repurchase program had approximately $670 million of authorization remaining. In connection with the proposed acquisition of The May Department Stores Company, the Company has suspended repurchases under the Companys share repurchase program. The Company was party to a 364 Day Credit Agreement, pursuant to which certain financial institutions had provided the Company with a $200 million revolving loan facility which expired June 25, 2004. Based upon an assessment of the Companys liquidity needs, this agreement was not renewed. However, the Companys related $1.2 billion Five Year Credit Agreement, which expires June 29, 2006, remains effective. The Company finances its proprietary credit card receivables, which arise solely from sales originated in the conduct of the Companys retail operations, using on balance sheet financing arrangements, including term receivables backed certificates issued by a consolidated subsidiary of the Company together with receivables backed commercial paper issued by another consolidated subsidiary of the Company. At January 29, 2005, these arrangements included a $375 million asset backed commercial paper program. Under the $375 million commercial paper program, a consolidated special purpose subsidiary of the Company issues commercial paper backed by a Class A Variable Funding Certificate issued out of the Prime Credit Card Master Trust which holds the proprietary receivables. If the subsidiary is unable to issue commercial paper to fund maturities of outstanding commercial paper, it has the ability to borrow under a liquidity facility with a number of banks in order to repay the commercial paper. The commercial paper investors have no recourse back to the Company. As of January 29, 2005, and January 31, 2004, there were no such commercial paper or liquidity borrowings outstanding. The Company finances its non proprietary credit card receivables, which arise from transactions originated by merchants that accept third party credit cards issued by the Companys FDS Bank subsidiary, using on balance sheet financing arrangements. Under these arrangements, a consolidated special purpose subsidiary of the Company sells Class A and Class B Variable Funding Certificates, issued out of the Prime Credit Card Master Trust II (Trust II), which holds the non proprietary receivables, to three unrelated bank commercial paper conduit programs. During 2004, the aggregate size of the commercial paper conduit programs used to finance the Companys non proprietary credit card receivables was increased from $700 million to $850 million. As of January 29, 2005, there were $836 million of receivables backed borrowings outstanding under these arrangements, which were classified as short term debt. In 2003 and 2004, there was an increase in the Companys non proprietary credit card portfolio due to greater penetration of the Companys customer base. Prior to July 2002, the Company financed its non proprietary credit card receivables through an off balance sheet sale arrangement. During July 2002, in connection with the extension of the financing arrangement related to the Companys non proprietary credit card receivables, the Companys special purpose subsidiary took certain actions which resulted in the consolidation of Trust II for financial reporting purposes. In particular, the documentation governing the arrangement was amended to provide the Companys special purpose subsidiary the ability to unilaterally remove transferred assets from Trust II. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, this amendment disqualified the arrangement for sale treatment and required secured borrowing treatment for all sales of the Companys non proprietary credit card receivables pursuant to this arrangement. The principal assets and liabilities of Trust II consist of non proprietary credit card receivables transferred by the Company to Trust II in transactions previously accounted for as sales under SFAS No. 140 and the related debt issued by Trust II. As a result of the Companys actions, the transfer of receivables and debt are being treated as secured borrowings as of and subsequent to July 5, 2002. All assets and liabilities of Trust II were consolidated at fair value. These actions increased the Companys consolidated assets and debt by $479 million at July 5, 2002. The Company is a party to a Five Year $1,200 million unsecured revolving credit facility that expires in June 2006. At January 29, 2005, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under this facility, but had $44 million of letters of credit outstanding under the facility. The issuance of commercial paper under the Companys $1,200 million unsecured commercial paper facility program will have the effect, while such commercial paper is outstanding, of reducing the Companys borrowing capacity under the Companys $1,200 million bank credit agreements by an amount equal to the face amount of such commercial paper. There were no borrowings under the commercial paper program in 2004 or as of January 29, 2005. The Companys bank credit agreement requires the Company to maintain a specified interest coverage ratio of no less than 3.25 and a specified leverage ratio of no more than .62. The interest coverage ratio for 2004 was 7.83 and at January 29, 2005 the leverage ratio was .39. Management believes that the likelihood of the Company defaulting on them in the future is remote 13 Table of Contents absent any material negative event affecting the U.S. economy as a whole. However, if the Companys results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the Company is not in compliance with any of its debt covenants and the Company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the Companys debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. At January 29, 2005, the Company had contractual obligations (within the scope of Item 303 (a)(5) of Regulation S K) as follows: Obligations Due, by Period Less than 1 3 3 5 More than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (millions) Short term debt $ 1,238 $ 1,238 $ $ $ Long term debt 2,593 1 850 1,742 Interest on debt 2,210 201 355 310 1,344 Capital lease obligations 94 9 16 13 56 Other long term liabilities 581 52 102 111 316 Operating leases 3,031 165 336 306 2,224 Letters of credit 46 46 Other obligations 1,835 1,568 170 97 $ 11,628 $ 3,279 $ 980 $ 1,687 $ 5,682 Other obligations in the foregoing table consist primarily of significant merchandise purchase obligations and obligations under outsourcing arrangements, construction contracts, employment contracts, group medical/dental/life insurance programs and energy and other supply agreements identified by the Company. The Companys merchandise purchase obligations fluctuate on a seasonal basis, typically being higher in the summer and early fall and being lower in the late winter and early spring. The Company purchases a substantial portion of its merchandise inventories and other goods and services otherwise than through binding contracts. Consequently, the amounts shown as Other obligations in the foregoing table do not reflect the total amounts that the Company would need to spend on goods and services in order to operate its businesses in the ordinary course. Excluding the financing requirements necessary to effect the Merger, as well as to fund the combined companys operations, management believes that, with respect to the Companys current operations, cash on hand and funds from operations, together with its credit facilities and other capital resources, will be sufficient to cover the Companys reasonably foreseeable working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements in both the near term and over the longer term. The Companys ability to generate funds from operations may be affected by numerous factors, including general economic conditions and levels of consumer confidence and demand; however, the Company expects to be able to manage its working capital levels and capital expenditure amounts so as to maintain sufficient levels of liquidity. For short term liquidity, the Company also relies on its $1,200 million unsecured commercial paper facility, its $375 million asset backed commercial paper program relating to the Companys proprietary credit card receivables and three asset backed bank conduit commercial paper programs relating to the Companys non proprietary credit card receivables in an aggregate amount of $850 million (all of which are discussed above). Access to the unsecured commercial paper program is primarily dependent on the Companys credit rating; a downgrade in its short term rating could hinder its ability to access this market. If the Company is unable to access the unsecured commercial paper market, it has the ability to access $1,200 million pursuant to its bank credit agreement, subject to compliance with the interest coverage and leverage ratio requirements discussed above and other requirements under the agreements. The asset backed commercial paper programs are used to finance the Companys proprietary and non proprietary credit card receivables. These programs are extended annually and can be used to finance the receivables as long as the net portfolio yields remain positive and the Company remains in compliance with other requirements under these agreements. Depending upon conditions in the capital markets and other factors, the Company will from time to time consider the issuance of debt (both unsecured and asset backed) or other securities, or other possible capital markets transactions, the proceeds of which could be used to refinance current indebtedness or for other corporate purposes. Management believes the department store business and other retail businesses will continue to consolidate. The Company intends from time to time to consider additional acquisitions of, and investments in, department stores and other complementary assets and companies. Acquisition transactions, including the proposed acquisition of The May Department Stores Company, are expected to be financed from one or more of the following sources: cash on hand, cash from operations, 14 Table of Contents proceeds from possible transactions involving our credit card related operations, borrowings under existing or new credit facilities and the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or other securities, including Common Stock. Critical Accounting Policies Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company evaluates the collectibility of its proprietary and non proprietary accounts receivable based on a combination of factors, including analysis of historical trends, aging of accounts receivable, write off experience and expectations of future performance. Proprietary and non proprietary accounts receivable are considered delinquent if more than one scheduled minimum payment is missed. Delinquent proprietary accounts are generally written off automatically after the passage of 210 days without receiving a full scheduled monthly payment. Delinquent non proprietary accounts are generally written off automatically after the passage of 180 days without receiving a full scheduled monthly payment. Accounts are written off sooner in the event of customer bankruptcy or other circumstances that make further collection unlikely. The Company reserves for doubtful proprietary accounts based on a loss to collections rate and doubtful non proprietary accounts based on a roll reserve rate. At January 29, 2005, a 0.1 percentage point change in the result of the loss to collections rate would impact the proprietary reserve for doubtful accounts by $2 million. At January 29, 2005, a 0.1 percentage point change in the result of the roll reserve rate would impact the non proprietary reserve for doubtful accounts by $1 million. Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the last in, first out (LIFO) retail inventory method. Under the retail inventory method, inventory is segregated into departments of merchandise having similar characteristics, and is stated at its current retail selling value. Inventory retail values are converted to a cost basis by applying specific average cost factors for each merchandise department. Cost factors represent the average cost to retail ratio for each merchandise department based on beginning inventory and the fiscal year purchase activity. The retail inventory method inherently requires management judgments and contains estimates, such as the amount and timing of permanent markdowns to clear unproductive or slow moving inventory, which may impact the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margins. Permanent markdowns designated for clearance activity are recorded when the utility of the inventory has diminished. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. When a decision is made to permanently mark down merchandise, the resulting gross profit reduction is recognized in the period the markdown is recorded. The Company receives cash allowances from merchandise vendors as purchase price adjustments. Purchase price adjustments are credited to cost of sales in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 02 16, Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of sales for the period from the last inventory date to the end of the fiscal period. Such estimates are based on experience and the most recent physical inventory results. While it is not possible to quantify the impact from each cause of shrinkage, the Company has loss prevention programs and policies that are intended to minimize shrinkage. Physical inventories are generally taken within each merchandise department twice annually and inventory records are adjusted accordingly. Long Lived Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges The carrying values of long lived assets are periodically reviewed by the Company whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment has occurred. For long lived assets held for use, a potential impairment has occurred if projected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets. The estimate of cash flows includes managements assumptions of cash inflows and outflows directly resulting from the use of those assets in operations. When a potential impairment has occurred, an impairment write down is recorded if the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds its fair value. The Company believes its estimated cash flows are sufficient to support the carrying value of its long lived assets. If estimated cash flows significantly differ in the future, the Company may be required to record asset impairment write downs. 15 Table of Contents For long lived assets held for disposal by sale, an impairment charge is recorded if the carrying amount of the assets exceeds its fair value less costs to sell. Such valuations include estimations of fair values and incremental direct costs to transact a sale. For long lived assets to be abandoned, the Company considers the asset to be disposed of when it ceases to be used. If the Company commits to a plan to abandon a long lived asset before the end of its previously estimated useful life, depreciation estimates are revised accordingly. In addition, liabilities arise such as severance, contractual obligations and other accruals associated with store closings from decisions to dispose of assets. The Company estimates these liabilities based on the facts and circumstances in existence for each restructuring decision. The amounts the Company will ultimately realize or disburse could differ from the amounts assumed in arriving at the asset impairment and restructuring charge recorded. Self Insurance Reserves The Company is self insured for workers compensation and public liability claims up to certain maximum liability amounts. Although the amounts accrued are actuarially determined based on analysis of historical trends of losses, settlements, litigation costs and other factors, the amounts the Company will ultimately disburse could differ from such accrued amounts. Pension and Supplementary Retirement Plan The Company has a funded defined benefit pension plan (the Pension Plan) and an unfunded defined benefit supplementary retirement plan (the SERP). The Company accounts for these plans using SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions. Under SFAS No. 87, pension expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods. Pension expense calculated under SFAS No. 87 is generally independent of funding decisions or requirements. The Company anticipates that pension expense and other retirement costs will increase by approximately $25 million in 2005, compared to 2004. Funding requirements for the Pension Plan are determined by government regulations, not SFAS No. 87. Although no funding contribution was required, the Company made a $100 million voluntary funding contribution to the Pension Plan in 2004 and a $50 million voluntary funding contribution to the Pension Plan in 2003. The Company currently anticipates that it will not be required to make any additional contributions to the Pension Plan until 2009. The Company has not yet determined whether a voluntary contribution will be made to the Pension Plan prior to this date. At January 29, 2005, the Company had unrecognized actuarial losses of $506 million for the Pension Plan and $106 million for the SERP. These losses will be recognized as a component of pension expense in future years in accordance with SFAS No. 87. The calculation of pension expense and pension liability requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and future actual experience may differ significantly from current expectations. The Company believes that the most critical assumptions relate to the long term rate of return on plan assets (in the case of the Pension Plan), the discount rate used to determine the present value of projected benefit obligations and the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels. The Company has assumed that the Pension Plan assets will generate a long term rate of return of 8.75% for 2005 and 2004. The Company develops its long term rate of return assumption by evaluating input from several professional advisors taking into account the asset allocation of the portfolio and long term asset class return expectations, as well as long term inflation assumptions. Pension expense increases as the expected rate of return on the Pension Plan assets decreases. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Pension Plan assets by 0.25% (from 8.75% to 8.50%) would increase the estimated 2005 pension expense by approximately $4 million. The Company discounted its future pension obligations using a rate of 5.75% at December 31, 2004, compared to 6.25% at December 31, 2003. The Company determines the appropriate discount rate with reference to the current yield earned on an index of investment grade long term bonds and the impact of a yield curve analysis to account for the difference in duration between the long term bonds and the Pension Plans and SERPs estimated payments. Pension liability and future pension expense both increase as the discount rate is reduced. Lowering the discount rate by 0.50% (from 6.25% to 5.75%) 16 Table of Contents increased the projected benefit obligation at January 29, 2005 by approximately $98 million and increased estimated 2005 pension expense by approximately $17 million. The assumed weighted average rate of increase in future compensation levels was 5.4% as of December 31, 2004 and 5.8% as of December 31, 2003 for the Pension Plan, and 7.2% as of December 31, 2004 and 7.7% as of December 31, 2003 for the SERP. The Company develops its increase of future compensation level assumption based on recent experience. Pension liability and future pension expense both increase or decrease as the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels is increased or decreased, respectively. Changing the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels by 0.25% would change the projected benefit obligation at January 29, 2005 by approximately $7 million and change estimated 2005 pension expense by approximately $2 million. New Pronouncements In December 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities an interpretation of ARB No. 51 (revised December 2003). This interpretation addresses the consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that contain certain characteristics and was fully effective May 1, 2004. The adoption of this interpretation did not impact the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In May 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position 106 2, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (FSP 106 2). On December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act) was signed into law. The Act introduced both a Medicare prescription drug benefit and a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree healthcare plans. The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at January 29, 2005 and the net postretirement benefit expense for 2005 reflects the effects of the Act on the Companys postretirement benefit plans. The adoption of this position did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs An Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. This statement amends the guidance in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, Inventory Pricing, to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material (spoilage) and is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123R). This statement is a revision of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, and supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS 123R requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. Under the provisions of this statement, the Company must determine the appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing share based payments, the amortization method for compensation cost and the transition method to be used at the date of adoption. The transition alternatives include retrospective and prospective adoption methods. Under the retrospective method, prior periods may be restated based on the amounts previously recognized under SFAS No. 123 for purposes of pro forma disclosures (see Note 1) either for all periods presented or as of the beginning of the year of adoption. The prospective method requires that compensation expense be recognized beginning with the effective date, based on the requirements of this statement, for all share based payments granted after the effective date, and based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123, for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of this statement that remain unvested on the effective date. The provisions of this statement are effective as of the beginning of the first interim or annual reporting period that begins after June 15, 2005. The Company is currently evaluating the requirements of this revision and has not determined its method of adoption. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets An Amendment of APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions. This statement eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29, and 17 Table of Contents replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. The provisions of the statement are effective for fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Outlook The following statements do not reflect the proposed acquisition of The May Department Stores Company or any potential transactions involving the Companys credit card operations. The Company currently expects to achieve diluted earnings per share in 2005 of $4.55 to $4.65: 45 to 50 cents per share in the first quarter, 80 to 85 cents per share in the second quarter and $3.20 to $3.30 per share in the second half of the fiscal year, which ends January 28, 2006. Comparable store sales increases of approximately 2.0 percent are forecasted for 2005: up about 1.0 percent for the first half of the fiscal year and up approximately 3.0 percent in the second half of 2005. In estimating comparable store sales and diluted earnings per share, the Company assumed that: general economic conditions and consumer confidence and demand would be such that the forecasted amounts of comparable store sales would be achieved; the gross margin rate would be relatively flat in 2005 as compared to 2004, excluding store closing, centralization and consolidation costs in 2004; and SGA expenses as a percent to sales in 2005 would be up slightly compared to 2004, excluding store closing, centralization and consolidation costs in 2004. Forecasted results for 2005 reflect a lower effective tax rate of 37.7% and no planned store closing or consolidation costs. The accuracy of these assumptions and the resulting forecasts is subject to uncertainties and circumstances beyond the Companys control. Consequently, actual results could differ materially from the forecasted results. 18 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates which may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the Company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. The Company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its customer lending and borrowing activities, which are described in Notes 3 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The majority of the Companys borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. However, the Company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. At January 29, 2005, the Company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments. See Notes 7 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. Based on the Companys market risk sensitive instruments (primarily variable rate debt) outstanding at January 29, 2005, the Company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date. 
 
