Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company is a retail organization operating retail stores and Internet websites under two brands (Macys and Bloomingdales) that sell a wide range of merchandise, including mens, womens and childrens apparel and accessories, cosmetics, home furnishings and other consumer goods in 45 states, the District of Columbia, Guam and Puerto Rico. As of January 31, 2009, the Companys operations were conducted through seven operating divisions four geographic Macys divisions, macys.com, Bloomingdales, and bloomingdales.com which are aggregated into one reporting segment in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. For the past several years, the Company has been focused on four key priorities for improving the business over the longer term: (i) differentiating and editing merchandise assortments; (ii) simplifying pricing; (iii) improving the overall shopping experience; and (iv) communicating better with customers through more brand focused and effective marketing. On August 30, 2005, the Company completed its merger with May (the Merger). The Company added about 400 Macys locations nationwide in 2006 as it converted the regional department store nameplates acquired through the Merger. In connection with the conversion process, the Company identified certain store locations and distribution center facilities to be divested. Following the Merger, the Company announced its intention to dispose of the acquired Lord & Taylor division and the acquired bridal group business, which included the operations of Davids Bridal, After Hours Formalwear and Priscilla of Boston. The sale of the Lord & Taylor division was completed in October 2006, the sale of Davids Bridal and Priscilla of Boston was completed in January 2007 and the sale of After Hours Formalwear was completed in April 2007. As a result of the Companys disposition of the Lord & Taylor division and bridal group businesses, these businesses were reported as discontinued operations. Unless otherwise indicated, the following discussion relates to the Companys continuing operations. In June 2005, the Company entered into a Purchase, Sale and Servicing Transfer Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Citibank, N.A. pursuant to which the Company agreed to sell to Citibank (i) the proprietary and non proprietary credit card accounts owned by the Company, together with related receivables balances, and the capital stock of Prime Receivables Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, which owned all of the Companys interest in the Prime Credit Card Master Trust (the FDS Credit Assets), (ii) the Macys credit card accounts owned by GE Capital Consumer Card Co. (GE Bank), together with related receivables balances (the GE/Macys Credit Assets), upon the termination of the Companys credit card program agreement with GE Bank, and (iii) the proprietary credit card accounts owned by May, together with related receivables balances (the May Credit Assets). The purchase by Citibank of the FDS Credit Assets was completed on October 24, 2005, the purchase by Citibank of the GE/Macys Credit Assets was completed on May 1, 2006 and the purchase by Citibank of the May Credit Assets was completed on May 22, 2006 and July 17, 2006. In connection with the Purchase Agreement, the Company and Citibank entered into a long term marketing and servicing alliance pursuant to the terms of a Credit Card Program Agreement (the Program Agreement) with an initial term of 10 years expiring on July 17, 2016 and, unless terminated by either party as of the expiration of the initial term, an additional renewal term of three years. The Program Agreement provides for, among other things, (i) the ownership by Citibank of the accounts purchased by Citibank pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, (ii) the ownership by Citibank of new accounts opened by the Companys customers, (iii) the provision of credit by Citibank to the holders of the credit cards associated with the foregoing accounts, (iv) the servicing of the foregoing accounts, and (v) the allocation between Citibank and the Company of the economic benefits and burdens associated with the foregoing and other aspects of the alliance. The transactions under the Purchase Agreement have provided the Company with significant liquidity (i) through receipt of the purchase price (which included a premium) for the divested credit card accounts and 16 related receivable balances and (ii) because the Company will no longer have to finance significant accounts receivable balances associated with the divested credit card accounts going forward, and will receive payments from Citibank immediately for sales under such credit card accounts. Although the Companys future cash flows will include payments to the Company under the Program Agreement, these payments will be less than the net cash flow that the Company would have derived from the finance charge and other income generated on the receivables balances, net of the interest expense associated with the Companys financing of these receivable balances. In February 2008, the Company announced a new initiative to strengthen local market focus and enhance selling service expected to enable the Company to both accelerate same store sales growth and reduce expense. The localization initiative, called My Macys, was developed with the goal to accelerate sales growth in existing locations by ensuring that core customers surrounding each Macys store find merchandise assortments, size ranges, marketing programs and shopping experiences that are custom tailored to their needs. To maximize the results from My Macys, the Company has taken action in certain markets that: concentrate more management talent in local markets, effectively reducing the span of control over local stores; create new positions in the field to work with division central planning and buying executives in helping to understand and act on the merchandise needs of local customers; and empower locally based executives to make more and better decisions. In combination with the localization initiative, the Company consolidated the Minneapolis based Macys North organization into New York based Macys East, the St. Louis based Macys Midwest organization into Atlanta based Macys South and the Seattle based Macys Northwest organization into San Francisco based Macys West. The Atlanta based division was renamed Macys Central. The savings from this division consolidation process, net of the amount invested in the localization initiative and increased store staffing levels, are expected to reduce selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, as compared to expected levels absent the consolidation, by approximately $100 million per year, beginning in 2009. The partial year benefit in SG&A expenses for 2008 was more than $60 million. The Company incurred approximately $146 million of one time costs in 2008 for expenses related to the division consolidations and the localization initiative announced in February 2008, consisting primarily of severance and other human resource related costs. In February 2009, the Company announced the expansion of the My Macys localization initiative across the country. As My Macys is rolled out nationally to new local markets, the Companys Macys branded stores will be reorganized into a unified operating structure to support the Macys business. Existing division central office organizations will be eliminated in New York based Macys East, San Francisco based Macys West, Atlanta based Macys Central and Miami based Macys Florida. This is expected to reduce central office and administrative expense, eliminate duplication, sharpen execution, and help the company to partner more effectively with its suppliers and business partners. The savings from the My Macys expansion announced in February 2009, net of the amount to be invested in the localization initiative, are expected to reduce SG&A expenses, as compared to expected levels absent the consolidation, by approximately $400 million per year, beginning in 2010. The partial year benefit in SG&A expenses for 2009 is estimated at approximately $250 million. The Company expects to incur approximately $400 million in one time costs for expenses related to the My Macys expansion, consisting primarily of severance and other human resource related costs. The Company incurred $30 million of these severance costs in 2008 in connection with the My Macys expansion. The Companys operations are impacted by competitive pressures from department stores, specialty stores, mass merchandisers and all other retail channels. The Companys operations are also impacted by general consumer spending levels, including the impact of general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods and the effects of weather or natural disasters and other factors over which the Company has little or no control. In recent periods, consumer spending levels have been adversely affected by a number of factors, including substantial declines in the level of general economic activity and real estate and investment values, substantial increases in consumer pessimism, unemployment and the costs of basic necessities, and a significant tightening of consumer credit. These conditions have reduced the amount of funds that consumers are willing and able to spend for discretionary purchases, including purchases of some of the merchandise offered by the Company. These conditions have also decreased the projected future cash flows attributable to the Companys operations, 17 including the projected future cash flows assumed in connection with the Merger, resulting in the Company recording in the fourth quarter of 2008 a reduction in the carrying value of its goodwill, and a related non cash impairment charge, in the estimated amount of $5,382 million. The effects of the factors and conditions described above may be experienced differently, or at different times, in the various geographic regions in which the Company operates, in relation to the different types of merchandise that the Company offers for sale, or in relation to the Companys Macys branded and Bloomingdales branded operations. All of these effects, however, ultimately affect the Companys overall operations. The Company cannot predict whether, when or the manner in which the economic conditions described above will change. Based on its assessment of current and anticipated market conditions and its most recent fourth quarter performance, the Company is assuming that its comparable store sales in 2009 for most of the Companys operating divisions and the Company as a whole will be down in the range of 6% to 8% from 2008 levels. The discussion in this Item 7 should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. The discussion in this Item 7 contains forward looking statements that reflect the Companys plans, estimates and beliefs. The Companys actual results could materially differ from those discussed in these forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in Risk Factors and Forward Looking Statements. Results of Operations Comparison of the 52 Weeks Ended January 31, 2009 and the 53 Weeks Ended February 2, 2008. The net loss for 2008 was $4,803 million compared to net income of $893 million for 2007. The net loss for 2008 reflects the lower sales trend and includes the impact of $5,382 million of estimated goodwill impairment charges, $187 million of division consolidation costs and store closing related costs and $211 million of asset impairment charges. The net income for 2007 included income from continuing operations of $909 million and a loss from discontinued operations of $16 million. The income from continuing operations in 2007 included the impact of $219 million of May integration costs. The loss from discontinued operations in 2007 included the loss on disposal of the After Hours Formalwear business. Net sales for 2008 totaled $24,892 million, compared to net sales of $26,313 million for 2007, a decrease of $1,421 million or 5.4%. On a comparable store basis, net sales for 2008 were down 4.6% compared to 2007. Sales in 2008 were strongest at macys.com and bloomingdales.com and were weakest at Bloomingdales, Macys West and Macys Florida. 2008 sales at Bloomingdales were weakest during the third and fourth quarters. Sales from the Companys Internet businesses in 2008 increased 29.0% compared to 2007 and positively affected the Companys 2008 comparable store sales by 0.8%. The Company continues to be encouraged by the sales performance in the piloted My Macys districts. Sales of the Companys private label brands represented approximately 19% of net sales in the Macys branded stores in both 2008 and 2007. By family of business, sales in 2008 were strongest in young mens apparel, shoes and housewares. The weaker businesses during 2008 were womens apparel and furniture. The Company calculates comparable store sales as sales from stores in operation throughout 2007 and 2008 and all Internet sales. Stores undergoing remodeling, expansion or relocation remain in the comparable store sales calculation unless the store is closed for a significant period of time. Definitions and calculations of comparable store sales differ among companies in the retail industry. Cost of sales was $15,009 million or 60.3% of net sales for 2008, compared to $15,677 million or 59.6% of net sales for 2007, a decrease of $668 million. The cost of sales rate for 2008 as a percent of net sales reflects the weak sales trend and resulting increased net markdowns taken to maintain inventories at appropriate levels. The valuation of department store merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either period. SG&A expenses were $8,481 million or 34.1% of net sales for 2008, compared to $8,554 million or 32.5% of net sales for 2007, a decrease of $73 million. The SG&A rate as a percent to net sales was higher in 2008, as compared to 2007, primarily because of weaker sales. SG&A expenses in 2008 benefited from consolidation related expense savings, lower selling related costs, lower depreciation and amortization expenses, lower stock 18 based compensation expenses and lower pension and supplementary retirement plan expenses, partially offset by lower income from credit, higher logistics related costs in support of the Companys multi channel operations and higher advertising expenses. Depreciation and amortization expense was $1,278 million for 2008, compared to $1,304 million for 2007. Stock based compensation expense was $43 million for 2008, compared to $60 million for 2007. Pension and supplementary retirement plan expense amounted to $114 million for 2008, compared to $132 million for 2007. Income from credit operations was $372 million in 2008 as compared to $450 million in 2007. Advertising expense, net of cooperative advertising allowances, was $1,239 million for 2008 compared to $1,194 million for 2007. Division consolidation costs and store closing related costs for 2008 amounted to $187 million and included $146 million of costs and expenses associated with the division consolidation and localization initiatives announced in February 2008, primarily severance and other human resource related costs, $30 million of severance costs in connection with the division consolidation and localization initiatives announced in February 2009, and $11 million of costs and expenses related to the store closings announced in January 2009. Asset impairment charges for 2008 amounted to $211 million and included $96 million of asset impairment charges related to properties held and used, $40 million of asset impairment charges related to the store closings announced in January 2009, $63 million of asset impairment charges associated with acquired indefinite lived private brand tradenames and $12 million of asset impairment charges associated with marketable securities. Estimated goodwill impairment charges for 2008 amounted to $5,382 million, which represents a write down of goodwill in the amount of the excess of the previous carrying value of goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill, as calculated under the two step goodwill impairment process in accordance with SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). May integration costs for 2007 amounted to $219 million. Approximately $121 million of these costs related to impairment charges in connection with store locations and distribution facilities planned to be closed and disposed of, including $74 million related to nine underperforming stores identified in the fourth quarter of 2007 for closure. The remaining $98 million of May integration costs for 2007 included additional costs related to closed locations, severance, system conversion costs, impairment charges associated with acquired indefinite lived private brand tradenames and costs related to other operational consolidations, partially offset by approximately $41 million of gains from the sale of previously closed distribution center facilities. Net interest expense was $560 million for 2008, compared to $543 million for 2007, an increase of $17 million. The increase in net interest expense for 2008, as compared to 2007, resulted primarily from higher debt associated with pre funding the refinancing of maturing debt and lower interest income on invested cash due to lower investment rates. The Companys effective income tax rate for 2008 differs from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0%, principally because of the impact of non deductible goodwill impairment charges, the effect of state and local income taxes and the settlement of various tax issues and tax examinations. The Companys effective income tax rate of 31.1% for 2007 differed from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes and the settlement of various tax issues and tax examinations. Federal, state and local income tax expense for 2007 included a benefit of approximately $78 million related to the settlement of a federal income tax examination, primarily attributable to losses related to the disposition of a former subsidiary. For 2007, the loss from the discontinued operations of the acquired After Hours Formalwear business, net of income taxes, was $16 million on sales of approximately $27 million. The loss from discontinued operations included the loss on disposal of the After Hours Formalwear business of $7 million on a pre tax and post tax basis. Comparison of the 52 Weeks Ended February 2, 2008 and the 53 Weeks Ended February 3, 2007. Net income for 2007 decreased to $893 million compared to $995 million for 2006. The net income for 2007 19 included income from continuing operations of $909 million and a loss from discontinued operations of $16 million. The income from continuing operations in 2007 included the impact of $219 million of May integration costs. The loss from discontinued operations in 2007 included the loss on disposal of the After Hours Formalwear business. The net income for 2006 included income from continuing operations of $988 million and income from discontinued operations of $7 million. The income from continuing operations in 2006 included the impact of $628 million of May integration costs and the impact of $191 million of gains on the sale of accounts receivable. The income from discontinued operations for 2006 included the loss on disposal of the Lord & Taylor division and the loss on disposal of the Davids Bridal and Priscilla of Boston businesses. Net sales for 2007 totaled $26,313 million, compared to net sales of $26,970 million for 2006, a decrease of $657 million or 2.4%. On a comparable store basis, net sales decreased 1.3% in 2007 compared to 2006. Sales from the Companys Internet businesses in 2007 increased 56.4% compared to 2006 and positively affected the Companys 2007 comparable store sales by 0.8%. Sales in 2007 were strongest at Bloomingdales and macys.com. Sales of the Companys private label brands in total outperformed the national brands for 2007 and increased to approximately 19% of net sales in Macys branded stores. By family of business, sales in 2007 were strongest in handbags, young mens apparel, coats, watches, luggage and mattresses. The weaker business during 2007 was ladies sportswear. The Company calculated comparable store sales as sales from stores in operation throughout 2006 and 2007 and all Internet sales and mail order sales from continuing businesses, as adjusted for the impact of the 53rd week in 2006. Stores undergoing remodeling, expansion or relocation remain in the comparable store sales calculation unless the store is closed for a significant period of time. Definitions and calculations of comparable store sales differ among companies in the retail industry. Cost of sales was $15,677 million or 59.6% of net sales for 2007, compared to $16,019 million or 59.4% of net sales for 2006, a decrease of $342 million. The cost of sales rate for 2007 reflected higher net markdowns as a percent of net sales intended to keep inventories current. In addition, gross margin in 2006 included $178 million of inventory valuation adjustments related to the integration of May and Macys merchandise assortments. The valuation of department store merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either period. SG&A expenses were $8,554 million or 32.5% of net sales for 2007, compared to $8,678 million or 32.2% of net sales for 2006, a decrease of $124 million. SG&A expenses for 2007 benefited from the achievement of cost savings and merger synergies, primarily related to merchandising, logistics and general management expenses. In addition, SG&A expenses benefited from lower retirement expenses and lower stock based compensation expenses, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expenses, lower credit revenue resulting from the sale of the May Credit Assets in 2006 and higher advertising expenses. SG&A expenses, as a percent to sales was higher in 2007 primarily because of the decrease in sales. Depreciation and amortization expense was $1,304 million for 2007, compared to $1,265 million for 2006. Pension and supplementary retirement plan expense amounted to $132 million for 2007, compared to $158 million for 2006. Stock based compensation expense was $60 million for 2007, compared to $91 million for 2006. Advertising expense was $1,194 million for 2007, compared to $1,171 million for 2006. May integration costs for 2007 amounted to $219 million. Approximately $121 million of these costs related to impairment charges in connection with store locations and distribution facilities planned to be closed and disposed of, including $74 million related to nine underperforming stores identified in the fourth quarter of 2007 for closure. The remaining $98 million of May integration costs for 2007 included additional costs related to closed locations, severance, system conversion costs, impairment charges associated with acquired indefinite lived intangible assets and costs related to other operational consolidations, partially offset by approximately $41 million of gains from the sale of previously closed distribution center facilities. May integration costs for 2006 amounted to $450 million, primarily related to store and distribution center closings and the re branding related marketing and advertising costs, partially offset by gains from the sale of Macys locations. Pre tax gains of approximately $191 million were recorded in 2006 in connection with the sale of certain credit card accounts and receivables. 20 Net interest expense was $543 million for 2007, compared to $390 million for 2006, an increase of $153 million. The increase in net interest expense for 2007, as compared to 2006, resulted from increased levels of borrowings during 2007, primarily associated with the Companys share repurchase program, a gain of approximately $54 million related to the completion of a debt tender offer in the fourth quarter of 2006, and the effect of $17 million of interest income in 2006 related to the settlement of a federal income tax examination. The Companys effective income tax rates of 31.1% for 2007 and 31.7% for 2006 differ from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0%, and on a comparative basis, principally because of the settlement of tax examinations and the effect of state and local income taxes. Federal, state and local income tax expense for 2007 included a benefit of approximately $78 million related to the settlement of a federal income tax examination, primarily attributable to losses related to the disposition of a former subsidiary. Federal, state and local income tax expense for 2006 included a benefit of approximately $80 million related to the settlement of a federal income tax examination, also primarily attributable to losses related to the disposition of a former subsidiary. For 2007, the loss from the discontinued operations of the acquired After Hours Formalwear business, net of income taxes, was $16 million on sales of approximately $27 million. The 2007 loss from discontinued operations included the loss on disposal of the After Hours Formalwear business of $7 million on a pre tax and post tax basis. For 2006, income from the discontinued operations of the acquired Lord & Taylor and bridal group businesses, net of income taxes, was $7 million on sales of approximately $1,741 million. For 2006, discontinued operations also included the loss on disposal of the Lord & Taylor division of $38 million after income taxes and the loss on disposal of the Davids Bridal and Priscilla of Boston businesses of $18 million after income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal sources of liquidity are cash from operations, cash on hand and the credit facility described below. Net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2008 was $1,879 million, compared to the $2,231 million provided in 2007. The decrease in net cash provided by continuing operating activities reflects the net loss in 2008 as compared to net income in 2007, partially offset by the goodwill impairment charges, division consolidation costs and store closing related costs and asset impairment charges in 2008 as compared to May integration costs in 2007. Net cash used by continuing investing activities was $791 million for 2008, compared to net cash used by continuing investing activities of $789 million for 2007. Continuing investing activities for 2008 include purchases of property and equipment totaling $761 million and capitalized software of $136 million, compared to purchases of property and equipment totaling $994 million and capitalized software of $111 million for 2007. Cash flows from continuing investing activities included $38 million and $227 million from the disposition of property and equipment for 2008 and 2007, respectively. In 2007, the Company completed the sale of a majority of the remaining duplicate store and other facility locations associated with the Merger. Continuing investing activities for 2007 also included $66 million of proceeds from the disposition of the discontinued operations of After Hours Formalwear. During 2008, the Company opened seven Macys department stores and two Macys furniture galleries. During 2007, the Company opened nine Macys department stores, one Macys furniture gallery and two Bloomingdales department stores. In 2009, the Company intends to open three new Macys stores and a Macys replacement store, and also plans to reopen two Macys department stores in Houston, Texas that were temporarily closed after Hurricane Ike. The Companys budgeted capital expenditures are approximately $450 million for 2009. Management presently anticipates funding such expenditures with cash from operations. Net cash used by the Company for all continuing financing activities was $365 million for 2008, including the issuance of $650 million of long term debt, the repayment of $666 million of debt, a decrease in outstanding 21 checks of $116 million, and the payment of $221 million of cash dividends. The debt issued during 2008 was $650 million of 7.875% senior notes due 2015. The debt repaid during 2008 included $500 million of 6.625% senior notes due September 1, 2008 and $150 million of 5.95% notes due November 1, 2008. On February 10, 2009, the Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Macys Retail Holdings, Inc., completed a cash tender offer pursuant to which it purchased approximately $199 million of its outstanding 6.30% Senior Notes due April 1, 2009 (resulting in approximately $151 million of such notes remaining outstanding) and approximately $481 million of its outstanding 4.80% Senior Notes due July 15, 2009 (resulting in approximately $119 million of such notes remaining outstanding) for aggregate consideration, including accrued and unpaid interest, of approximately $686 million. By using cash on hand to repurchase and retire this debt early, the Company expects to reduce its interest expense in 2009 by approximately $7 million, net of expenses associated with the debt tender offer. Net cash used by the Company for all continuing financing activities was $2,069 million for 2007, including the issuance of $1,950 million of long term debt, the repayment of $649 million of debt, the acquisition of 85.3 million shares of its common stock at an approximate cost of $3,322 million, the issuance of $257 million of its common stock, primarily related to the exercise of stock options, and the payment of $230 million of cash dividends. The debt issued during 2007 included $1,100 million of 5.35% senior notes due 2012, $500 million of 6.375% senior notes due 2037 and $350 million of 5.875% senior notes due 2013. The debt repaid in 2007 included $400 million of 3.95% senior notes due July 15, 2007, $6 million of 9.93% medium term notes due August 1, 2007 and $225 million of 7.9% senior debentures due October 15, 2007. The Company is a party to a credit agreement with certain financial institutions providing for revolving credit borrowings and letters of credit in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000 million (which amount may be increased to $2,500 million at the option of the Company, subject to the willingness of existing or new lenders to provide commitments for such additional financing) outstanding at any particular time. This agreement is set to expire August 30, 2012. As of January 31, 2009, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under this agreement. The Companys credit agreement was amended in the fourth quarter of 2008 to update both financial covenants of the agreement. The amended agreement requires the Company to maintain a specified interest coverage ratio for the latest four quarters of no less than 3.00 (3.25 after October 2010) and a specified leverage ratio as of and for the latest four quarters of no more than 4.90 (4.75 after October 2009 through October 2010 and then 4.50 thereafter). The interest coverage ratio is defined as EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) over net interest expense and the leverage ratio is defined as debt over EBITDA. For purposes of these calculations EBITDA is calculated as net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization, non cash impairment of goodwill, intangibles and real estate, non recurring cash charges not to exceed in the aggregate $500 million from the date of the amended agreement and extraordinary losses less interest income and non recurring or extraordinary gains. Debt and net interest are adjusted to exclude the premium on acquired debt and the resulting amortization, respectively. The Companys leverage ratio at January 31, 2009 was 3.66 and its interest coverage ratio for 2008 was 4.32. A breach of a restrictive covenant in the Companys credit agreement or the inability of the Company to maintain the financial ratios described above could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. In addition, an event of default would occur under the credit agreement if any indebtedness of the Company in excess of an aggregate principal amount of $150 million becomes due prior to its stated maturity or the holders of such indebtedness become able to cause it to become due prior to its stated maturity. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could, subject to the terms and conditions of the credit agreement, elect to declare the outstanding principal, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. Moreover, most of the Companys senior notes and debentures contain cross default provisions based on the non payment at maturity, or other default after an applicable grace period, of any other debt, the unpaid principal amount of which is not less than $100 million, that could be triggered by an event of default under the credit agreement. In such an event, the Companys senior notes and debentures that contain cross default provisions would also be subject to acceleration. At January 31, 2009, no notes or debentures contain provisions requiring acceleration of payment upon a debt rating downgrade. 22 However, the terms of $3,700 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys senior notes outstanding at that date require the Company to offer to purchase such notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest in specified circumstances involving both a change of control (as defined in the applicable indenture) of the Company and the rating of the notes by specified rating agencies at a level below investment grade. The rate of interest payable in respect of $650 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys senior notes outstanding at January 31, 2009 could be increased by up to 2 percent per annum in the event of one or more downgrades of the notes by specified rating agencies. During 2008, the Company repurchased no shares of its common stock under its share repurchase program. The Companys share repurchase program is currently suspended. As of January 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $850 million of authorization remaining under its share repurchase program. The Company may continue or, from time to time, suspend repurchases of shares under its share repurchase program, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. On June 23, 2008, the Company issued $650 million aggregate principal amount of 7.875% senior notes due 2015. The net proceeds of the debt issuance were used for the repayment of amounts due on debt maturing in 2008. On February 2, 2009, the Companys board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of 5 cents per share on its common stock, payable April 1, 2009 to Macys shareholders of record at the close of business on March 13, 2009. This quarterly dividend is reduced from the previous amount of 13.25 cents per share, which is expected to conserve $138 million of cash in 2009. At January 31, 2009, the Company had contractual obligations (within the scope of Item 303(a)(5) of Regulation S K) as follows: Obligations Due, by Period Total Less than1 Year 1 3Years 3 5Years More than5 Years (millions) Short term debt $ 962 $ 962 $ $ $ Long term debt 8,394 900 1,801 5,693 Interest on debt 6,345 589 1,082 854 3,820 Capital lease obligations 62 7 13 10 32 Other long term liabilities 1,235 10 366 254 605 Operating leases 2,738 235 433 361 1,709 Letters of credit 48 48 Other obligations 2,399 1,969 300 130 $ 22,183 $ 3,820 $ 3,094 $ 3,410 $ 11,859 Short term debt presented above does not reflect the Companys recently completed tender offer. On February 10, 2009, the Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Macys Retail Holdings, Inc., completed a cash tender offer pursuant to which it purchased approximately $199 million of its outstanding 6.30% Senior Notes due April 1, 2009 (resulting in approximately $151 million of such notes remaining outstanding) and approximately $481 million of its outstanding 4.80% Senior Notes due July 15, 2009 (resulting in approximately $119 million of such notes remaining outstanding) for aggregate consideration, including accrued and unpaid interest, of approximately $686 million. By using cash on hand to repurchase and retire this debt early, the Company expects to reduce its interest expense in 2009 by approximately $7 million, net of expenses associated with the debt tender offer. Other obligations in the foregoing table consist primarily of merchandise purchase obligations and obligations under outsourcing arrangements, construction contracts, employment contracts, group medical/dental/life insurance programs, energy and other supply agreements identified by the Company and liabilities for 23 unrecognized tax benefits that the Company expects to settle in cash in the next year. The Companys merchandise purchase obligations fluctuate on a seasonal basis, typically being higher in the summer and early fall and being lower in the late winter and early spring. The Company purchases a substantial portion of its merchandise inventories and other goods and services otherwise than through binding contracts. Consequently, the amounts shown as Other obligations in the foregoing table do not reflect the total amounts that the Company would need to spend on goods and services in order to operate its businesses in the ordinary course. The Company has not included in the contractual obligations table approximately $215 million for long term liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits for various tax positions taken or approximately $65 million of related accrued federal, state and local interest and penalties. These liabilities may increase or decrease over time as a result of tax examinations, and given the status of examinations, the Company cannot reliably estimate the period of any cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. The Company has included in the contractual obligations table $22 million of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits that the Company expects to settle in cash in the next year. The Company has not included in the contractual obligation table the $1,006 million Pension Plan liability. The Companys funding policy is to contribute amounts necessary to satisfy minimum pension funding requirements, including requirements of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, plus such additional amounts from time to time as are determined to be appropriate to improve the Pension Plans funded status. The Pension Plans funded status is affected by many factors including discount rates and the performance of Pension Plan assets. As of the date of this report, the Company is anticipating making required funding contributions to the Pension Plan totaling approximately $295 million to $370 million prior to January 30, 2010. This includes the initiation of quarterly contributions of approximately $30 million and a 2008 Plan year contribution in September 2009 of approximately $175 million to $250 million. Management believes that, with respect to the Companys current operations, cash on hand and funds from operations, together with its credit facility and other capital resources, will be sufficient to cover the Companys reasonably foreseeable working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements and other cash requirements in both the near term and over the longer term. The Companys ability to generate funds from operations may be affected by numerous factors, including general economic conditions and levels of consumer confidence and demand; however, the Company expects to be able to manage its working capital levels and capital expenditure amounts so as to maintain sufficient levels of liquidity. Depending upon conditions in the capital markets and other factors, the Company will from time to time consider the issuance of debt or other securities, or other possible capital markets transactions, the proceeds of which could be used to refinance current indebtedness or for other corporate purposes. Management believes the department store business and other retail businesses will continue to consolidate. The Company intends from time to time to consider additional acquisitions of, and investments in, department stores and other complementary assets and companies. Acquisition transactions, if any, are expected to be financed from one or more of the following sources: cash on hand, cash from operations, borrowings under existing or new credit facilities and the issuance of long term debt or other securities, including common stock. Critical Accounting Policies Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the last in, first out (LIFO) retail inventory method. Under the retail inventory method, inventory is segregated into departments of merchandise having similar characteristics, and is stated at its current retail selling value. Inventory retail values are converted to a cost basis by applying specific average cost factors for each merchandise department. Cost factors represent the average cost to retail ratio for each merchandise department based on beginning inventory and the fiscal year purchase activity. The retail inventory method inherently requires management judgments and contains estimates, such as the amount and timing of permanent markdowns to clear unproductive or slow moving inventory, which may impact the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margins. 24 Permanent markdowns designated for clearance activity are recorded when the utility of the inventory has diminished. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. When a decision is made to permanently mark down merchandise, the resulting gross profit reduction is recognized in the period the markdown is recorded. The Company receives certain allowances from various vendors in support of the merchandise it purchases for resale. The Company receives certain allowances as reimbursement for markdowns taken and or to support the gross margins earned in connection with the sales of merchandise. These allowances are generally credited to cost of sales at the time the merchandise is sold in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 02 16, Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor. The Company also receives advertising allowances from more than 1,000 of its merchandise vendors pursuant to cooperative advertising programs, with some vendors participating in multiple programs. These allowances represent reimbursements by vendors of costs incurred by the Company to promote the vendors merchandise and are netted against advertising and promotional costs when the related costs are incurred in accordance with EITF Issue No. 02 16. Advertising allowances in excess of costs incurred are recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs. The arrangements pursuant to which the Companys vendors provide allowances, while binding, are generally informal in nature and one year or less in duration. The terms and conditions of these arrangements vary significantly from vendor to vendor and are influenced by, among other things, the type of merchandise to be supported. Although it is highly unlikely that there will be any significant reduction in historical levels of vendor support, if such a reduction were to occur, the Company could experience higher costs of sales and higher advertising expense, or reduce the amount of advertising that it uses, depending on the specific vendors involved and market conditions existing at the time. Physical inventories are generally taken within each merchandise department annually, and inventory records are adjusted accordingly, resulting in the recording of actual shrinkage. While it is not possible to quantify the impact from each cause of shrinkage, the Company has loss prevention programs and policies that are intended to minimize shrinkage. Physical inventories are taken at all store locations for substantially all merchandise categories approximately two weeks before the end of the fiscal year. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of sales at interim periods and for this approximate two week period, based on historical shrinkage rates. Long Lived Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges The carrying values of long lived assets are periodically reviewed by the Company whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment has occurred. For long lived assets held for use, a potential impairment has occurred if projected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets. The estimate of cash flows includes managements assumptions of cash inflows and outflows directly resulting from the use of those assets in operations. When a potential impairment has occurred, an impairment write down is recorded if the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds its fair value. The Company believes its estimated cash flows are sufficient to support the carrying value of its long lived assets. If estimated cash flows significantly differ in the future, the Company may be required to record asset impairment write downs. For long lived assets held for disposal by sale, an impairment charge is recorded if the carrying amount of the assets exceeds its fair value less costs to sell. Such valuations include estimations of fair values and incremental direct costs to transact a sale. If the Company commits to a plan to dispose of a long lived asset before the end of its previously estimated useful life, estimated cash flows are revised accordingly and the Company may be required to record an asset impairment write down. Additionally, related liabilities arise such as severance, contractual obligations and other accruals associated with store closings from decisions to dispose of assets. The Company estimates these liabilities based on the facts and circumstances in existence for each restructuring decision. The amounts the Company will ultimately realize or disburse could differ from the amounts assumed in arriving at the asset impairment and restructuring charge recorded. 25 Goodwill and Intangible Assets The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are reviewed at least annually for possible impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 142. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives have been assigned to reporting units for purposes of impairment testing. The reporting units are the Companys retail operating divisions. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually at the end of the fiscal month of May. The Company estimates fair value based on discounted cash flows. The goodwill impairment test involves a two step process. The first step is a comparison of each reporting units fair value to its carrying value. The reporting units discounted cash flows require significant management judgment with respect to sales, gross margin and SG&A rates, capital expenditures and the selection and use of an appropriate discount rate. The projected sales, gross margin and SG&A expense rate assumptions and capital expenditures are based on the Companys annual business plan or other forecasted results. Discount rates reflect market based estimates of the risks associated with the projected cash flows directly resulting from the use of those assets in operations. The estimates of fair value of reporting units are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment. The use of different assumptions would increase or decrease estimated discounted future operating cash flows and could increase or decrease any impairment charge. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value in the first step, a second step is performed, in which the reporting units goodwill is written down to its implied fair value. The second step requires the Company to allocate the fair value of the reporting unit derived in the first step to the fair value of the reporting units net assets, with any fair value in excess of amounts allocated to such net assets representing the implied fair value of goodwill for that reporting unit. If the carrying value of an individual indefinite lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, such individual indefinite lived intangible asset is written down by an amount equal to such excess. The Company uses judgment in assessing whether assets may have become impaired between annual impairment tests. The occurrence of a change in circumstances, such as continued adverse business conditions or other economic factors, would determine the need for impairment testing between annual impairment tests. Due to deterioration in the general economic environment in recent periods (and the impact thereof on the Companys most recently completed annual business plan) and the resultant decline in the Companys market capitalization, the Company believed that an additional goodwill impairment test was required as of January 31, 2009. The Company initially calculated the value of its reporting units by discounting their projected future cash flows to present value using the Companys estimated weighted average cost of capital as the discount rate, which produced a value of each of the Companys Macys reporting units that exceeded its carrying value. However, the reconciliation of these values of the Companys reporting units to the Companys market capitalization resulted in an implied fair value substantially in excess of its market capitalization. In order to reconcile the discounted cash flows of the Companys reporting units to the trading value of the Companys common stock, the Company applied discount rates higher than the Companys estimated weighted average cost of capital, representing a market participant approach, to the projected cash flows of its reporting units and determined that the carrying value of each of the Companys reporting units exceeded its fair value at January 31, 2009, which resulted in all of the Companys reporting units failing the first step of the goodwill impairment test. The second step of the impairment testing process requires, among other things, obtaining third party appraisals of substantially all of the Companys tangible and intangible assets. The allocation of the fair value of the reporting unit derived in the first step of the impairment test to the fair value of the reporting units net assets requires significant management estimates and judgments. The allocation of the fair value of the reporting units is based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment. The goodwill impairment testing process is subject to inherent uncertainties and subjectivity. The use of different assumptions, estimates or judgments in either step of the process, including with respect to the projected future cash flows of the Companys reporting units, the discount rate used to reduce such projected future cash flows to their net present value, the resultant implied control premium relative to the Companys market capitalization, and the appraised fair value of the reporting units tangible and intangible assets and liabilities, 26 could materially increase or decrease the fair value of the reporting units net assets and, accordingly, could materially increase or decrease any related impairment charge. The first step of the impairment testing process considers company specific projections, the discount rate and the Companys market capitalization around the testing period. The second step of the impairment testing process considers third party estimates of the fair value of certain assets and liabilities. The Company recorded an estimated goodwill impairment charge of $5,382 million during 2008. Increasing or decreasing the fair values of the net assets of each reporting unit by 5% as compared to the values used in the preparation of these financial statements would increase or decrease the impairment charge related to goodwill by approximately $153 million. Self Insurance Reserves The Company, through its insurance subsidiaries, is self insured for workers compensation and public liability claims up to certain maximum liability amounts. Although the amounts accrued are actuarially determined by third parties based on analysis of historical trends of losses, settlements, litigation costs and other factors, the amounts the Company will ultimately disburse could differ from such accrued amounts. Pension and Supplementary Retirement Plans The Company has a funded defined benefit pension plan (the Pension Plan) and an unfunded defined benefit supplementary retirement plan (the SERP). The Company accounts for these plans using SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS 87), as amended by SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) (SFAS 158). Under SFAS 158, an employer recognizes the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability on the balance sheet and recognizes changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income. Under SFAS 87, pension expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods. Pension expense calculated under SFAS 87 is generally independent of funding decisions or requirements. Effective February 4, 2007, the Company adopted the measurement date provision of SFAS 158, which requires the measurement of defined benefit plan assets and obligations to be the date of the Companys fiscal year end balance sheet. This required a change in the Companys measurement date, which was previously December 31. During 2006, Congress passed the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act) with the stated purpose of improving the funding of Americas private pension plans. The Act introduced new funding requirements for defined benefit pension plans, introduces benefit limitations for certain under funded plans and raises tax deduction limits for contributions. The Act applies to pension plan years beginning after December 31, 2007. Funding requirements for the Pension Plan are determined by government regulations, not SFAS 87 or SFAS 158. No funding contributions were required, and the Company made no funding contributions to the Pension Plan in 2008 or 2007. As of the date of this report, the Company is anticipating making required funding contributions to the Pension Plan totaling approximately $295 million to $370 million prior to January 30, 2010. This includes the initiation of quarterly payments of approximately $30 million and a 2008 Plan year contribution in September 2009 of approximately $175 million to $250 million. Management believes that, with respect to the Companys current operations, cash on hand and funds from operations, together with its credit facility and other capital resources, will be sufficient to cover the Companys Pension cash requirements in both the near term and over the longer term. At January 31, 2009, the Company had an unrecognized actuarial loss of $875 million for the Pension Plan and an unrecognized actuarial gain of $19 million for the SERP. The unrecognized loss for the Pension Plan and the unrecognized gain for the SERP will be recognized as a component of pension expense in future years in accordance with SFAS No. 87, but are not expected to impact 2009 Pension and SERP expense. 27 The calculation of pension expense and pension liabilities requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and future actual experience may differ significantly from current expectations. The Company believes that the most critical assumptions relate to the long term rate of return on plan assets (in the case of the Pension Plan), the discount rate used to determine the present value of projected benefit obligations and the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels. The Company has assumed that the Pension Plans assets will generate an annual long term rate of return of 8.75%. The Company develops its long term rate of return assumption by evaluating input from several professional advisors taking into account the asset allocation of the portfolio and long term asset class return expectations, as well as long term inflation assumptions. Pension expense increases or decreases as the expected rate of return on the assets of the Pension Plan decreases or increases, respectively. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Pension Plans assets by 0.25% (from 8.75% to 8.50%) would increase the estimated 2009 pension expense by approximately $5 million and raising the expected long term rate of return on the Pension Plans assets by 0.25% (from 8.75% to 9.00%) would decrease the estimated 2009 pension expense by approximately $5 million. The Company discounted its future pension obligations using a rate of 7.45% at January 31, 2009, compared to 6.25% at February 2, 2008. The discount rate used to determine the present value of the Companys Pension Plan and SERP obligations is based on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high quality corporate debt securities with various maturities. Each years expected future benefit payments are discounted to their present value at the appropriate yield curve rate, thereby generating the overall discount rate for Pension Plan and SERP obligations. Pension liability and future pension expense both increase or decrease as the discount rate is reduced or increased, respectively. Lowering the discount rate by 0.25% (from 7.45% to 7.20%) would increase the projected benefit obligation at January 31, 2009 by approximately $72 million and would increase estimated 2009 pension expense by approximately $5 million. Increasing the discount rate by 0.25% (from 7.45% to 7.70%) would decrease the projected benefit obligation at January 31, 2009 by approximately $70 million and would decrease estimated 2009 pension expense by less than $1 million. The assumed weighted average rate of increase in future compensation levels was 5.4% at January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008 for the Pension Plan, and 7.2% at January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008 for the SERP. The Company develops its increase of future compensation level assumption based on recent experience. Pension liabilities and future pension expense both increase or decrease as the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels is increased or decreased, respectively. Increasing or decreasing the assumed weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels by 0.25% would increase or decrease the projected benefit obligation at January 31, 2009 by approximately $10 million and change estimated 2009 pension expense by approximately $1 million. New Pronouncements Effective February 3, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, (SFAS 157), as it applies to financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis. SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The SFAS 157 fair value hierarchy consists of three levels: Level 1 fair values are valuations based on quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access; Level 2 fair values are those valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities; and Level 3 fair values are valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. The adoption of SFAS 157 as it applies to financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis did not have and is not expected to have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 28 In accordance with the fair value hierarchy described above, the following table shows the fair value of the Companys financial assets and liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis at January 31, 2009: Total Fair Value Measurements Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (millions) Marketable equity and debt securities $ 88 $ 25 $ 63 $ In February 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Staff Position No. 157 2 (FSP 157 2) that permits a one year deferral for the implementation of SFAS 157 with regard to nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis (at least annually). This deferral will impact the Companys accounting for certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities accounted for under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations and SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. The Company had elected this deferral and the full adoption of SFAS 157, effective February 1, 2009, is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. SFAS No. 159 The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, (SFAS 159), which provides companies with the option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value, became effective for the Company beginning February 3, 2008. The adoption of this statement did not and is not expected to have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 51, (SFAS 160). SFAS 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company does not anticipate the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Also in December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations, (SFAS 141R). SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer of a business recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. The statement also provides guidance for recognizing and measuring the goodwill acquired in the business combination and determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS 141R is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The adoption of this statement will affect any future acquisitions entered into by the Company, and beginning with fiscal 2009 the Company will no longer account for adjustments to acquired tax liabilities and unrecognized tax benefits as increases or decreases to goodwill. Effective February 1, 2009, such adjustments will be accounted for in income tax expense. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures About Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133, (SFAS 161). SFAS 161 expands disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities. SFAS 161 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company does not anticipate the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, (SFAS 162). SFAS 162 identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles used in the preparation of financial statements of nongovernmental entities that are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. SFAS 162 became 29 effective for the Company on November 15, 2008, and the adoption of this statement did not and is not expected to have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the Company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. The Company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The majority of the Companys borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. However, the Company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. At January 31, 2009, the Company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the Companys lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at January 31, 2009, the Company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date. 
 
