Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company is a retail organization operating retail stores and Internet websites under two brands (Macys and Bloomingdales) that sell a wide range of merchandise, including mens, womens and childrens apparel and accessories, cosmetics, home furnishings and other consumer goods in 45 states, the District of Columbia, Guam and Puerto Rico. As of January 30, 2010, the Companys operations were conducted through four retail operating divisions Macys, macys.com, Bloomingdales, and bloomingdales.com which are aggregated into one reporting segment in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 280, Segment Reporting. The Company continues to be focused on four key priorities for improving the business over the longer term: (i) differentiating merchandise assortments and tailoring them to local tastes; (ii) delivering obvious value; (iii) improving the overall shopping environment; and (iv) enhancing customer engagement, loyalty and traffic through more brand focused and effective marketing. On August 30, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of The May Department Stores Company (May) by means of a merger of May with and into a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the Merger). The Company added about 400 Macys locations nationwide in 2006 as it converted the regional department store nameplates acquired through the Merger. In connection with the conversion process, the Company identified certain store locations and distribution center facilities to be divested, and also announced its intention to dispose of the acquired Lord & Taylor division and the acquired bridal group business, which included the operations of Davids Bridal, After Hours Formalwear and Priscilla of Boston. The sale of the Lord & Taylor division was completed in October 2006, the sale of Davids Bridal and Priscilla of Boston was completed in January 2007 and the sale of After Hours Formalwear was completed in April 2007. As a result of the Companys disposition of the Lord & Taylor division and bridal group businesses, these businesses were reported as discontinued operations. Unless otherwise indicated, the following discussion relates to the Companys continuing operations. In February 2008, the Company announced a new initiative to strengthen local market focus and enhance selling service in an effort to both accelerate same store sales growth and reduce expense. The localization initiative, called My Macys, was developed with the goal to accelerate sales growth in existing locations by ensuring that core customers surrounding each Macys store find merchandise assortments, size ranges, marketing programs and shopping experiences that are custom tailored to their needs. To maximize the results from My Macys, the Company has taken action in certain markets that: concentrate more management talent in local markets, effectively reducing the span of control over local stores; create new positions in the field to work with division planning and buying executives in helping to understand and act on the merchandise needs of local customers; and empower locally based executives to make more and better decisions. In combination with the localization initiative, the Company consolidated the Minneapolis based Macys North organization into New York based Macys East, the St. Louis based Macys Midwest organization into Atlanta based Macys South and the Seattle based Macys Northwest organization into San Francisco based Macys West. The Atlanta based division was renamed Macys Central. Sales performance in 2009 was strongest in the initial My Macys markets. In February 2009, the Company announced the expansion of the My Macys localization initiative across the country. As My Macys was rolled out nationally to new local markets, the Companys Macys branded stores have been reorganized into a unified operating structure to support the Macys business. Division central office organizations have been eliminated in New York based Macys East, San Francisco based Macys West, Atlanta based Macys Central and Miami based Macys Florida. This has reduced central office and administrative expense, eliminated duplication, sharpened execution, and helped the Company to partner more effectively with its suppliers and business partners. The savings from the division consolidation process, net of the amount to be invested in the My Macys localization initiatives, have reduced, and are expected to continue to reduce, selling, general and administrative 16 (SG&A) expenses, as compared to expected levels absent the consolidations. The savings from the division consolidation process announced in February 2008, net of the amount to be invested in the My Macys localization initiative, are expected to reduce SG&A expenses, as compared to expected levels absent the consolidation, by approximately $100 million per year. The partial year benefit in SG&A expenses for 2008 was more than $60 million. The savings from the division consolidation process announced in February 2009, net of the amount to be invested in the My Macys localization expansion, are expected to reduce SG&A expenses, as compared to expected levels absent the consolidation, by approximately $400 million per year, beginning in 2010. The total benefit to SG&A expenses for 2009 from the division consolidation processes announced in 2008 and 2009 was more than $350 million. During 2008, the Company incurred approximately $146 million of costs and expenses associated with the division consolidations announced in February 2008 and approximately $30 million of costs and expenses associated with the division consolidations announced in February 2009, consisting primarily of severance and other human resource related costs. During 2009, the Company incurred approximately $270 million of costs and expenses associated with the division consolidations announced in February 2009, consisting primarily of severance and other human resource related costs. During January 2010, the Company announced plans to launch a new Bloomingdales Outlet store concept in 2010, consisting of four Bloomingdales Outlet stores, each with approximately 25,000 square feet, to open prior to the Christmas season of 2010. Additional Bloomingdales Outlet stores are expected to roll out to selected locations across the country in 2011 and beyond. Bloomingdales Outlet stores will offer a range of apparel and accessories, including womens ready to wear, mens childrens, womens shoes, fashion accessories, jewelry, handbags and intimate apparel. Additionally, in February 2010, Bloomingdales opened in Dubai, United Arab Emirates under a license agreement with Al Tayer Insignia, a company of Al Tayer Group, LLC. The Companys operations are impacted by competitive pressures from department stores, specialty stores, mass merchandisers and all other retail channels. The Companys operations are also impacted by general consumer spending levels, including the impact of general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods and the effects of weather or natural disasters and other factors over which the Company has little or no control. In recent periods, consumer spending levels have been adversely affected by a number of factors, including substantial declines in the level of general economic activity and real estate and investment values, substantial increases in consumer pessimism, unemployment and the costs of basic necessities, and a significant tightening of consumer credit. These conditions adversely affected, and to varying degrees continue to adversely affect, the amount of funds that consumers are willing and able to spend for discretionary purchases, including purchases of some of the merchandise offered by the Company. These conditions also adversely affected the projected future cash flows attributable to the Companys operations, including the projected future cash flows assumed in connection with the acquisition of May, resulting in the Company recording in the fourth quarter of 2008 a reduction in the carrying value of its goodwill, and a related non cash impairment charge, in the amount of $5,382 million. The effects of the factors and conditions described above have been, and may continue to be experienced differently, or at different times, in the various geographic regions in which the Company operates, in relation to the different types of merchandise that the Company offers for sale, or in relation to the Companys Macys branded and Bloomingdales branded operations. All of these effects, however, ultimately affect the Companys overall operations. 17 The Company cannot predict whether, when or the manner in which the economic conditions described above will change. Based on its assessment of current and anticipated market conditions and its most recent fourth quarter performance, the Company is assuming that its comparable store sales in 2010 will increase in the range of 1% to 2% from 2009 levels. The discussion in this Item 7 should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. The discussion in this Item 7 contains forward looking statements that reflect the Companys plans, estimates and beliefs. The Companys actual results could materially differ from those discussed in these forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in Risk Factors and Forward Looking Statements. Results of Operations Comparison of the 52 Weeks Ended January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009. Net income for 2009 was $350 million, compared to the net loss of $4,803 million for 2008. The net income for 2009 includes the impact of $276 million of division consolidation costs and store closing related costs and $115 million of asset impairment charges. The net loss for 2008 included the impact of $5,382 million of goodwill impairment charges, $187 million of division consolidation costs and store closing related costs and $211 million of asset impairment charges. Net sales for 2009 totaled $23,489 million, compared to net sales of $24,892 million for 2008, a decrease of $1,403 million or 5.6%. On a comparable store basis, net sales for 2009 were down 5.3% compared to 2008. Sales from the Companys Internet businesses in 2009 increased 19.6% compared to 2008 and positively affected the Companys 2009 comparable store sales by 0.6%. The Company has realized continued success in the My Macys localization strategy. Geographically, sales in 2009 were strong in the Midwest and weaker in Florida and California. By family of business, sales in 2009 were strongest in moderate apparel, updated better womens sportswear, womens shoes, outerwear, jewelry and watches, housewares, home textiles and mattresses. Sales of the Companys private label brands continued to be strong and represented approximately 19% of net sales in the Macys branded stores in 2009. The weaker businesses during 2009 included traditional better womens sportswear, mens suits, handbags, fragrances, fine china and crystal and furniture. The Company calculates comparable store sales as net sales from stores in operation throughout 2008 and 2009 and all net Internet sales. Stores undergoing remodeling, expansion or relocation remain in the comparable store sales calculation unless the store is closed for a significant period of time. Definitions and calculations of comparable store sales differ among companies in the retail industry. Cost of sales was $13,973 million or 59.5% of net sales for 2009, compared to $15,009 million or 60.3% of net sales for 2008, a decrease of $1,036 million. The improved cost of sales rate reflects the benefit of good inventory management throughout 2009. The valuation of department store merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either period. SG&A expenses were $8,062 million or 34.3% of net sales for 2009, compared to $8,481 million or 34.1% of net sales for 2008, a decrease of $419 million. The SG&A rate as a percent of net sales was higher in 2009, as compared to 2008, primarily because of weaker sales. SG&A expenses in 2009 benefited from consolidation related expense savings, lower depreciation and amortization expenses, lower workers compensation and general liability insurance costs and lower advertising expenses, partially offset by higher stock based compensation expenses, higher performance based incentive compensation expense, lower income from credit operations and higher costs in support of the Companys multi channel operations. Depreciation and amortization expense was $1,210 million for 2009, compared to $1,278 million for 2008. Workers compensation and general liability insurance costs were $124 million for 2009, compared to $164 million for 2008. Stock based compensation expense was $76 million for 2009, compared to $43 million for 2008. Pension and supplementary retirement plan expense amounted to $110 million for 2009, compared to $114 million for 2008. Income from 18 credit operations was $323 million in 2009 as compared to $372 million in 2008. Advertising expense, net of cooperative advertising allowances, was $1,087 million for 2009 compared to $1,239 million for 2008. Division consolidation costs and store closing related costs for 2009 amounted to $276 million and included $270 million of costs and expenses associated with the division consolidation and localization initiatives announced in February 2009, primarily severance and other human resource related costs, and $6 million of costs and expenses related to the store closings announced in January 2010. Division consolidation costs and store closing related costs for 2008 amounted to $187 million and included $146 million of costs and expenses associated with the division consolidation and localization initiatives announced in February 2008, primarily severance and other human resource related costs, $30 million of severance costs in connection with the division consolidation and localization initiatives announced in February 2009, and $11 million of costs and expenses related to the store closings announced in January 2009. Asset impairment charges for 2009 amounted to $115 million and related to properties held and used, of which $10 million related to the store closings announced in January 2010. Asset impairment charges for 2008 amounted to $211 million and included $136 million of asset impairment charges related to properties held and used, of which $40 million related to the store closings announced in January 2009, $63 million of asset impairment charges associated with acquired indefinite lived private brand tradenames and $12 million of asset impairment charges associated with marketable securities. Goodwill impairment charges for 2008 amounted to $5,382 million, which represented a write down of goodwill in the amount of the excess of the previous carrying value of goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill, as calculated under the two step goodwill impairment process in accordance with ASC Subtopic 350 20, Goodwill. Net interest expense was $556 million for 2009, compared to $560 million for 2008, a decrease of $4 million. The decrease in net interest expense for 2009, as compared to 2008, resulted primarily from a lower level of borrowings due to retirement of debt at maturity and the debt tender offer completed during 2009, and was partially offset by a decrease in interest income due to lower rates on invested cash. The Companys effective income tax rate of 30.9% for 2009 differs from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes and the settlement of various tax issues and tax examinations. Federal, state and local income tax expense for 2009 included a benefit of approximately $21 million related to the settlement of federal income tax examinations, primarily attributable to the disposition of former subsidiaries. The Companys effective income tax rate for 2008 differed from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0%, principally because of the impact of non deductible goodwill impairment charges, the effect of state and local income taxes and the settlement of various tax issues and tax examinations. Comparison of the 52 Weeks Ended January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008. The net loss for 2008 was $4,803 million compared to net income of $893 million for 2007. The net loss for 2008 reflected the lower sales trend and includes the impact of $5,382 million of goodwill impairment charges, $187 million of division consolidation costs and store closing related costs and $211 million of asset impairment charges. The net income for 2007 included income from continuing operations of $909 million and a loss from discontinued operations of $16 million. The income from continuing operations in 2007 included the impact of $219 million of May integration costs. The loss from discontinued operations in 2007 included the loss on disposal of the After Hours Formalwear business. Net sales for 2008 totaled $24,892 million, compared to net sales of $26,313 million for 2007, a decrease of $1,421 million or 5.4%. On a comparable store basis, net sales for 2008 were down 4.6% compared to 2007. Sales in 2008 were strongest at macys.com and bloomingdales.com and were weakest at Bloomingdales, Macys West and Macys Florida. 2008 sales at Bloomingdales were weakest during the third and fourth quarters. Sales 19 from the Companys Internet businesses in 2008 increased 29.0% compared to 2007 and positively affected the Companys 2008 comparable store sales by 0.8%. Sales of the Companys private label brands represented approximately 19% of net sales in the Macys branded stores in both 2008 and 2007. By family of business, sales in 2008 were strongest in young mens apparel, shoes and housewares. The weaker businesses during 2008 were womens apparel and furniture. The Company calculates comparable store sales as net sales from stores in operation throughout 2007 and 2008 and all net Internet sales. Stores undergoing remodeling, expansion or relocation remain in the comparable store sales calculation unless the store is closed for a significant period of time. Definitions and calculations of comparable store sales differ among companies in the retail industry. Cost of sales was $15,009 million or 60.3% of net sales for 2008, compared to $15,677 million or 59.6% of net sales for 2007, a decrease of $668 million. The cost of sales rate for 2008 as a percent of net sales reflected the weak sales trend and resulted in increased net markdowns taken to maintain inventories at appropriate levels. The valuation of department store merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either period. SG&A expenses were $8,481 million or 34.1% of net sales for 2008, compared to $8,554 million or 32.5% of net sales for 2007, a decrease of $73 million. The SG&A rate as a percent of net sales was higher in 2008, as compared to 2007, primarily because of weaker sales. SG&A expenses in 2008 benefited from consolidation related expense savings, lower selling related costs, lower depreciation and amortization expenses, lower stock based compensation expenses and lower pension and supplementary retirement plan expenses, partially offset by lower income from credit operations, higher logistics related costs in support of the Companys multi channel operations and higher advertising expenses. Depreciation and amortization expense was $1,278 million for 2008, compared to $1,304 million for 2007. Stock based compensation expense was $43 million for 2008, compared to $60 million for 2007. Pension and supplementary retirement plan expense amounted to $114 million for 2008, compared to $132 million for 2007. Income from credit operations was $372 million in 2008 as compared to $450 million in 2007. Advertising expense, net of cooperative advertising allowances, was $1,239 million for 2008 compared to $1,194 million for 2007. Division consolidation costs and store closing related costs for 2008 amounted to $187 million and included $146 million of costs and expenses associated with the division consolidation and localization initiatives announced in February 2008, primarily severance and other human resource related costs, $30 million of severance costs in connection with the division consolidation and localization initiatives announced in February 2009, and $11 million of costs and expenses related to the store closings announced in January 2009. Asset impairment charges for 2008 amounted to $211 million and included $136 million of asset impairment charges related to properties held and used, of which $40 million related to the store closings announced in January 2009, $63 million of asset impairment charges associated with acquired indefinite lived private brand tradenames and $12 million of asset impairment charges associated with marketable securities. Goodwill impairment charges for 2008 amounted to $5,382 million, which represented a write down of goodwill in the amount of the excess of the previous carrying value of goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill, as calculated under the two step goodwill impairment process in accordance with ASC Subtopic 350 20, Goodwill. May integration costs for 2007 amounted to $219 million. Approximately $121 million of these costs related to impairment charges in connection with store locations and distribution facilities planned to be closed and disposed of, including $74 million related to nine underperforming stores identified in the fourth quarter of 2007 for closure. The remaining $98 million of May integration costs for 2007 included additional costs related to closed locations, severance, system conversion costs, impairment charges associated with acquired indefinite lived private brand tradenames and costs related to other operational consolidations, partially offset by approximately $41 million of gains from the sale of previously closed distribution center facilities. 20 Net interest expense was $560 million for 2008, compared to $543 million for 2007, an increase of $17 million. The increase in net interest expense for 2008, as compared to 2007, resulted primarily from higher debt associated with pre funding the refinancing of maturing debt and lower interest income on invested cash due to lower investment rates. The Companys effective income tax rate for 2008 differed from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0%, principally because of the impact of non deductible goodwill impairment charges, the effect of state and local income taxes and the settlement of various tax issues and tax examinations. The Companys effective income tax rate of 31.1% for 2007 differed from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes and the settlement of various tax issues and tax examinations. Federal, state and local income tax expense for 2007 included a benefit of approximately $78 million related to the settlement of a federal income tax examination, primarily attributable to losses related to the disposition of a former subsidiary. For 2007, the loss from the discontinued operations of the acquired After Hours Formalwear business, net of income taxes, was $16 million on sales of approximately $27 million. The loss from discontinued operations included the loss on disposal of the After Hours Formalwear business of $7 million on a pre tax and post tax basis. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal sources of liquidity are cash from operations, cash on hand and the credit facility described below. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2009 was $1,750 million, compared to $1,866 million provided in 2008. The change in net cash provided by operating activities reflects $370 million of pension contributions in 2009 versus none in 2008, partially offset by higher income before and after adjusting for non cash items. Net cash used by investing activities was $377 million for 2009, compared to net cash used by investing activities of $792 million for 2008. Investing activities for 2009 include purchases of property and equipment totaling $355 million and capitalized software of $105 million, compared to purchases of property and equipment totaling $761 million and capitalized software of $136 million for 2008. Cash flows from investing activities included $60 million and $38 million from the disposition of property and equipment for 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2009, the Company opened five new Macys department stores, re opened two Macys department stores that had been damaged in 2008 by Hurricane Ike, opened one replacement Macys department store, and also expanded into an additional Macys location in an existing mall. During 2008, the Company opened seven Macys department stores and two Macys furniture galleries. In 2010, the Company intends to open one new Bloomingdales store and four Bloomingdales outlet stores. The Companys budgeted capital expenditures are approximately $550 million for 2010, primarily related to technology and distribution network improvements, store remodels, maintenance and expansions. Management presently anticipates funding such expenditures with cash on hand and cash from operations. Net cash used by the Company for all financing activities was $1,072 million for 2009, including the repayment of $966 million of debt, a decrease in outstanding checks of $29 million, and the payment of $84 million of cash dividends. On February 10, 2009, the Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Macys Retail Holdings, Inc., completed a cash tender offer pursuant to which it purchased approximately $199 million of its outstanding 6.30% senior notes due April 1, 2009 (resulting in approximately $151 million of such notes remaining outstanding until they were paid at maturity on April 1, 2009) and approximately $481 million of its outstanding 4.80% senior notes due July 15, 2009 (resulting in approximately $119 million of such notes remaining outstanding until they were paid at maturity on July 15, 2009) for aggregate consideration, including 21 accrued and unpaid interest, of approximately $686 million. By using cash on hand to repurchase and retire this debt early, the Company reduced its interest expense in 2009 by approximately $7 million, net of expenses associated with the debt tender offer. Between January 30, 2010 and the date of this report, consistent with its strategy to reduce its indebtedness, the Company has used approximately $526 million of cash to repurchase approximately $500 million of indebtedness prior to its maturity. In connection with these repurchases, the Company has recognized additional interest expense of approximately $27 million due to the expenses associated with the early retirement of this debt, which the Company expects will be offset during 2010 by reduced interest expense resulting from the early retirement of this debt. Net cash used by the Company for all financing activities was $365 million for 2008, including the issuance of $650 million of long term debt, the repayment of $666 million of debt, a decrease in outstanding checks of $116 million, and the payment of $221 million of cash dividends. The debt issued during 2008 was $650 million of 7.875% senior notes due 2015. The debt repaid during 2008 included $500 million of 6.625% senior notes due September 1, 2008 and $150 million of 5.95% notes due November 1, 2008. The Company is a party to a credit agreement with certain financial institutions providing for revolving credit borrowings and letters of credit in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000 million (which amount may be increased to $2,500 million at the option of the Company, subject to the willingness of existing or new lenders to provide commitments for such additional financing) outstanding at any particular time. This agreement is set to expire August 30, 2012. As of January 30, 2010 and during 2009, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under this agreement. The Companys interest coverage ratio for 2009 was 4.54 and its leverage ratio at January 30, 2010 was 3.15, in each case as calculated in accordance with the credit agreement. The credit agreement requires the Company to maintain a specified interest coverage ratio for the latest four quarters of no less than 3.00 (3.25 after October 2010) and a specified leverage ratio as of and for the latest four quarters of no more than 4.75 (4.50 after October 2010). The interest coverage ratio is defined as EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) over net interest expense and the leverage ratio is defined as debt over EBITDA. For purposes of these calculations EBITDA is calculated as net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization, non cash impairment of goodwill, intangibles and real estate, non recurring cash charges not to exceed in the aggregate $500 million from the date of the amended agreement and extraordinary losses less interest income and non recurring or extraordinary gains. Debt and net interest are adjusted to exclude the premium on acquired debt and the resulting amortization, respectively. A breach of a restrictive covenant in the Companys credit agreement or the inability of the Company to maintain the financial ratios described above could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. In addition, an event of default would occur under the credit agreement if any indebtedness of the Company in excess of an aggregate principal amount of $150 million becomes due prior to its stated maturity or the holders of such indebtedness become able to cause it to become due prior to its stated maturity. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could, subject to the terms and conditions of the credit agreement, elect to declare the outstanding principal, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. Moreover, most of the Companys senior notes and debentures contain cross default provisions based on the non payment at maturity, or other default after an applicable grace period, of any other debt, the unpaid principal amount of which is not less than $100 million, that could be triggered by an event of default under the credit agreement. In such an event, the Companys senior notes and debentures that contain cross default provisions would also be subject to acceleration. At January 30, 2010, no notes or debentures contain provisions requiring acceleration of payment upon a debt rating downgrade. However, the terms of $3,700 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys 22 senior notes outstanding at that date require the Company to offer to purchase such notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest in specified circumstances involving both a change of control (as defined in the applicable indenture) of the Company and the rating of the notes by specified rating agencies at a level below investment grade. The rate of interest payable in respect of $650 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys senior notes outstanding at January 30, 2010 was increased by one percent per annum in April 2009 as a result of a downgrade of the notes by specified rating agencies. The rate of interest payable in respect of these senior notes could increase or decrease by up to one percent per annum from its current level in the event of one or more downgrades or upgrades of the notes by specified rating agencies. During 2009, the Company repurchased no shares of its common stock under its share repurchase program. The Companys share repurchase program is currently suspended. As of January 30, 2010, the Company had approximately $850 million of authorization remaining under its share repurchase program. The Company may continue or, from time to time, suspend repurchases of shares under its share repurchase program, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. On February 19, 2010, the Companys board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of 5 cents per share on its common stock, payable April 1, 2010 to Macys shareholders of record at the close of business on March 15, 2010. At January 30, 2010, the Company had contractual obligations (within the scope of Item 303(a)(5) of Regulation S K) as follows: Obligations Due, by Period Total Less than1 Year 1 3Years 3 5Years More than5 Years (millions) Short term debt $ 238 $ 238 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Long term debt 8,156 0 2,325 646 5,185 Interest on debt 5,792 566 993 783 3,450 Capital lease obligations 54 7 12 7 28 Other long term liabilities 1,341 20 361 253 707 Operating leases 2,530 228 407 328 1,567 Letters of credit 52 52 0 0 0 Other obligations 2,297 1,949 258 90 0 $ 20,460 $ 3,060 $ 4,356 $ 2,107 $ 10,937 Other obligations in the foregoing table consist primarily of merchandise purchase obligations and obligations under outsourcing arrangements, construction contracts, employment contracts, group medical/dental/life insurance programs, energy and other supply agreements identified by the Company and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits that the Company expects to settle in cash in the next year. The Companys merchandise purchase obligations fluctuate on a seasonal basis, typically being higher in the summer and early fall and being lower in the late winter and early spring. The Company purchases a substantial portion of its merchandise inventories and other goods and services otherwise than through binding contracts. Consequently, the amounts shown as Other obligations in the foregoing table do not reflect the total amounts that the Company would need to spend on goods and services in order to operate its businesses in the ordinary course. The Company has not included in the contractual obligations table approximately $193 million for long term liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits for various tax positions taken or approximately $71 million of related accrued federal, state and local interest and penalties. These liabilities may increase or decrease over time 23 as a result of tax examinations, and given the status of examinations, the Company cannot reliably estimate the period of any cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. The Company has included in the contractual obligations table $14 million of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits that the Company expects to settle in cash in the next year. The Company has not included in the contractual obligation table the $1,014 million Pension Plan liability. The Companys funding policy is to contribute amounts necessary to satisfy minimum pension funding requirements, including requirements of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, plus such additional amounts from time to time as are determined to be appropriate to improve the Pension Plans funded status. The Pension Plans funded status is affected by many factors including discount rates and the performance of Pension Plan assets. On February 22, 2010, the Company made a funding contribution to the Pension Plan of $325 million. The Company does not anticipate making any additional funding contributions to the Pension Plan during 2010, but may consider making additional funding contributions depending on the market performance and other factors. Management believes that, with respect to the Companys current operations, cash on hand and funds from operations, together with its credit facility and other capital resources, will be sufficient to cover the Companys reasonably foreseeable working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements and other cash requirements in both the near term and over the longer term. The Companys ability to generate funds from operations may be affected by numerous factors, including general economic conditions and levels of consumer confidence and demand; however, the Company expects to be able to manage its working capital levels and capital expenditure amounts so as to maintain sufficient levels of liquidity. To the extent that the Companys cash balances from time to time exceed amounts that are needed to fund its immediate liquidity requirements, the Company will consider alternative uses of some or all of such excess cash. Depending upon its actual and anticipated sources and uses of liquidity, conditions in the capital markets and other factors, the Company will from time to time consider the issuance of debt or other securities, or other possible capital markets transactions, for the purpose of raising capital which could be used to refinance current indebtedness or for other corporate purposes, and the redemption or repurchase of debt or other securities through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Management believes the department store business and other retail businesses will continue to consolidate. The Company intends from time to time to consider additional acquisitions of, and investments in, department stores and other complementary assets and companies. Acquisition transactions, if any, are expected to be financed from one or more of the following sources: cash on hand, cash from operations, borrowings under existing or new credit facilities and the issuance of long term debt or other securities, including common stock. Critical Accounting Policies Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the last in, first out (LIFO) retail inventory method. Under the retail inventory method, inventory is segregated into departments of merchandise having similar characteristics, and is stated at its current retail selling value. Inventory retail values are converted to a cost basis by applying specific average cost factors for each merchandise department. Cost factors represent the average cost to retail ratio for each merchandise department based on beginning inventory and the fiscal year purchase activity. The retail inventory method inherently requires management judgments and contains estimates, such as the amount and timing of permanent markdowns to clear unproductive or slow moving inventory, which may impact the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margins. Permanent markdowns designated for clearance activity are recorded when the utility of the inventory has diminished. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. When a decision is made to permanently mark down merchandise, the resulting gross profit reduction is recognized in the period the markdown is recorded. 24 The Company receives certain allowances from various vendors in support of the merchandise it purchases for resale. The Company receives certain allowances as reimbursement for markdowns taken and or to support the gross margins earned in connection with the sales of merchandise. These allowances are generally credited to cost of sales at the time the merchandise is sold in accordance with ASC Subtopic 605 50, Customer Payments and Incentives. The Company also receives advertising allowances from more than 1,000 of its merchandise vendors pursuant to cooperative advertising programs, with some vendors participating in multiple programs. These allowances represent reimbursements by vendors of costs incurred by the Company to promote the vendors merchandise and are netted against advertising and promotional costs when the related costs are incurred in accordance with ASC Subtopic 605 50. Advertising allowances in excess of costs incurred are recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs. The arrangements pursuant to which the Companys vendors provide allowances, while binding, are generally informal in nature and one year or less in duration. The terms and conditions of these arrangements vary significantly from vendor to vendor and are influenced by, among other things, the type of merchandise to be supported. Although it is highly unlikely that there will be any significant reduction in historical levels of vendor support, if such a reduction were to occur, the Company could experience higher costs of sales and higher advertising expense, or reduce the amount of advertising that it uses, depending on the specific vendors involved and market conditions existing at the time. Physical inventories are generally taken within each merchandise department annually, and inventory records are adjusted accordingly, resulting in the recording of actual shrinkage. While it is not possible to quantify the impact from each cause of shrinkage, the Company has loss prevention programs and policies that are intended to minimize shrinkage. Physical inventories are taken at all store locations for substantially all merchandise categories approximately three weeks before the end of the fiscal year. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of sales at interim periods and for this approximate three week period, based on historical shrinkage rates. Long Lived Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges The carrying values of long lived assets are periodically reviewed by the Company whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment has occurred. For long lived assets held for use, a potential impairment has occurred if projected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets. The estimate of cash flows includes managements assumptions of cash inflows and outflows directly resulting from the use of those assets in operations. When a potential impairment has occurred, an impairment write down is recorded if the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds its fair value. The Company believes its estimated cash flows are sufficient to support the carrying value of its long lived assets. If estimated cash flows significantly differ in the future, the Company may be required to record asset impairment write downs. If the Company commits to a plan to dispose of a long lived asset before the end of its previously estimated useful life, estimated cash flows are revised accordingly, and the Company may be required to record an asset impairment write down. Additionally, related liabilities arise such as severance, contractual obligations and other accruals associated with store closings from decisions to dispose of assets. The Company estimates these liabilities based on the facts and circumstances in existence for each restructuring decision. The amounts the Company will ultimately realize or disburse could differ from the amounts assumed in arriving at the asset impairment and restructuring charge recorded. The Company classifies certain long lived assets as held for disposal by sale and ceases depreciation when the particular criteria for such classification are met, including the probable sale within one year. For long lived assets to be disposed of by sale, an impairment charge is recorded if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value less costs to sell. Such valuations include estimations of fair values and incremental direct costs to transact a sale. 25 Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Company reviews the carrying value of its goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives at least annually for possible impairment in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives have been assigned to reporting units for purposes of impairment testing. The reporting units are the Companys retail operating divisions. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually at the end of the fiscal month of May. The goodwill impairment test involves a two step process. The first step involves estimating the fair value of each reporting unit based on its estimated discounted cash flows and comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. If this comparison indicates that a reporting units estimated fair value is less than its carrying value, a second step is required. If applicable, the second step requires the Company to allocate the fair value of the reporting unit to the estimated fair value of the reporting units net assets, with any fair value in excess of amounts allocated to such net assets representing the implied fair value of goodwill for that reporting unit. If the carrying value of an individual indefinite lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, such individual indefinite lived intangible asset is written down by an amount equal to such excess. The Company uses judgment in assessing whether assets may have become impaired between annual impairment tests. The occurrence of a change in circumstances, such as continued adverse business conditions or other economic factors, would determine the need for impairment testing between annual impairment tests. Due to deterioration in the general economic environment in recent periods (and the impact thereof on the Companys then most recently completed annual business plan) and the resultant decline in the Companys market capitalization during 2008, the Company believed that an additional goodwill impairment test was required as of January 31, 2009. In performing the first step of this impairment test, the Company estimated the fair value of its reporting units by discounting their projected future cash flows to present value, and reconciling the aggregate estimated fair value of the Companys reporting units to the trading value of the Companys common stock (together with an implied control premium). The Company believes that this reconciliation process represents a market participant approach to valuation. Based on this analysis, the Company determined that the carrying value of each of the Companys reporting units exceeded its fair value at January 31, 2009, which resulted in all of the Companys reporting units failing the first step of the goodwill impairment test. The Company then undertook the second step of the goodwill impairment test, which involved, among other things, obtaining third party appraisals of substantially all of the Companys tangible and intangible assets. Based on the results of its goodwill impairment testing as of January 31, 2009, the Company recorded a pre tax goodwill impairment charge of $5,382 million ($5,083 million after income taxes) in the fourth quarter of 2008. As a result of the 2008 goodwill impairment charge, the Macys retail operating division is the only reporting unit with goodwill. Based on the results of the most recent annual impairment test of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets completed during the second quarter of 2009, the Company determined that goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets were not impaired as of May 30, 2009 and the estimated fair value of the Macys retail operating division substantially exceeded its carrying value. The goodwill impairment testing process involves the use of significant assumptions, estimates and judgments by management, and is subject to inherent uncertainties and subjectivity. Estimating a reporting units discounted cash flows involves the use of significant assumptions, estimates and judgments with respect to a variety of factors, including sales, gross margin and SG&A rates, capital expenditures, cash flows and the selection and use of an appropriate discount rate. Projected sales, gross margin and SG&A expense rate assumptions and capital expenditures are based on the Companys annual business plan or other forecasted results. Discount rates reflect market based estimates of the risks associated with the projected cash flows of the reporting unit directly resulting from the use of its assets in its operations. The allocation of the estimated fair value of the Companys reporting units to the estimated fair value of their net assets also involves the use of significant assumptions, estimates and judgments. Both the estimates of the fair value of the Companys reporting units and the allocation of the estimated fair value of the reporting units to their net assets are based on the best information available to the Companys management as of the date of the assessment. 26 The use of different assumptions, estimates or judgments in either step of the goodwill impairment testing process, including with respect to the estimated future cash flows of the Companys reporting units, the discount rate used to discount such estimated cash flows to their net present value, the reasonableness of the resultant implied control premium relative to the Companys market capitalization, and the appraised fair value of the reporting units tangible and intangible assets and liabilities, could materially increase or decrease the fair value of the reporting unit and or its net assets and, accordingly, could materially increase or decrease any related impairment charge. Income Taxes Income taxes are estimated based on the tax statutes, regulations and case law of the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred income tax assets are evaluated for recoverability based on all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. Deferred income tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Uncertain tax positions are recognized if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Uncertain tax positions meeting the more likely than not recognition threshold are then measured to determine the amount of benefit eligible for recognition in the financial statements. Each uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Uncertain tax positions are evaluated and adjusted as appropriate, while taking into account the progress of audits of various taxing jurisdictions. The Company does not anticipate that resolution of these matters will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Significant judgment is required in evaluating the Companys uncertain tax positions, provision for income taxes, and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. Although the Company believes that its judgments are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in the Companys historical income provisions and accruals. Self Insurance Reserves The Company, through its insurance subsidiaries, is self insured for workers compensation and public liability claims up to certain maximum liability amounts. Although the amounts accrued are actuarially determined by third parties based on analysis of historical trends of losses, settlements, litigation costs and other factors, the amounts the Company will ultimately disburse could differ from such accrued amounts. Pension and Supplementary Retirement Plans The Company has a funded defined benefit pension plan (the Pension Plan) and an unfunded defined benefit supplementary retirement plan (the SERP). The Company accounts for these plans in accordance with ASC Topic 715, Compensation Retirement Benefits. Under ASC Topic 715, an employer recognizes the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability on the balance sheet and recognizes changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income. Additionally, pension expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods. The pension expense calculation is generally independent of funding decisions or requirements. The Company anticipates that Pension and SERP expense, which was approximately $110 million in 2009, will increase by approximately $30 million in 2010. 27 The Pension Protection Act of 2006 provides the funding requirements for the Pension Plan which are different than the employers accounting for the plan as outlined in ASC Topic 715. During 2009, the Company made funding contributions to the Pension Plan totaling approximately $370 million. On February 22, 2010, the Company made a funding contribution to the Pension Plan of $325 million. The Company does not presently anticipate making any additional funding contributions to the Pension Plan during 2010, but may choose to do so in its discretion. Management believes that, with respect to the Companys current operations, cash on hand and funds from operations, together with available borrowing under its credit facility and other capital resources, will be sufficient to cover the Companys Pension Plan cash requirements in both the near term and also over the longer term. At January 30, 2010, the Company had unrecognized actuarial losses of $1,186 million for the Pension Plan and $94 million for the SERP. The unrecognized losses for the Pension Plan and the SERP will be recognized as a component of pension expense in future years in accordance with ASC Topic 715, and is expected to impact 2010 Pension and SERP expense by approximately $64 million. The calculation of pension expense and pension liabilities requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and future actual experience may differ significantly from current expectations. The Company believes that the most critical assumptions relate to the long term rate of return on plan assets (in the case of the Pension Plan), the discount rate used to determine the present value of projected benefit obligations and the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels. The Company has assumed that the Pension Plans assets will generate an annual long term rate of return of 8.75%. The Company develops its expected long term rate of return assumption by evaluating input from several professional advisors taking into account the asset allocation of the portfolio and long term asset class return expectations, as well as long term inflation assumptions. Pension expense increases or decreases as the expected rate of return on the assets of the Pension Plan decreases or increases, respectively. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Pension Plans assets by 0.25% (from 8.75% to 8.50%) would increase the estimated 2010 pension expense by approximately $6 million and raising the expected long term rate of return on the Pension Plans assets by 0.25% (from 8.75% to 9.00%) would decrease the estimated 2010 pension expense by approximately $6 million. The Company discounted its future pension obligations using a rate of 5.65% at January 30, 2010, compared to 7.45% at January 31, 2009. The discount rate used to determine the present value of the Companys Pension Plan and SERP obligations is based on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high quality corporate debt securities with various maturities. Each years expected future benefit payments are discounted to their present value at the appropriate yield curve rate, thereby generating the overall discount rate for Pension Plan and SERP obligations. Pension liability and future pension expense both increase or decrease as the discount rate is reduced or increased, respectively. Lowering the discount rate by 0.25% (from 5.65% to 5.40%) would increase the projected benefit obligation at January 30, 2010 by approximately $90 million and would increase estimated 2010 pension expense by approximately $9 million. Increasing the discount rate by 0.25% (from 5.65% to 5.90%) would decrease the projected benefit obligation at January 30, 2010 by approximately $86 million and would decrease estimated 2010 pension expense by approximately $9 million. The assumed weighted average age graded rate of increase in future compensation levels was 4.5% at January 30, 2010 and 5.4% at January 31, 2009 for the Pension Plan, and 4.9% at January 30, 2010 and 7.2% at January 31, 2009 for the SERP. The Company develops its rate of compensation increase assumption on an age graded basis based on recent experience and reflects an estimate of future compensation levels taking into account general increase levels, seniority, promotions and other factors. This assumption was revised during 2009 based on the completion of a third party assumption study reflecting more recent experience. Pension liabilities and future pension expense both increase or decrease as the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels is increased or decreased, respectively. Increasing or decreasing the assumed weighted 28 average rate of increase of future compensation levels by 0.25% would increase or decrease the projected benefit obligation at January 30, 2010 by approximately $15 million and change estimated 2010 pension expense by approximately $3 million. New Pronouncements In December 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2009 16, relating to the accounting and disclosures for transfers of financial assets. This guidance will require entities to provide more information about sales of securitized financial assets and similar transactions, particularly if the seller retains some risk with respect to the assets. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2009 17, with the intent to improve financial reporting by companies involved with variable interest entities and to provide more relevant and reliable information to users of financial statements. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2010 06, which provides amendments and requires new disclosures relating to ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, and also conforming amendments to guidance relating to ASC Topic 715, Compensation Retirement Benefits. This guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosure requirement regarding purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the rollforward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2010. The adoption of this guidance is limited to the form and content of disclosures, and the Company does not anticipate that the adoption will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the Company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. The Company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The majority of the Companys borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. However, the Company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. At January 31, 2009, the Company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the Companys lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at January 31, 2009, the Company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date. 29 
 
