Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company is a retail organization operating retail stores and Internet websites under two brands (Macys and Bloomingdales) that sell a wide range of merchandise, including mens, womens and childrens apparel and accessories, cosmetics, home furnishings and other consumer goods in 45 states, the District of Columbia, Guam and Puerto Rico. As of January 29, 2011, the Companys operations were conducted through Macys, macys.com, Bloomingdales, bloomingdales.com and Bloomingdales Outlet which are aggregated into one reporting segment in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 280, Segment Reporting. The Company is focused on four key strategies for continued growth in sales, earnings and cash flow in the years ahead: (i) maximizing the My Macys localization initiative; (ii) developing private and exclusive brands; (iii) embracing customer centricity, including engaging customers on the selling floor; and (iv) driving the omnichannel business. The My Macys localization initiative was developed with the goal of accelerating sales growth in existing locations by ensuring that core customers surrounding each Macys store find merchandise assortments, size ranges, marketing programs and shopping experiences that are custom tailored to their needs. My Macys has concentrated more management talent in local markets, effectively reducing the span of control over local stores; created new positions in the field to work with district planning and buying executives in helping to understand and act on the merchandise needs of local customers; and empowered locally based executives to make more and better decisions. Also as part of My Macys, the Companys Macys branded stores are organized in a unified operating structure and division central office organizations were eliminated. This has reduced central office and administrative expense, eliminated duplication, sharpened execution, and helped the Company to partner more effectively with its suppliers and business partners. The Companys omnichannel strategy allows customers to shop seamlessly in stores, online and via mobile devices. As part of the comprehensive focus on its omnichannel business, the Company is building an efficient and resourceful organization that thrives on unrelenting creativity and innovation. Current and future expansions to the macys.com and bloomingdales.com online businesses represent investments in merchandising, marketing and site development, all of which complement ongoing improvements in systems infrastructure, fulfillment capacity and customer service. During 2010, the Company launched a new Bloomingdales Outlet store concept, which initially consists of four Bloomingdales Outlet stores, each with approximately 25,000 square feet. Additional Bloomingdales Outlet stores are expected to roll out to selected locations across the country in 2011 and beyond. Bloomingdales Outlet stores offer a range of apparel and accessories, including womens ready to wear, mens, childrens, womens shoes, fashion accessories, jewelry, handbags and intimate apparel. Additionally, in February 2010, Bloomingdales opened in Dubai, United Arab Emirates under a license agreement with Al Tayer Insignia, a company of Al Tayer Group, LLC, under which the Company is entitled to a license fee in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreement, generally based upon the greater of the contractually earned or guaranteed minimum amounts. During 2010, the Company opened two new Macys stores, one new Bloomingdales store, and four Bloomingdales Outlet stores. During 2009, the Company opened five new Macys department stores, re opened two Macys department stores that had been damaged in 2008 by Hurricane Ike, opened one replacement Macys department store, and also expanded into an additional Macys location in an existing mall. In 2011, the Company intends to open three Bloomingdales Outlet stores and re open a Macys department store that had been closed in 2010 due to flood damage. 16 Table of Contents The Companys operations are impacted by competitive pressures from department stores, specialty stores, mass merchandisers and all other retail channels. The Companys operations are also impacted by general consumer spending levels, including the impact of general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods and the effects of weather or natural disasters and other factors over which the Company has little or no control. Throughout 2008 and into 2009, consumer spending levels were adversely affected by a number of factors, including substantial declines in the level of general economic activity and real estate and investment values, substantial increases in consumer pessimism, unemployment and the costs of basic necessities, and a significant tightening of consumer credit. These conditions adversely affected, and to varying degrees continue to adversely affect, the amount of funds that consumers are willing and able to spend for discretionary purchases, including purchases of some of the merchandise offered by the Company. These conditions also adversely affected the projected future cash flows attributable to the Companys operations, including the projected future cash flows assumed in connection with the acquisition of The May Department Stores Company (May), resulting in the Company recording in the fourth quarter of 2008 a reduction in the carrying value of its goodwill, and a related non cash impairment charge, in the amount of $5,382 million. The Company experienced significantly higher sales growth and steady gross margin and cash flow in 2010, and therefore is optimistic about the improvement in current and future economic conditions. The effects of economic conditions have been, and may continue to be, experienced differently, or at different times, in the various geographic regions in which the Company operates, in relation to the different types of merchandise that the Company offers for sale, or in relation to the Companys Macys branded and Bloomingdales branded operations. All economic conditions, however, ultimately affect the Companys overall operations. Based on its assessment of current and anticipated market conditions and its recent performance, the Company is assuming that its comparable store sales in 2011 will increase approximately 3% from 2010 levels. The discussion in this Item 7 should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. The discussion in this Item 7 contains forward looking statements that reflect the Companys plans, estimates and beliefs. The Companys actual results could materially differ from those discussed in these forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly in Risk Factors and Forward Looking Statements. Results of Operations Net sales include merchandise sales, leased department income, shipping and handling fees and sales to third party retailers. In 2010, the Company began including sales of private brand goods directly to third party retailers and sales of excess inventory to third parties in net sales. These items were previously reported, net of the related cost of sales, in selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) expenses. This change in presentation had an immaterial impact on reported net sales, does not impact comparable store sales, net income (loss) or diluted earnings (loss) per share, and was not applied retroactively to annual periods prior to fiscal 2010. The Company changed its methodology for recording deferred state income taxes from a blended rate basis to a separate entity basis, and has reflected the effects of such change to 2010 and all prior periods. Even though the Company considers the change to have had only an immaterial impact on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the prior periods as previously reported have been adjusted to reflect the change. Comparison of the 52 Weeks Ended January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010. Net income for 2010 was $847 million, compared to net income of $329 million for 2009, reflecting the benefits of the strategic initiatives at 17 Table of Contents Macys and the continued strong performance at Bloomingdales. The net income for 2010 includes the impact of $25 million of impairments and store closing costs. The net income for 2009 included the impact of $391 million of impairments, store closing costs and division consolidation costs. Net sales for 2010 totaled $25,003 million, compared to net sales of $23,489 million for 2009, an increase of $1,514 million or 6.4%. On a comparable store basis, net sales for 2010 were up 4.6% compared to 2009. Sales from the Companys Internet businesses in 2010 increased 28.7% compared to 2009 and positively affected the Companys 2010 comparable store sales by 0.9%. The Company has realized continued success in the My Macys localization strategy. Geographically, sales in 2010 were strongest in Florida and the upper Midwest. By family of business, sales in 2010 were strongest in updated womens apparel, particularly the Companys I N C brand, jewelry and watches, mens apparel and accessories, luggage, furniture and mattresses. Sales of the Companys private label brands continued to be strong and represented approximately 20% of net sales in the Macys branded stores in 2010. Sales in 2010 were less strong in traditional womens sportswear. The Company calculates comparable store sales as sales from stores in operation throughout 2009 and 2010 and all net Internet sales. Stores undergoing remodeling, expansion or relocation remain in the comparable store sales calculation unless the store is closed for a significant period of time. Definitions and calculations of comparable store sales differ among companies in the retail industry. Cost of sales was $14,824 million or 59.3% of net sales for 2010, compared to $13,973 million or 59.5% of net sales for 2009, an increase of $851 million. The improved cost of sales rate reflects the benefit of good inventory management throughout 2010. The valuation of merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either period. SG&A expenses were $8,260 million or 33.0% of net sales for 2010, compared to $8,062 million or 34.3% of net sales for 2009, an increase of $198 million. The SG&A rate as a percent of net sales was lower in 2010, as compared to 2009, reflecting an increase in net sales. SG&A expenses in 2010 increased due to higher selling costs as a result of stronger sales, higher workers compensation and general liability insurance costs, higher pension and supplementary retirement plan expense, and higher costs in support of the Companys omnichannel operations, partially offset by lower depreciation and amortization expense, lower stock based compensation expense, higher income from credit operations and lower advertising expense. Workers compensation and general liability insurance costs were $148 million for 2010, compared to $124 million for 2009. Pension and supplementary retirement plan expense amounted to $144 million for 2010, compared to $110 million for 2009. Depreciation and amortization expense was $1,150 million for 2010, compared to $1,210 million for 2009. Stock based compensation expense was $66 million for 2010, compared to $76 million for 2009. Income from credit operations was $332 million in 2010 as compared to $323 million in 2009. Advertising expense, net of cooperative advertising allowances, was $1,072 million for 2010 compared to $1,087 million for 2009. Impairments, store closing costs and division consolidation costs for 2010 amounted to $25 million and included $18 million of asset impairment charges and $7 million of other costs and expenses related to the store closings announced in January 2011. Impairments, store closing costs and division consolidation costs for 2009 amounted to $391 million and included $115 million of asset impairment charges, $6 million of other costs and expenses related to the store closings announced in January 2010, and $270 million of restructuring related costs and expenses associated with the division consolidation and localization initiatives, primarily severance and other human resource related costs. Net interest expense was $574 million for 2010, compared to $556 million for 2009, an increase of $18 million. The increase in net interest expense is primarily due to approximately $66 million of expenses associated with the early retirement of approximately $1,000 million of outstanding debt during 2010, partially offset by lower levels of borrowings due primarily to such early retirement of outstanding debt. 18 Table of Contents The Companys effective tax rate of 35.8% for 2010 and 35.2% for 2009 differ from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35%, and on a comparative basis, principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes and the settlement of various tax issues and tax examinations. Federal, state and local income tax expense for 2009 included a benefit of approximately $21 million related to the settlement of federal income tax examinations, primarily attributable to the disposition of former subsidiaries. Comparison of the 52 Weeks Ended January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009. Net income for 2009 was $329 million, compared to the net loss of $4,775 million for 2008. The net income for 2009 included the impact of $391 million of impairments, store closing costs and division consolidation costs. The net loss for 2008 included the impact of $5,382 million of goodwill impairment charges and $398 million of impairments, store closing costs and division consolidation costs. Net sales for 2009 totaled $23,489 million, compared to net sales of $24,892 million for 2008, a decrease of $1,403 million or 5.6%. On a comparable store basis, net sales for 2009 were down 5.3% compared to 2008. Sales from the Companys Internet businesses in 2009 increased 19.6% compared to 2008 and positively affected the Companys 2009 comparable store sales by 0.6%. Geographically, sales in 2009 were strong in the Midwest and weaker in Florida and California. By family of business, sales in 2009 were strongest in moderate apparel, updated better womens sportswear, womens shoes, outerwear, jewelry and watches, housewares, home textiles and mattresses. Sales of the Companys private label brands continued to be strong and represented approximately 19% of net sales in the Macys branded stores in 2009. The weaker businesses during 2009 included traditional better womens sportswear, mens suits, handbags, fragrances, fine china and crystal and furniture. The Company calculates comparable store sales as net sales from stores in operation throughout 2008 and 2009 and all net Internet sales. Stores undergoing remodeling, expansion or relocation remain in the comparable store sales calculation unless the store is closed for a significant period of time. Definitions and calculations of comparable store sales differ among companies in the retail industry. Cost of sales was $13,973 million or 59.5% of net sales for 2009, compared to $15,009 million or 60.3% of net sales for 2008, a decrease of $1,036 million. The improved cost of sales rate reflected the benefit of good inventory management throughout 2009. The valuation of merchandise inventories on the last in, first out basis did not impact cost of sales in either period. SG&A expenses were $8,062 million or 34.3% of net sales for 2009, compared to $8,481 million or 34.1% of net sales for 2008, a decrease of $419 million. The SG&A rate as a percent of net sales was higher in 2009, as compared to 2008, primarily because of weaker sales. SG&A expenses in 2009 benefited from consolidation related expense savings, lower depreciation and amortization expenses, lower workers compensation and general liability insurance costs and lower advertising expense, partially offset by higher stock based compensation expense, higher performance based incentive compensation expense, lower income from credit operations and higher costs in support of the Companys omnichannel operations. Depreciation and amortization expense was $1,210 million for 2009, compared to $1,278 million for 2008. Workers compensation and general liability insurance costs were $124 million for 2009, compared to $164 million for 2008. Advertising expense, net of cooperative advertising allowances, was $1,087 million for 2009 compared to $1,239 million for 2008. Stock based compensation expense was $76 million for 2009, compared to $43 million for 2008. Income from credit operations was $323 million in 2009 as compared to $372 million in 2008. Pension and supplementary retirement plan expense amounted to $110 million for 2009, compared to $114 million for 2008. Impairments, store closing costs and division consolidation costs for 2009 amounted to $391 million and included $115 million of asset impairment charges, $6 million of other costs and expenses related to the store closings announced in January 2010, and $270 million of restructuring related costs and expenses associated with the division consolidation and localization initiatives, primarily severance and other human resource related costs. 19 Table of Contents Impairments, store closing costs and division consolidation costs for 2008 amounted to $398 million and included $211 million of asset impairment charges, $11 million of other costs and expenses related to the store closings announced in January 2009, and $176 million of restructuring related costs and expenses associated with the division consolidation and localization initiatives, primarily severance and other human resource related costs. Goodwill impairment charges for 2008 amounted to $5,382 million, which represented a write down of goodwill in the amount of the excess of the previous carrying value of goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill, as calculated under the two step goodwill impairment process in accordance with ASC Subtopic 350 20, Goodwill. Net interest expense was $556 million for 2009, compared to $560 million for 2008, a decrease of $4 million. The decrease in net interest expense for 2009, as compared to 2008, resulted primarily from a lower level of borrowings due to retirement of debt at maturity and the debt tender offer completed during 2009, and was partially offset by a decrease in interest income due to lower rates on invested cash. The Companys effective income tax rate of 35.2% for 2009 differed from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0% principally because of the effect of state and local income taxes and the settlement of various tax issues and tax examinations. Federal, state and local income tax expense for 2009 included a benefit of approximately $21 million related to the settlement of federal income tax examinations, primarily attributable to the disposition of former subsidiaries. The Companys effective income tax rate for 2008 differed from the federal income tax statutory rate of 35.0%, principally because of the impact of non deductible goodwill impairment charges, the effect of state and local income taxes and the settlement of various tax issues and tax examinations. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal sources of liquidity are cash from operations, cash on hand and the credit facility described below. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2010 was $1,506 million, compared to $1,750 million provided in 2009. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in 2010 compared to 2009 includes a greater decrease in other liabilities not separately identified, primarily accelerated pension contributions. During 2010, the Company made pension funding contributions totaling approximately $825 million, compared to pension funding contributions made during 2009 of approximately $370 million. Net cash used by investing activities was $465 million for 2010, compared to net cash used by investing activities of $377 million for 2009. Investing activities for 2010 include purchases of property and equipment totaling $339 million and capitalized software of $166 million, compared to purchases of property and equipment totaling $355 million and capitalized software of $105 million for 2009. Cash flows from investing activities included $74 million and $60 million from the disposition of property and equipment for 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Companys budgeted capital expenditures are approximately $800 million for 2011, primarily related to store remodels, maintenance, technology and omnichannel investments, and distribution network improvements, including construction of a new fulfillment center. Management presently anticipates funding such expenditures with cash on hand and cash from operations. Net cash used by the Company for all financing activities was $1,263 million for 2010, including the repayment of $1,245 million of debt and the payment of $84 million of cash dividends, partially offset by an increase in outstanding checks of $24 million and the issuance of $43 million of common stock, primarily related 20 Table of Contents to the exercise of stock options. The debt repaid during 2010 includes the early retirement of approximately $1,000 million of outstanding debt with various stated maturities, and payment at maturity of $76 million of 8.5% senior notes due June 1, 2010 and $150 million of 10.625% senior debentures due November 1, 2010. Net cash used by the Company for all financing activities was $1,072 million for 2009, including the repayment of $966 million of debt, a decrease in outstanding checks of $29 million, and the payment of $84 million of cash dividends. The debt repaid during 2009 included $350 million of 6.30% senior notes due April 1, 2009 and $600 million of 4.80% senior notes due July 15, 2009. The Company is a party to a credit agreement with certain financial institutions providing for revolving credit borrowings and letters of credit in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000 million (which amount may be increased to $2,500 million at the option of the Company, subject to the willingness of existing or new lenders to provide commitments for such additional financing) outstanding at any particular time. This agreement is set to expire August 30, 2012. As of January 29, 2011 and throughout all of 2010, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under this agreement. The credit agreement requires the Company to maintain a specified interest coverage ratio for the latest four quarters of no less than 3.25 and a specified leverage ratio as of and for the latest four quarters of no more than 4.50. The Companys interest coverage ratio for 2010 was 5.64 and its leverage ratio at January 29, 2011 was 2.34, in each case as calculated in accordance with the credit agreement. The interest coverage ratio is defined as EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) over net interest expense and the leverage ratio is defined as debt over EBITDA. For purposes of these calculations EBITDA is calculated as net income plus interest expense, taxes, depreciation, amortization, non cash impairment of goodwill, intangibles and real estate, non recurring cash charges not to exceed in the aggregate $500 million from the date of the agreement and extraordinary losses less interest income and non recurring or extraordinary gains. Debt and net interest are adjusted to exclude the premium on acquired debt and the resulting amortization, respectively. A breach of a restrictive covenant in the Companys credit agreement or the inability of the Company to maintain the financial ratios described above could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. In addition, an event of default would occur under the credit agreement if any indebtedness of the Company in excess of an aggregate principal amount of $150 million becomes due prior to its stated maturity or the holders of such indebtedness become able to cause it to become due prior to its stated maturity. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could, subject to the terms and conditions of the credit agreement, elect to declare the outstanding principal, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. Moreover, most of the Companys senior notes and debentures contain cross default provisions based on the non payment at maturity, or other default after an applicable grace period, of any other debt, the unpaid principal amount of which is not less than $100 million, that could be triggered by an event of default under the credit agreement. In such an event, the Companys senior notes and debentures that contain cross default provisions would also be subject to acceleration. At January 29, 2011, no notes or debentures contain provisions requiring acceleration of payment upon a debt rating downgrade. However, the terms of approximately $3,000 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys senior notes outstanding at that date require the Company to offer to purchase such notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest in specified circumstances involving both a change of control (as defined in the applicable indenture) of the Company and the rating of the notes by specified rating agencies at a level below investment grade. The rate of interest payable in respect of $612 million in aggregate principal amount of the Companys senior notes outstanding at January 29, 2011 decreased by .50 percent per annum to 8.375% effective in May 2010 as a result of an upgrade of the notes by specified rating agencies. The rate of interest payable in respect of 21 Table of Contents these senior notes outstanding at January 29, 2011 could increase by up to 1.50 percent per annum or decrease by up to .50 percent per annum from its current level in the event of one or more downgrades or upgrades of the notes by specified rating agencies. During 2010, the Company repurchased no shares of its common stock under its share repurchase program. The Companys share repurchase program is currently suspended. As of January 29, 2011, the Company had approximately $850 million of authorization remaining under its share repurchase program. The Company may continue or, from time to time, suspend repurchases of shares under its share repurchase program, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors. On February 25, 2011, the Companys board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of 5 cents per share on its common stock, payable April 1, 2011 to Macys shareholders of record at the close of business on March 15, 2011. At January 29, 2011, the Company had contractual obligations (within the scope of Item 303(a)(5) of Regulation S K) as follows: Obligations Due, by Period Total Less than1 Year 1 3Years 3 5Years More than5 Years (millions) Short term debt $ 451 $ 451 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Long term debt 6,702 0 1,219 1,179 4,304 Interest on debt 5,082 472 814 685 3,111 Capital lease obligations 58 6 10 7 35 Other long term liabilities 1,354 26 375 245 708 Operating leases 2,612 245 446 340 1,581 Letters of credit 38 38 0 0 0 Other obligations 2,320 1,988 265 61 6 $ 18,617 $ 3,226 $ 3,129 $ 2,517 $ 9,745 Other obligations in the foregoing table consist primarily of merchandise purchase obligations and obligations under outsourcing arrangements, construction contracts, employment contracts, group medical/dental/life insurance programs, energy and other supply agreements identified by the Company and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits that the Company expects to settle in cash in the next year. The Companys merchandise purchase obligations fluctuate on a seasonal basis, typically being higher in the summer and early fall and being lower in the late winter and early spring. The Company purchases a substantial portion of its merchandise inventories and other goods and services otherwise than through binding contracts. Consequently, the amounts shown as Other obligations in the foregoing table do not reflect the total amounts that the Company would need to spend on goods and services in order to operate its businesses in the ordinary course. The Company has not included in the contractual obligations table approximately $170 million of long term liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits for various tax positions taken or approximately $76 million of related accrued federal, state and local interest and penalties. These liabilities may increase or decrease over time as a result of tax examinations, and given the status of examinations, the Company cannot reliably estimate the period of any cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. The Company has included in the contractual obligations table $11 million of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits that the Company expects to settle in cash in the next year. The Company has not included in the contractual obligation table the $220 million Pension Plan liability. The Companys funding policy is to contribute amounts necessary to satisfy pension funding requirements, including requirements of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, plus such additional amounts from time to time as are determined to be appropriate to improve the Pension Plans funded status. The Pension Plans 22 Table of Contents funded status is affected by many factors including discount rates and the performance of Pension Plan assets. On March 28, 2011, the Company made a voluntary funding contribution to the Pension Plan of $225 million. The Company does not presently anticipate making any additional funding contributions to the Pension Plan during 2011, but may choose to do so in its discretion. Management believes that, with respect to the Companys current operations, cash on hand and funds from operations, together with its credit facility and other capital resources, will be sufficient to cover the Companys reasonably foreseeable working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements and other cash requirements in both the near term and over the longer term. The Companys ability to generate funds from operations may be affected by numerous factors, including general economic conditions and levels of consumer confidence and demand; however, the Company expects to be able to manage its working capital levels and capital expenditure amounts so as to maintain sufficient levels of liquidity. To the extent that the Companys cash balances from time to time exceed amounts that are needed to fund its immediate liquidity requirements, the Company will consider alternative uses of some or all of such excess cash. Depending upon its actual and anticipated sources and uses of liquidity, conditions in the capital markets and other factors, the Company will from time to time consider the issuance of debt or other securities, or other possible capital markets transactions, for the purpose of raising capital which could be used to refinance current indebtedness or for other corporate purposes, and the redemption or repurchase of debt or other securities through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Management believes the department store business and other retail businesses will continue to consolidate. The Company intends from time to time to consider additional acquisitions of, and investments in, department stores and other complementary assets and companies. Acquisition transactions, if any, are expected to be financed from one or more of the following sources: cash on hand, cash from operations, borrowings under existing or new credit facilities and the issuance of long term debt or other securities, including common stock. Critical Accounting Policies Merchandise Inventories Merchandise inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the last in, first out (LIFO) retail inventory method. Under the retail inventory method, inventory is segregated into departments of merchandise having similar characteristics, and is stated at its current retail selling value. Inventory retail values are converted to a cost basis by applying specific average cost factors for each merchandise department. Cost factors represent the average cost to retail ratio for each merchandise department based on beginning inventory and the fiscal year purchase activity. The retail inventory method inherently requires management judgments and contains estimates, such as the amount and timing of permanent markdowns to clear unproductive or slow moving inventory, which may impact the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margins. Permanent markdowns designated for clearance activity are recorded when the utility of the inventory has diminished. Factors considered in the determination of permanent markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. When a decision is made to permanently mark down merchandise, the resulting gross profit reduction is recognized in the period the markdown is recorded. The Company receives certain allowances from various vendors in support of the merchandise it purchases for resale. The Company receives certain allowances as reimbursement for markdowns taken and or to support the gross margins earned in connection with the sales of merchandise. These allowances are generally credited to cost of sales at the time the merchandise is sold in accordance with ASC Subtopic 605 50, Customer Payments and Incentives. The Company also receives advertising allowances from more than 1,000 of its merchandise vendors pursuant to cooperative advertising programs, with some vendors participating in multiple programs. These allowances represent reimbursements by vendors of costs incurred by the Company to promote the 23 Table of Contents vendors merchandise and are netted against advertising and promotional costs when the related costs are incurred in accordance with ASC Subtopic 605 50. Advertising allowances in excess of costs incurred are recorded as a reduction of merchandise costs. The arrangements pursuant to which the Companys vendors provide allowances, while binding, are generally informal in nature and one year or less in duration. The terms and conditions of these arrangements vary significantly from vendor to vendor and are influenced by, among other things, the type of merchandise to be supported. Although it is highly unlikely that there will be any significant reduction in historical levels of vendor support, if such a reduction were to occur, the Company could experience higher costs of sales and higher advertising expense, or reduce the amount of advertising that it uses, depending on the specific vendors involved and market conditions existing at the time. Physical inventories are generally taken within each merchandise department annually, and inventory records are adjusted accordingly, resulting in the recording of actual shrinkage. While it is not possible to quantify the impact from each cause of shrinkage, the Company has loss prevention programs and policies that are intended to minimize shrinkage. Physical inventories are taken at all store locations for substantially all merchandise categories approximately three weeks before the end of the fiscal year. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of sales at interim periods and for this approximate three week period, based on historical shrinkage rates. Long Lived Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges The carrying values of long lived assets are periodically reviewed by the Company whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment has occurred. For long lived assets held for use, a potential impairment has occurred if projected future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets. The estimate of cash flows includes managements assumptions of cash inflows and outflows directly resulting from the use of those assets in operations. When a potential impairment has occurred, an impairment write down is recorded if the carrying value of the long lived asset exceeds its fair value. The Company believes its estimated cash flows are sufficient to support the carrying value of its long lived assets. If estimated cash flows significantly differ in the future, the Company may be required to record asset impairment write downs. If the Company commits to a plan to dispose of a long lived asset before the end of its previously estimated useful life, estimated cash flows are revised accordingly, and the Company may be required to record an asset impairment write down. Additionally, related liabilities arise such as severance, contractual obligations and other accruals associated with store closings from decisions to dispose of assets. The Company estimates these liabilities based on the facts and circumstances in existence for each restructuring decision. The amounts the Company will ultimately realize or disburse could differ from the amounts assumed in arriving at the asset impairment and restructuring charge recorded. The Company classifies certain long lived assets as held for disposal by sale and ceases depreciation when the particular criteria for such classification are met, including the probable sale within one year. For long lived assets to be disposed of by sale, an impairment charge is recorded if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value less costs to sell. Such valuations include estimations of fair values and incremental direct costs to transact a sale. Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Company reviews the carrying value of its goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives at least annually for possible impairment in accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives have been assigned to reporting units for purposes of impairment testing. The reporting units are the Companys retail operating divisions. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually at the end of the fiscal month of May. The goodwill impairment test involves a two step process. The first step involves estimating the fair value of 24 Table of Contents each reporting unit based on its estimated discounted cash flows and comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. If this comparison indicates that a reporting units estimated fair value is less than its carrying value, a second step is required. If applicable, the second step requires the Company to allocate the fair value of the reporting unit to the estimated fair value of the reporting units net assets, with any fair value in excess of amounts allocated to such net assets representing the implied fair value of goodwill for that reporting unit. If the carrying value of an individual indefinite lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, such individual indefinite lived intangible asset is written down by an amount equal to such excess. The Company uses judgment in assessing whether assets may have become impaired between annual impairment tests. The occurrence of a change in circumstances, such as continued adverse business conditions or other economic factors, would determine the need for impairment testing between annual impairment tests. Due to deterioration in the general economic environment during 2008 (and the impact thereof on the Companys then most recently completed annual business plan) and the resultant decline in the Companys market capitalization, the Company believed that an additional goodwill impairment test was required as of January 31, 2009. In performing the first step of this impairment test, the Company estimated the fair value of its reporting units by discounting their projected future cash flows to present value, and reconciling the aggregate estimated fair value of the Companys reporting units to the trading value of the Companys common stock (together with an implied control premium). The Company believes that this reconciliation process represents a market participant approach to valuation. Based on this analysis, the Company determined that the carrying value of each of the Companys reporting units exceeded its fair value at January 31, 2009, which resulted in all of the Companys reporting units failing the first step of the goodwill impairment test. The Company then undertook the second step of the goodwill impairment test, which involved, among other things, obtaining third party appraisals of substantially all of the Companys tangible and intangible assets. Based on the results of its goodwill impairment testing as of January 31, 2009, the Company recorded a pre tax goodwill impairment charge of $5,382 million ($5,083 million after income taxes) in the fourth quarter of 2008. As a result of the 2008 goodwill impairment charge, the Macys retail operating division is the only reporting unit with goodwill. Based on the results of the most recent annual impairment test of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets completed during the second quarter of 2010, the Company determined that goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets were not impaired as of May 29, 2010 and the estimated fair value of the Macys retail operating division substantially exceeded its carrying value. The goodwill impairment testing process involves the use of significant assumptions, estimates and judgments by management, and is subject to inherent uncertainties and subjectivity. Estimating a reporting units discounted cash flows involves the use of significant assumptions, estimates and judgments with respect to a variety of factors, including sales, gross margin and SG&A rates, capital expenditures, cash flows and the selection and use of an appropriate discount rate. Projected sales, gross margin and SG&A expense rate assumptions and capital expenditures are based on the Companys annual business plan or other forecasted results. Discount rates reflect market based estimates of the risks associated with the projected cash flows of the reporting unit directly resulting from the use of its assets in its operations. The allocation of the estimated fair value of the Companys reporting units to the estimated fair value of their net assets also involves the use of significant assumptions, estimates and judgments. Both the estimates of the fair value of the Companys reporting units and the allocation of the estimated fair value of the reporting units to their net assets are based on the best information available to the Companys management as of the date of the assessment. The use of different assumptions, estimates or judgments in either step of the goodwill impairment testing process, including with respect to the estimated future cash flows of the Companys reporting units, the discount rate used to discount such estimated cash flows to their net present value, the reasonableness of the resultant implied control premium relative to the Companys market capitalization, and the appraised fair value of the reporting units tangible and intangible assets and liabilities, could materially increase or decrease the fair value of the reporting unit and or its net assets and, accordingly, could materially increase or decrease any related impairment charge. 25 Table of Contents Income Taxes Income taxes are estimated based on the tax statutes, regulations and case law of the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred income tax assets are evaluated for recoverability based on all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. Deferred income tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred income tax assets will not be realized. The Company changed its methodology for recording deferred state income taxes from a blended rate basis to a separate entity basis, and has reflected the effects of such change to 2010 and all prior periods. Even though the Company considers the change to have had only an immaterial impact on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the prior periods as previously reported have been adjusted to reflect the change. Uncertain tax positions are recognized if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Uncertain tax positions meeting the more likely than not recognition threshold are then measured to determine the amount of benefit eligible for recognition in the financial statements. Each uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Uncertain tax positions are evaluated and adjusted as appropriate, while taking into account the progress of audits of various taxing jurisdictions. The Company does not anticipate that resolution of these matters will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Significant judgment is required in evaluating the Companys uncertain tax positions, provision for income taxes, and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. Although the Company believes that its judgments are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in the Companys historical income provisions and accruals. Self Insurance Reserves The Company, through its insurance subsidiaries, is self insured for workers compensation and general liability claims up to certain maximum liability amounts. Although the amounts accrued are actuarially determined by third parties based on analysis of historical trends of losses, settlements, litigation costs and other factors, the amounts the Company will ultimately disburse could differ from such accrued amounts. Pension and Supplementary Retirement Plans The Company has a funded defined benefit pension plan (the Pension Plan) and an unfunded defined benefit supplementary retirement plan (the SERP). The Company accounts for these plans in accordance with ASC Topic 715, Compensation Retirement Benefits. Under ASC Topic 715, an employer recognizes the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability on the balance sheet and recognizes changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income. Additionally, pension expense is recognized on an accrual basis over employees approximate service periods. The pension expense calculation is generally independent of funding decisions or requirements. The Company anticipates that Pension and SERP expense, which was approximately $144 million in 2010, will remain comparable in 2011. 26 Table of Contents The Pension Protection Act of 2006 provides the funding requirements for the Pension Plan which are different from the employers accounting for the plan as outlined in ASC Topic 715. During 2010, the Company made funding contributions to the Pension Plan totaling approximately $825 million. On March 28, 2011, the Company made a voluntary funding contribution to the Pension Plan of $225 million. The Company does not presently anticipate making any additional funding contributions to the Pension Plan during 2011, but may choose to do so in its discretion. Management believes that, with respect to the Companys current operations, cash on hand and funds from operations, together with available borrowing under its credit facility and other capital resources, will be sufficient to cover the Companys Pension Plan cash requirements in both the near term and also over the longer term. At January 29, 2011, the Company had unrecognized actuarial losses of $1,116 million for the Pension Plan and $113 million for the SERP. The unrecognized losses for the Pension Plan and the SERP will be recognized as a component of pension expense in future years in accordance with ASC Topic 715, and is expected to impact 2011 Pension and SERP expense by approximately $90 million. The calculation of pension expense and pension liabilities requires the use of a number of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and liability amounts, and future actual experience may differ significantly from current expectations. The Company believes that the most critical assumptions relate to the long term rate of return on plan assets (in the case of the Pension Plan), the discount rate used to determine the present value of projected benefit obligations and the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels. As of January 29, 2011, the Company lowered the assumed annual long term rate of return for the Pension Plans assets from 8.75% to 8.00% based on expected future returns on the portfolio. The Company develops its expected long term rate of return assumption by evaluating input from several professional advisors taking into account the asset allocation of the portfolio and long term asset class return expectations, as well as long term inflation assumptions. Pension expense increases or decreases as the expected rate of return on the assets of the Pension Plan decreases or increases, respectively. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the Pension Plans assets by 0.25% (from 8.00% to 7.75%) would increase the estimated 2011 pension expense by approximately $8 million and raising the expected long term rate of return on the Pension Plans assets by 0.25% (from 8.00% to 8.25%) would decrease the estimated 2011 pension expense by approximately $8 million. The Company discounted its future pension obligations using a rate of 5.40% at January 29, 2011, compared to 5.65% at January 30, 2010. The discount rate used to determine the present value of the Companys Pension Plan and SERP obligations is based on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high quality corporate debt securities with various maturities. Each years expected future benefit payments are discounted to their present value at the appropriate yield curve rate, thereby generating the overall discount rate for Pension Plan and SERP obligations. Pension liability and future pension expense both increase or decrease as the discount rate is reduced or increased, respectively. Lowering the discount rate by 0.25% (from 5.40% to 5.15%) would increase the projected benefit obligation at January 29, 2011 by approximately $98 million and would increase estimated 2011 pension expense by approximately $11 million. Increasing the discount rate by 0.25% (from 5.40% to 5.65%) would decrease the projected benefit obligation at January 29, 2011 by approximately $89 million and would decrease estimated 2011 pension expense by approximately $10 million. The assumed weighted average age graded rate of increase in future compensation levels was 4.5% at January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010 for the Pension Plan, and 4.9% at January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010 for the SERP. The Company develops its rate of compensation increase assumption on an age graded basis based on recent experience and reflects an estimate of future compensation levels taking into account general increase levels, seniority, promotions and other factors. This assumption was revised during 2009 based on the completion of a third party assumption study reflecting more recent experience. Pension liabilities and future pension expense both increase or decrease as the weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels is 27 Table of Contents increased or decreased, respectively. Increasing or decreasing the assumed weighted average rate of increase of future compensation levels by 0.25% would increase or decrease the projected benefit obligation at January 29, 2011 by approximately $16 million and change estimated 2011 pension expense by approximately $4 million. New Pronouncements In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2010 06, which provides amendments and requires new disclosures relating to ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, and also conforming amendments to guidance relating to ASC Topic 715, Compensation Retirement Benefits. The Company adopted this guidance on January 31, 2010, except for the disclosure requirement regarding purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the rollforward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which the Company adopted on January 30, 2011. This guidance is limited to the form and content of disclosures, and the portion thereof that has been adopted did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Company does not anticipate that the full adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In July 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update No. 2010 20, which amends various sections of ASC Topic 310, Receivables, relating to a companys allowance for credit losses and the credit quality of its financing receivables. The amendment requires companies to provide disaggregated levels of disclosure by portfolio segment and class of financing receivable to enable users of the financial statements to understand the nature of credit risk, how the risk is analyzed in determining the related allowance for credit losses and changes to the allowance during the reporting period. The Company adopted this guidance as of January 29, 2011, except as it relates to disclosures regarding activities during a reporting period, which is effective for interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 31, 2010. This guidance is limited to the form and content of disclosures. The initial adoption did not have, and the full adoption is not expected to have, an impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update No. 2010 28, which amends ASC Topic 350, Goodwill and Other, relating to the goodwill impairment test of a reporting unit with zero or negative carrying amounts. This guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2010. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the Company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. The Company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The majority of the Companys borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. However, the Company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. At January 29, 2011, the Company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the Companys lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at January 29, 2011, the Company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date. 28 Table of Contents 
 
