FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20040927133442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(d) On September 21, 2004, the Board of Directors of Western Digital Corporation elected Arif Shakeel, President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, to the Board of Directors. Mr. Shakeel will not serve on any committee of the Board of Directors. A copy of the press release making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. 99.1 Press Release, dated September 23, 2004, issued by Western Digital Corporation
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Company contacts: Bob Blair Investor Relations 949.672.7834 robert.blair@wdc.com
Steve Shattuck Public Relations 949.672.7817 steve.shattuck@wdc.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
:
LAKE FOREST, Calif.  Sept. 23, 2004  Arif Shakeel, 49, has been named to the board of directors of Western Digital Corp. (NYSE: WDC). Shakeel is president and chief operating officer of the company. The company's board membership will remain at nine as of November 2004 when I.M. "Mac" Booth, 72, retires after more than 19 years of service as a director. Shakeel will also join the slate of directors and stand for election at the company's annual shareholders' meeting in November.
Matt Massengill, chairman and chief executive officer, stated, "Arif Shakeel is an outstanding addition to the WD board. He will provide valuable insight to board deliberations based on his strong management skills and instincts about the company's operations, its strategy, and the markets we serve.
"We are very grateful to Mac Booth for the dedicated service, counsel and oversight that he has provided for so many years to our company."
Shakeel began his association with Western Digital in 1985 and has served in a number of management, marketing, procurement and sales capacities. He was named chief operating officer of the company in April 2001 and president in January 2002. Under his operations leadership, Western Digital has delivered consistently profitable financial performance and achieved industry-leading quality and customer satisfaction levels.
Shakeel holds a Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering from Memphis State University and an MBA from Pepperdine University.
Booth has been a director of Western Digital since 1985. He was chairman, president and chief executive officer of Polaroid Corp. and retired from these positions in 1996.
About Western Digital
Western Digital, one of the storage industry's pioneers and long-time leaders, provides products and services for people and organizations that collect, manage and use digital information. The company produces reliable, high-performance hard drives that keep users' data close-at-hand and secure from loss.
Western Digital was founded in 1970. The company's storage products are marketed to leading systems manufacturers and selected resellers under the Western Digital brand name. Visit the Investor section of the company's Web site () to access a variety of financial and investor information.
www.westerndigital.com
Western Digital and the Western Digital logo are registered trademarks of Western Digital Technologies, Inc. All other trademarks herein are property of their respective owner.


