FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20051123170048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
2004 Performance Incentive Plan Amendment
     The Board of Directors (the "Board") of Western Digital Corporation (the "Company") has previously approved an amendment to the Western Digital Corporation 2004 Performance Incentive Plan (the "2004 Plan") that would increase the number of shares of the Company's common stock that may be delivered pursuant to awards granted under the 2004 Plan by an additional 13,000,000 shares. According to the results from the Company's annual stockholders meeting held on November 17, 2005, the Company's stockholders have approved the 2004 Plan amendment.
     The following summary of the 2004 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the 2004 Plan, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by this reference.
     The Board or one or more committees appointed by the Board administers the 2004 Plan. The Board has delegated general administrative authority for the 2004 Plan to the Compensation Committee of the Board.
     The administrator of the 2004 Plan has broad authority under the 2004 Plan to, among other things, select participants and determine the type(s) of award(s) that they are to receive, and determine the number of shares that are to be subject to awards and the terms and conditions of awards, including the price (if any) to be paid for the shares or the award.
     Persons eligible to receive awards under the 2004 Plan include officers or employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, directors of the Company, and certain consultants and advisors to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
     The maximum number of shares of the Company's common stock that may be issued or transferred pursuant to awards under the 2004 Plan equals the sum of: (1) 17,500,000 shares (after giving effect to the 2004 Plan amendment), plus (2) the number of shares available for additional award grant purposes under the Company's Employee Stock Option Plan immediately prior to the expiration of that plan on November 10, 2004, plus (3) the number of shares available for additional award grant purposes under the Company's Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors and the Company's Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan as of November 18, 2004 (the Employee Stock Option Plan, the Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors and the Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan are referred to collectively as the "Existing Plans"), plus (4) the number of any shares subject to stock options granted under the Existing Plans and outstanding as of November 18, 2004 which expire, or for any reason are cancelled or terminated, after that date without being exercised, plus (5) the number of any shares of restricted stock granted under the Company's Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan that are outstanding and unvested as of November 18, 2004 which are forfeited, terminated, cancelled or otherwise reacquired by the Company without having become vested.
     Shares issued in respect of any "full-value award" granted under the 2004 Plan will be counted against the share limit described in the preceding paragraph as 1.35 shares for every one share actually issued in connection with the award. For example, if a stock bonus of 100 shares of the Company's common stock were granted under the 2004 Plan, 135 shares would be charged against the share limit with respect to that stock bonus award. For this purpose, a "full-value award" generally means any award granted under the 2004 Plan other than: (1) shares delivered in respect of compensation earned but deferred, and (2) shares delivered pursuant to option or stock appreciation right grants the per share exercise or base price, as applicable, of which is at least equal to the fair market value of a share of the Company's common stock at the time of grant of the award.
     To the extent that an award is settled in cash or a form other than shares, the shares that would have been delivered had there been no such cash or other settlement will not be counted against the shares available for issuance under the 2004 Plan. In the event that shares are delivered in respect of a dividend equivalent right, only the actual number of shares delivered with respect to the award will be counted against the share limits of the 2004 Plan. To the extent that shares are delivered pursuant to the exercise of a stock option or stock appreciation right, the number of underlying shares as to which the exercise related shall be counted against the share limits of the 2004
Table of Contents
Plan, as opposed to only counting the shares actually issued. Shares that are subject to or underlie awards which expire or for any reason are cancelled or terminated, are forfeited, fail to vest, or for any other reason are not paid or delivered under the 2004 Plan will again be available for subsequent awards under the 2004 Plan.
     The types of awards that may be granted under the 2004 Plan include stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, stock bonuses and other forms of awards granted or denominated in the Company's common stock or units of the Company's common stock, as well as certain cash bonus awards.
     As is customary in incentive plans of this nature, each share limit and the number and kind of shares available under the 2004 Plan and any outstanding awards, as well as the exercise or purchase prices of awards, and performance targets under certain types of performance-based awards, are subject to adjustment in the event of certain reorganizations, mergers, combinations, recapitalizations, stock splits, stock dividends, or other similar events that change the number or kind of shares outstanding, and extraordinary dividends or distributions of property to the stockholders.
2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
     The Board has previously approved the Western Digital Corporation 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"). According to the results from the Company's annual stockholders meeting held on November 17, 2005, the Company's stockholders have approved the ESPP.
     The following summary of the ESPP is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the ESPP, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and incorporated herein by this reference.
     The Board or one or more committees appointed by the Board administers the ESPP. The Board has delegated general administrative authority for the ESPP to the Compensation Committee of the Board.
     Under the ESPP, 5,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock are available for purchase by eligible employees who elect to participate in the ESPP. Eligible employees will be entitled to purchase, by means of payroll deductions, limited amounts of the Company's common stock at a discount during periodic offering periods. An offering period may be up to twenty four months long, and may be divided into one or more exercise periods. The Compensation Committee will establish the methodology for setting the purchase price for the stock that may be purchased pursuant to the ESPP each exercise period, except that in no event may the purchase price for an exercise period be lower than the lesser of (i) 85% of the fair market value of a share of the Company's common stock at the start of the offering period in which the exercise period occurs, or (ii) 85% of the fair market value of a share of the Company's common stock on the last day of the exercise period.
     Subject to limited exceptions, all employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are eligible to participate in the ESPP. Subject to certain other limits, no eligible employee may purchase more than $25,000 of stock (valued at the start of the applicable offering period and without giving effect to any discounted purchase price) under the ESPP in any one calendar year.
     As is customary in stock plans of this nature, each share limit and the number and kind of shares available under the ESPP and any outstanding purchase rights, as well as the applicable purchase prices, are subject to adjustment in the event of certain reorganizations, mergers, combinations, recapitalizations, stock splits, stock dividends, or other similar events that change the number or kind of shares outstanding, and extraordinary dividends or distributions of property to the stockholders.
Director Compensation
     On November 17, 2005, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee that was based on input from external consultants, the Board approved the following changes to the compensation offered to members of the Board. These changes are effective as noted below:
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Executive Compensation
     On November 17, 2005, the Board, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, adjusted annual base salaries, effective November 17, 2005, for certain named executive officers. Such annual base salaries for each of Stephen D. Milligan and Raymond M. Bukaty were increased from $350,000 to $400,000. As described in Item 5.02 below, the Board set John F. Coyne's annual salary at $600,000.
     At a meeting on November 16, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board established the performance goals for the cash bonus awards under the Western Digital Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan (the "ICP Plan) for the second half of fiscal year 2006. The Compensation Committee determined that funding of the ICP Plan for this period will be based upon accomplishment of specific earnings per share and revenue targets, in various combinations. These predetermined performance goals were recommended to, and approved by, the non-management members of the Board on November 17, 2005.
"
     Under the ICP Plan, certain employees of the Company, including the Company's executive officers, may be awarded cash bonus awards based on the Company's achievement of these predetermined performance goals. For executive officers, a target bonus amount has been established as a percentage of base salary ranging from 65% to 100% of base salary. Depending upon the Company's achievement of these predetermined performance goals, the ICP Plan may fund based on a percentage of the target bonus amount (ranging from 0% to 200% of the target). However, individual participation in the ICP Plan is based on individual performance, and actual awards may vary upward or downward.
     Also on November 17, 2005, the Board, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, approved payment of a discretionary cash bonus in the amount of $102,438 to Raymond M. Bukaty, Senior Vice President, Administration, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company.
     A Summary of Compensation Arrangements for Named Executive Officers and Directors is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     On November 17, 2005, the Board promoted John F. Coyne, age 55, to the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer. Previously, Mr. Coyne served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations.
     In connection with Mr. Coyne's previous promotion to Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations, the Company entered into a letter agreement with Mr. Coyne, dated May 25, 2005 (the "May 2005 Letter"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.4 and is incorporated herein by reference. In light of Mr. Coyne's promotion to Chief Operations Officer, the Board, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, has modified certain terms of the May 2005 Letter that pertain to Mr. Coyne's compensation by the Company. Effective November 17, 2005, Mr. Coyne's annual base salary has increased from $450,000 to $600,000 and his target bonus amount (as a percentage of annual base salary) under the Western Digital Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan has also increased. In addition, pursuant to the various Company plans as set forth in the exhibits to the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board granted Mr. Coyne an award of
Table of Contents
300,000 restricted shares of the Company's common stock and a stock option to purchase 250,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $13.76 per share. Such restricted shares and stock option will vest over three years at 33 1/3% per year. In consideration of these awards, the award of 40,000 performance shares previously awarded to Mr. Coyne in May 2005 pursuant to the May 2005 Letter has been terminated by mutual agreement.
     The remainder of Mr. Coyne's May 2005 Letter, the material terms of which are described as follows, is unaltered. Mr. Coyne is employed "at will." He was granted certain relocation benefits, bonuses and payments in connection with his pending relocation from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia to Lake Forest, California. Contingent on approval by the Compensation Committee and subject to the terms and conditions of the 2004 Plan, in May 2005 pursuant to the May 2005 Letter, he was awarded 40,000 restricted shares of the Company's common stock with a three year vesting schedule of 33 1/3% per year and 30,000 restricted shares of the Company's common stock with a two year vesting schedule of 50% per year.
     Mr. Coyne is also entitled to participate in various Company plans as set forth in the exhibits to the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Western Digital Corporation Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Plan, effective March 29, 2001.
     Mr. Coyne joined the Company in 1983 and has served in various executive capacities. In November 2002, Mr. Coyne was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations. He was promoted to Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations, effective July 2005.
     The Company issued a press release on November 21, 2005, announcing Mr. Coyne's appointment to Chief Operations Officer, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
The purpose of this Western Digital Corporation 2004 Performance Incentive Plan (this "") of Western Digital Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), is to promote the success of the Corporation and to increase stockholder value by providing an additional means through the grant of awards to attract, motivate, retain and reward selected employees and other eligible persons.
Plan
Corporation
The Administrator (as such term is defined in Section 3.1) may grant awards under this Plan only to those persons that the Administrator determines to be Eligible Persons. An "" is any person who is either: (a) an officer (whether or not a director) or employee of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries; (b) a director of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries; or (c) an individual consultant or advisor who renders or has rendered bona fide services (other than services in connection with the offering or sale of securities of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries in a capital-raising transaction or as a market maker or promoter of securities of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries) to the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries and who is selected to participate in this Plan by the Administrator; provided, however, that a person who is otherwise an Eligible Person under clause (c) above may participate in this Plan only if such participation would not adversely affect either the Corporation's eligibility to use Form S-8 to register under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), the offering and sale of shares issuable under this Plan by the Corporation or the Corporation's compliance with any other applicable laws. An Eligible Person who has been granted an award (a "participant") may, if otherwise eligible, be granted additional awards if the Administrator shall so determine. As used herein, "" means any corporation or other entity a majority of whose outstanding voting stock or voting power is beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation; and "" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Eligible Person
Securities Act
Subsidiary
Board
 
 
 
 
provided that in no event shall the Share Limit exceed 48,199,313 shares (which is the sum of the 17,500,000 shares set forth above, plus the number of shares available under the Option Plans for additional award grant purposes as of the Effective Date (as such term is defined in Section 8.6.1), plus the aggregate number of shares subject to options previously granted and outstanding under the Option Plans as of the Effective Date, plus the maximum number of shares subject to restricted stock awards previously granted and outstanding under the Broad-Based Plan that had not vested as of the Effective Date).
Shares issued in respect of any "Full-Value Award" granted under this Plan shall be counted against the foregoing Share Limit as 1.35 shares for every one share actually issued in connection with such award. (For example, if a stock bonus of 100 shares of Common Stock is granted under this Plan, 135 shares shall be charged against the Share Limit in connection with that award.) For this purpose, a "Full-Value Award" means any award under this Plan that is either: (1) a delivery of shares in respect of compensation earned but deferred, (2) except as expressly provided in Section 5.1.1 (which generally provides that "discounted" stock option grants are Full-Value Awards), a stock option grant, and (3) except as expressly provided in Section 5.1.3 (which generally provides that "discounted" stock appreciation right grants are Full-Value Awards), a stock appreciation right grant.
not
The following limits also apply with respect to awards granted under this Plan:
 
Each of the foregoing numerical limits is subject to adjustment as contemplated by Section 4.3, Section 7.1, and Section 8.10.
 
. A stock option is the grant of a right to purchase a specified number of shares of Common Stock during a specified period as determined by the Administrator. An option may be intended as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code (an "") or a nonqualified stock option (an option not intended to be an ISO). The award agreement for an option will indicate if the option is intended as an ISO; otherwise it will be deemed to be a nonqualified stock option. The maximum term of each option (ISO or nonqualified) shall be ten (10) years. The per share exercise price for each option shall be not less than 100% of the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant of the option, except as follows: (a) in the case of a stock option granted as a substitution for another award, the per share exercise price may be no lower than the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date such other award was granted (to the extent consistent with Sections 422 and 424 of the Code in the case of options intended as incentive stock options); and (b) in any other circumstances, a nonqualified stock option may be granted with a per share exercise price that is less than the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant, provided that any shares delivered in respect of such option shall be charged against the Share Limit as a Full-Value Award and against the other applicable share limits of Section 4.2 as a Special Full-Value Award. When an option is exercised, the exercise price for the shares to be purchased shall be paid in full in cash or such other method permitted by the Administrator consistent with Section 5.5.
5.1.1
Stock Options
ISO
. To the extent that the aggregate fair market value (determined at the time of grant of the applicable option) of stock with respect to which ISOs first become exercisable by a participant in any calendar year exceeds $100,000, taking into account both Common Stock subject to ISOs under this Plan and stock subject to ISOs under all other plans of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries (or any parent or predecessor corporation to the extent required by and within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder), such options shall be treated as nonqualified stock options. In reducing the number of options treated as ISOs to meet the $100,000 limit, the most recently granted options shall be reduced first. To the extent a reduction of simultaneously granted options is necessary to meet the
5.1.2
Additional Rules Applicable to ISOs
 
$100,000 limit, the Administrator may, in the manner and to the extent permitted by law, designate which shares of Common Stock are to be treated as shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an ISO. ISOs may only be granted to employees of the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries (for this purpose, the term "subsidiary" is used as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code, which generally requires an unbroken chain of ownership of at least 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of each subsidiary in the chain beginning with the Corporation and ending with the subsidiary in question). There shall be imposed in any award agreement relating to ISOs such other terms and conditions as from time to time are required in order that the option be an "incentive stock option" as that term is defined in Section 422 of the Code. No ISO may be granted to any person who, at the time the option is granted, owns (or is deemed to own under Section 424(d) of the Code) shares of outstanding Common Stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Corporation, unless the exercise price of such option is at least 110% of the fair market value of the stock subject to the option and such option by its terms is not exercisable after the expiration of five years from the date such option is granted.
. A stock appreciation right or "" is a right to receive a payment, in cash and/or Common Stock, equal to the excess of the fair market value of a specified number of shares of Common Stock on the date the SAR is exercised over the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date the SAR was granted (the "base price") as set forth in the applicable award agreement, except as follows: (a) in the case of a SAR granted as a substitution for another award, the base price may be no lower than the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date such other award was granted; and (b) in any other circumstances, a SAR may be granted with a base price that is less than the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant, provided that any shares actually delivered in respect of such award shall be charged against the Share Limit as a Full-Value Award and against the other applicable share limits of Section 4.2 as a Special Full-Value Award. The maximum term of an SAR shall be ten (10) years.
5.1.3
Stock Appreciation Rights
SAR
. The other types of awards that may be granted under this Plan include: (a) stock bonuses, restricted stock, performance stock, stock units, phantom stock, dividend equivalents, or similar rights to purchase or acquire shares, whether at a fixed or variable price or ratio related to the Common Stock, upon the passage of time, the occurrence of one or more events, or the satisfaction of performance criteria or other conditions, or any combination thereof; (b) any similar securities with a value derived from the value of or related to the Common Stock and/or returns thereon; or (c) cash awards granted consistent with Section 5.2 below.
5.1.4
Other Awards
. Except for any accelerated vesting required or permitted pursuant to Section 7 and except as otherwise provided in the following provisions of this Section 5.1.5, and subject to such additional vesting requirements or conditions as the Administrator may establish with
5.1.5
Minimum Vesting Requirements
 
respect to the award, each award granted under this Plan that is a Full-Value Award and payable in shares of Common Stock shall be subject to the following minimum vesting requirements: (a) if the award includes a performance-based vesting condition, the award shall not vest earlier than the first anniversary of the date of grant of the award and vesting shall occur only if the award holder is employed by, a director of, or otherwise providing services to the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries on such vesting date; and (b) if the award does not include a performance-based vesting condition, the award shall not vest more rapidly than in monthly installments over the three-year period immediately following the date of grant of the award and vesting of any vesting installment of the award shall occur only if the award holder is employed by, a director of, or otherwise providing services to the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries on the date such installment is scheduled to vest; provided that the Administrator may accelerate or provide in the applicable award agreement for the accelerated vesting of any Full-Value Award in connection with a change in control of the award holder's employer (or a parent thereof), the termination of the award holder's employment (including a termination of employment due to the award holder's death, disability or retirement, but not including a termination of employment by the award holder's employer for cause), or as consideration or partial consideration for a release by the award holder of pending or threatened claims against the Company, the award holder's employer, or any of their respective officers, directors or other affiliates (regardless of whether the release is given in connection with a termination of employment by the award holder's employer for cause or other circumstances). The Administrator may, however, accelerate or provide in the applicable award agreement for the accelerated vesting of any Full-Value Award in circumstances not contemplated by the preceding sentence, and/or provide for a vesting schedule that is shorter than the minimum schedule contemplated by the preceding sentence, in such circumstances as the Administrator may deem appropriate; provided, however, that the portion of any such Full-Value Award that vests earlier than the minimum vesting dates that would be applicable pursuant to the minimum vesting requirements of the preceding sentence (or, as to any accelerated vesting, provides for accelerated vesting other than in the circumstances contemplated by the preceding sentence) shall count against the applicable share limits of Section 4.2 as a Special Full-Value Award (as opposed to counting against such limits only as a Full-Value Award).
 
basis) for the Corporation on a consolidated basis or for one or more of the Corporation's subsidiaries, segments, divisions or business units, or any combination of the foregoing. Any Qualifying Option or Qualifying SAR shall be subject only to the requirements of Section 5.2.1 and 5.2.3 in order for such award to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Award. Any other Performance-Based Award shall be subject to all of the following provisions of this Section 5.2.
The eligible class of persons for Performance-Based Awards under this Section 5.2 shall be officers and employees of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries. The Administrator approving Performance-Based Awards or making any certification required pursuant to Section 5.2.4 must be constituted as provided in Section 3.1 for awards that are intended as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
5.2.1
Class; Administrator
.
The specific performance goals for Performance-Based Awards (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs) shall be, on an absolute or relative basis, established based on one or more of the following business criteria ("") as selected by the Administrator in its sole discretion: earnings per share, cash flow (which means cash and cash equivalents derived from either net cash flow from operations or net cash flow from operations, financing and investing activities), total stockholder return, gross revenue, revenue growth, operating income (before or after taxes), net earnings (before or after interest, taxes, depreciation and/or amortization), return on equity or on assets or on net investment, cost containment or reduction, or any combination thereof. These terms are used as applied under generally accepted accounting principles or in the financial reporting of the Corporation or of its Subsidiaries. To qualify awards as performance-based under Section 162(m), the applicable Business Criterion (or Business Criteria, as the case may be) and specific performance goal or goals ("targets") must be established and approved by the Administrator during the first 90 days of the performance period (and, in the case of performance periods of less than one year, in no event after 25% or more of the performance period has elapsed) and while performance relating to such target(s) remains substantially uncertain within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. Performance targets shall be adjusted to mitigate the unbudgeted impact of material, unusual or nonrecurring gains and losses, accounting changes or other extraordinary events not foreseen at the time the targets were set unless the Administrator provides otherwise at the time of establishing the targets. The applicable performance measurement period may not be less than three months nor more than 10 years.
5.2.2
Performance Goals
.
Business Criteria
Grants or awards under this Section 5.2 may be paid in cash or shares of Common Stock or any combination thereof. Grants of Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs to any one participant in any one calendar year shall be subject to the limit set forth in Section 4.2(2). The maximum number of shares of Common Stock which may be delivered pursuant to Performance-Based Awards (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs, and other than cash awards covered by the
5.2.3
Form of Payment; Maximum Performance-Based Award
.
 
following sentence) that are granted to any one participant in any one calendar year shall not exceed 800,000 shares, either individually or in the aggregate, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 7.1. In addition, the aggregate amount of compensation to be paid to any one participant in respect of all Performance-Based Awards payable only in cash and not related to shares of Common Stock and granted to that participant in any one calendar year shall not exceed $5,000,000. Awards that are cancelled during the year shall be counted against these limits to the extent permitted by Section 162(m) of the Code.
Before any Performance-Based Award under this Section 5.2 (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs) is paid and to the extent required to qualify the award as performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator must certify in writing that the performance target(s) and any other material terms of the Performance-Based Award were in fact timely satisfied.
5.2.4
Certification of Payment
.
The Administrator will have the discretion to determine the restrictions or other limitations of the individual awards granted under this Section 5.2 including the authority to reduce awards, payouts or vesting or to pay no awards, in its sole discretion, if the Administrator preserves such authority at the time of grant by language to this effect in its authorizing resolutions or otherwise.
5.2.5
Reservation of Discretion
.
As required pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, the Administrator's authority to grant new awards that are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs) shall terminate upon the first meeting of the Corporation's stockholders that occurs in the fifth year following the year in which the Corporation's stockholders first approve this Plan.
5.2.6
Expiration of Grant Authority
.
 
In no event shall any shares newly-issued by the Corporation be issued for less than the minimum lawful consideration for such shares or for consideration other than consideration permitted by applicable state law. In the event that the Administrator allows a participant to exercise an award by delivering shares of Common Stock previously owned by such participant and unless otherwise expressly provided by the Administrator, any shares delivered which were initially acquired by the participant from the Corporation (upon exercise of a stock option or otherwise) must have been owned by the participant at least six months as of the date of delivery. Shares of Common Stock used to satisfy the exercise price of an option shall be valued at their fair market value on the date of exercise. The Corporation will not be obligated to deliver any shares unless and until it receives full payment of the exercise or purchase price therefor and any related withholding obligations under Section 8.5 and any other conditions to exercise or purchase have been satisfied. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the applicable award agreement, the Administrator may at any time eliminate or limit a participant's ability to pay the purchase or exercise price of any award or shares by any method other than cash payment to the Corporation.
 
"") for the date in question or, if no sales of Common Stock were made on the Exchange on that date, the closing price of a share of Common Stock as reported on said composite tape for the next preceding day on which sales of Common Stock were made on the Exchange. The Administrator may, however, provide with respect to one or more awards that the fair market value shall equal the last closing price of a share of Common Stock as reported on the composite tape for securities listed on the Exchange available at the relevant time or the average of the high and low trading prices of a share of Common Stock as reported on the composite tape for securities listed on the Exchange for the date in question or the most recent trading day. If the Common Stock is no longer listed or is no longer actively traded on the Exchange as of the applicable date, the fair market value of the Common Stock shall be the value as reasonably determined by the Administrator for purposes of the award in the circumstances. The Administrator also may adopt a different methodology for determining fair market value with respect to one or more awards if a different methodology is necessary or advisable to secure any intended favorable tax, legal or other treatment for the particular award(s) (for example, and without limitation, the Administrator may provide that fair market value for purposes of one or more awards will be based on an average of closing prices (or the average of high and low daily trading prices) for a specified period preceding the relevant date).
Exchange
. Unless otherwise expressly provided in (or pursuant to) this Section 5.7, by applicable law and by the award agreement, as the same may be amended, (a) all awards are non-transferable and shall not be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, anticipation, alienation, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge; (b) awards shall be exercised only by the participant; and (c) amounts payable or shares issuable pursuant to any award shall be delivered only to (or for the account of) the participant.
5.7.1
Limitations on Exercise and Transfer
. The Administrator may permit awards to be transferred to other persons or entities pursuant to such conditions and procedures, including limitations on subsequent transfers, as the Administrator may, in its sole discretion, establish in writing; provided, however, that any such transfer shall only be permitted if it is made by the participant for estate or tax planning or charitable purposes for no (or nominal) consideration, as determined by the Administrator. Any permitted transfer shall be subject to compliance with applicable federal and state securities laws.
5.7.2
Exceptions
. The exercise and transfer restrictions in Section 5.7.1 shall not apply to:
5.7.3
Further Exceptions to Limits on Transfer
 
 
The Administrator may adopt such valuation methodologies for outstanding awards as it deems reasonable in the event of a cash or property settlement and, in the case of options, SARs or similar rights, but without limitation on other methodologies, may base such settlement solely upon the excess if any of the per share amount payable upon or in respect of such event over the exercise or base price of the award. With respect to any award of an ISO, the Administrator may make such an adjustment that causes the option to cease to qualify as an ISO without the consent of the affected participant.
In any of such events, the Administrator may take such action prior to such event
 
to the extent that the Administrator deems the action necessary to permit the participant to realize the benefits intended to be conveyed with respect to the underlying shares in the same manner as is or will be available to stockholders generally. In the case of any stock split or reverse stock split, if no action is taken by the Administrator, the proportionate adjustments contemplated by clause (a) above shall nevertheless be made.
 
 
 
 
In any case where a tax is required to be withheld in connection with the delivery of shares of Common Stock under this Plan, the Administrator may in its sole discretion (subject to Section 8.1) grant (either at the time of the award or thereafter) to the participant the right to elect, pursuant to such rules and subject to such conditions as the Administrator may establish, to have the Corporation reduce the number of shares to be delivered by (or otherwise reacquire) the
 
appropriate number of shares, valued in a consistent manner at their fair market value or at the sales price in accordance with authorized procedures for cashless exercises, necessary to satisfy the minimum applicable withholding obligation on exercise, vesting or payment. In no event shall the shares withheld exceed the minimum whole number of shares required for tax withholding under applicable law. The Corporation may, with the Administrator's approval, accept one or more promissory notes from any Eligible Person in connection with taxes required to be withheld upon the exercise, vesting or payment of any award under this Plan; provided that any such note shall be subject to terms and conditions established by the Administrator and the requirements of applicable law.
. This Plan is effective as of September 21, 2004, the date of its approval by the Board (the ""). This Plan shall be submitted for and subject to stockholder approval no later than twelve months after the Effective Date. Unless earlier terminated by the Board, this Plan shall terminate at the close of business on the day before the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date. After the termination of this Plan either upon such stated expiration date or its earlier termination by the Board, no additional awards may be granted under this Plan, but previously granted awards (and the authority of the Administrator with respect thereto, including the authority to amend such awards) shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions and the terms and conditions of this Plan.
8.6.1
Effective Date
Effective Date
. The Board may, at any time, terminate or, from time to time, amend, modify or suspend this Plan, in whole or in part. No awards may be granted during any period that the Board suspends this Plan.
8.6.2
Board Authorization
. An amendment to this Plan shall be subject to stockholder approval: (a) if stockholder approval for the amendment is then required by applicable law or required under Sections 162, 422 or 424 of the Code to preserve the intended tax consequences of this Plan; (b) if the amendment constitutes a "material revision" of this Plan within the meaning of the applicable New York Stock Exchange listing rules or other applicable listing requirements; (c) if stockholder approval for the amendment is otherwise deemed necessary or advisable by the Board; or (d) if the amendment increases any of the share limits set forth in Section 4.2.
8.6.3
Stockholder Approval
. Without limiting any other express authority of the Administrator under (but subject to) the express limits of this Plan, the Administrator by agreement or resolution may waive conditions of or limitations on awards to participants that the Administrator in the prior exercise of its discretion has imposed, without the consent of a participant, and (subject to the requirements of Sections 3.2 and 8.6.5) may make other changes to the terms and conditions of awards. Any amendment or other action that would constitute a repricing of an award is subject to the limitations set forth in Section 3.2(g).
8.6.4
Amendments to Awards
 
. No amendment, suspension or termination of this Plan or change of or affecting any outstanding award shall, without written consent of the participant, affect in any manner materially adverse to the participant any rights or benefits of the participant or obligations of the Corporation under any award granted under this Plan prior to the effective date of such change. Changes, settlements and other actions contemplated by Section 7 shall not be deemed to constitute changes or amendments for purposes of this Section 8.6 and shall not require stockholder approval or the consent of the award holder.
8.6.5
Limitations on Amendments to Plan and Awards
. This Plan, the awards, all documents evidencing awards and all other related documents shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
8.8.1
Choice of Law
. If a court of competent jurisdiction holds any provision invalid and unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Plan shall continue in effect.
8.8.2
Severability
.
8.8.3
Plan Construction
 
 
As amended (Section 4.2) and restated January 21, 2005
As amended (Sections 3.1, 4.2, 4.3, 5.1.1, 5.1.3, 5.1.5, 5.7.2, 8.6.3, 8.6.5) September 22, 2005

 
Exhibit 10.2
      The Western Digital Corporation 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan") shall be established and operated in accordance with the following terms and provisions.
      1.     .
Definitions
      As used in the Plan the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 
      2.     .
Purpose of the Plan
      The purpose of the Plan is to provide an incentive for present and future Employees of the Company and its Participating Subsidiaries to acquire a proprietary interest (or increase an existing proprietary interest) in
 
the Company through the purchase of Common Stock. It is the intention of the Company that the Plan qualify as an "employee stock purchase plan" under Section 423 of the Code. Accordingly, the provisions of the Plan shall be administered, interpreted and construed in a manner consistent with the requirements of that section of the Code.
      3.     .
Shares Reserved for the Plan
      (a) There shall be reserved for issuance and purchase by Participants under the Plan an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of Common Stock, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 15 below. Shares of Common Stock subject to the Plan may be newly issued shares or shares reacquired in private transactions or open market purchases. If and to the extent that any right to purchase reserved shares shall not be exercised by any Participant for any reason or if such right to purchase shall terminate as provided herein, shares that have not been so purchased hereunder shall again become available for the purposes of the Plan unless the Plan shall have been terminated, but all shares sold under the Plan, regardless of source, shall be counted against the limitation set forth above.
      (b) From time to time and without shareholder approval, the Committee may fix a maximum limit on the number of shares that may be acquired by any individual during an Exercise Period under the Plan, which limit shall be effective no earlier than the first Offering Period that commences after the determination of such limit by the Committee; provided, however, that any adjustment to such limit pursuant to Section 15 shall apply to any Exercise Period in progress at the time such adjustment is made.
      4.     .
Administration of the Plan
      (a) The Plan shall be administered by a Committee appointed by, and which shall serve at the pleasure of, the Board. The Committee shall consist of two or more directors, each of whom is a "Non-Employee Director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as such rule may be amended from time to time. The Committee shall have authority to interpret the Plan, to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan, all of which actions and determinations shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons.
      (b) The Committee may request advice or assistance or employ such other persons as it in its absolute discretion deems necessary or appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan, including, but not limited to employing a brokerage firm, bank or other financial institution to assist in the purchase of shares, delivery of reports or other administrative aspects of the Plan.
      (c) Neither the Board nor any Committee, nor any member thereof or person acting at the direction thereof, shall be liable for any act, omission, interpretation, construction or determination made in good faith in connection with the Plan, and all such persons shall be entitled to indemnification and reimbursement by the Company in respect of any claim, loss, damage or expense (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees) arising or resulting therefrom to the fullest extent permitted by law and/or under any directors and officers liability insurance coverage that may be in effect from time to time.
      5.     .
Eligibility to Participate in the Plan
      Subject to limitations imposed by Section 423(b) of the Code, any Eligible Employee who is employed by the Company or a Participating Subsidiary on an Enrollment Date shall be eligible to participate in the Plan for the Offering Period beginning on that Enrollment Date.
      6.     .
Offering Periods
      During the term of the Plan, the Company will grant options to purchase shares of Common Stock in each Offering Period to all Participants in that Offering Period. The Committee shall determine from time to time, subject to the requirements of Section 423 of the Code and no later than the first Offering Period to commence under the Plan, when Offering Periods will be offered during the term of the Plan and shall establish the Enrollment Date(s), the number and duration of the Exercise Period(s), and the Exercise Date(s) for such Offering Period(s), which determinations shall be effective no later than the first Offering
 
Period that commences after they are made by the Committee and provided, however, that no Offering Period may exceed twenty-four (24) months in duration. To the extent consistent with Section 423 of the Code, the Committee may provide for a new Offering Period to commence prior to the termination of one or more preceding Offering Periods.
      7.     .
Election to Participate in the Plan
      (a) Each Eligible Employee may elect to participate in an Offering Period by completing an enrollment agreement on a form approved by and in a manner prescribed by the Committee (or its delegate) or, if the Committee does not require enrollment forms, by otherwise completing such enrollment procedures as the Committee may prescribe. Such agreement must be filed with the Company or such other procedures must be completed, as applicable, prior to the applicable Enrollment Date, unless the Committee establishes an earlier deadline for filing the enrollment form for all Eligible Employees with respect to a given Offering Period. An Eligible Employee may participate in an Offering Period only if, as of the Enrollment Date of such Offering Period, such Eligible Employee is not participating in any prior Offering Period which is continuing at the time of such proposed enrollment.
      (b) Payroll deductions for a Participant shall commence on the first payroll date on or following the Enrollment Date and shall end on the last payroll date in the Offering Period to which such authorization is applicable, unless sooner terminated by the Participant as provided in Section 12.
      (c) Unless a Participant elects otherwise prior to the Enrollment Date of the immediately succeeding Offering Period, an Eligible Employee who is participating in an Offering Period as of the last Exercise Date of such Offering Period (the "Prior Offering Period") shall be deemed (i) to have elected to participate in the immediately succeeding Offering Period and (ii) to have authorized the same payroll deduction for such immediately succeeding Offering Period as was in effect for such Participant immediately prior to the expiration or termination of the Prior Offering Period.
      (d) In its discretion, the Committee may determine (with such determination to be effective no earlier than the first Offering Period that commences after such determination by the Committee) that the participation of all Participants on an Exercise Date in an Offering Period that includes more than one Exercise Period shall terminate and such Participants shall be enrolled in a new Offering Period commencing immediately following such Exercise Date if, during such Offering Period, the Fair Market Value determined as of such Exercise Date within such Offering Period is lower than the Fair Market Value determined as of the Enrollment Date of such Offering Period. In such event, each of such Participants shall be deemed for purposes of this Plan (i) to have elected to participate in such new Offering Period, and (ii) to have authorized the same payroll deduction for such new Offering Period as was in effect for such Participant immediately prior to the Termination Date.
      8.     .
Payroll Deductions
      (a) All Participant contributions to the Plan shall be made only by payroll deductions. At the time a Participant files the enrollment agreement with respect to an Offering Period, the Participant shall authorize payroll deductions to be made on each payroll date during the Offering Period in an amount up to 10% (or such other limit as the Committee may establish prior to the start of the applicable Offering Period) of the Eligible Compensation which the Participant receives on each payroll date during such Offering Period. The Committee also may prescribe other limits, rules or procedures for payroll deductions. Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, the amount of such payroll deductions shall be a whole percentage (i.e., 1%, 2%, 3%, etc.) of the Participant's Eligible Compensation.
      (b) All payroll deductions made for a Participant shall be deposited in the Company's general corporate account and shall be credited to the Participant's account under the Plan. No interest shall accrue or be credited with respect to the payroll deductions of a Participant under the Plan. A Participant may not make any additional payments into such account. All payroll deductions received or held by the Company under the Plan may be used by the Company for any corporate purpose, and the Company shall not be obligated to segregate such payroll deductions.
 
      (c) A Participant may discontinue participation in the Plan as provided in Section 12. Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in advance of an Offering Period, a Participant may at any time during the Offering Period (but no more than four times in any calendar year) reduce or increase (subject to the limitations of Section 8(a) above) the rate of his or her payroll deductions by completing and filing with the Company a change notice in the form provided by the Company. Any such reduction in the rate of a Participant's payroll deductions shall be effective as of the pay period specified by the Participant in the Participant's change notice, but in no event sooner than the first pay period ending more than fifteen (15) days after the Participant files the change notice with the Company. Any such increase in the rate of a Participant's payroll deductions shall be effective as of the first date of the next Exercise Period within such Offering Period.
      9.     
.
Grant of Options
      (a) On the Enrollment Date of each Offering Period, subject to the limitations set forth in Sections 3, 9(b) and 17 hereof, each Participant shall be granted an option to purchase on each Exercise Date during such Offering Period up to a number of shares of the Common Stock determined by dividing such Participant's payroll deductions accumulated during the Exercise Period ending on such Exercise Date by the Exercise Price for such Exercise Period (determined as provided in Section 10 below), provided that the number of shares subject to the option shall not exceed five (5) times the number of shares determined by dividing (i) 10% (or such other maximum limit on a Participant's payroll deductions for the Offering Period as the Committee may establish pursuant to Section 8(a)) of the Participant's Eligible Compensation over the Offering Period (determined based upon the Participant's rate of Eligible Compensation in effect as of the Enrollment Date), by (ii) the Fair Market Value of a share of the Common Stock on the Enrollment Date multiplied by the percentage (not less than 85%) used to calculate the Exercise Price for that Offering Period.
      (b) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no Participant shall be granted an option under the Plan (i) if, immediately after the grant, such Participant (or any other person whose stock would be attributed to such Participant pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code) would own stock and/or hold outstanding options to purchase stock possessing 5% or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or of any Parent or any Subsidiary of the Company, or (ii) which permits such Participant's rights to purchase stock under all employee stock purchase plans of the Company, its Subsidiaries and any Parent to accrue at a rate which exceeds $25,000 of fair market value of such stock (determined at the time such option is granted) for each calendar year in which such option is outstanding at any time.
      10.     
.
Exercise Price
      The Committee shall establish from time to time (but no later than the first Offering Period to commence under the Plan) the method for determining the Exercise Price for each Offering Period under the Plan in accordance with this Section 10, which determination shall be effective no earlier than the first Offering Period that commences after such determination is made by the Committee. In making its determination, the Committee may provide that the Exercise Price for an Offering Period shall be determined by applying a discount amount (not to exceed 15%) to either (1) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Enrollment Date of such Offering Period, or (2) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the applicable Exercise Date, or (3) the of the Fair Market Value of a share on the Enrollment Date of such Offering Period or the Fair Market Value of a share on the applicable Exercise Date. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the preceding provisions of this Section 10, in no event shall the Exercise Price per share be less than the par value of a share of Common Stock.
lesser
      11.     
.
Exercise of Options
      Unless a Participant withdraws from the Plan as provided in Section 12, the Participant's option for the purchase of shares will be exercised automatically on each Exercise Date of the Offering Period, and the maximum number of full shares subject to option will be purchased for the Participant at the applicable Exercise Price with the accumulated payroll deductions in the Participant's account. Any amount remaining in the Participant's account after an Exercise Date that is not sufficient to purchase a whole share shall be held
 
in the account until the next Exercise Date in such Offering Period, unless the Offering Period has been over-subscribed or has terminated with such Exercise Date, in which event (or in the event any other applicable Plan limit has been exceeded by that Participant in that Offering Period) such amount shall be refunded to the Participant.
      12.     
.
Withdrawal; Termination of Employment
      (a) A Participant may withdraw all but not less than all of the payroll deductions credited to the Participant's account under the Plan at any time by giving written notice to the Company. All of the Participant's payroll deductions credited to the Participant's account will be paid to him or her promptly after receipt of the Participant's notice of withdrawal, the Participant's participation in the Plan will be automatically terminated, and no further payroll deductions for the purchase of shares will be made. Payroll deductions will not resume on behalf of a Participant who has withdrawn from the Plan unless written notice is delivered to the Company within the open enrollment period preceding the commencement of an Exercise Period directing the Company to resume payroll deductions.
      (b) Upon termination of the Participant's Continuous Employment prior to the Exercise Date of an Offering Period for any reason, including retirement or death, the payroll deductions credited to the Participant's account will be returned to the Participant or, in the case of death, to the Participant's estate, and the Participant's options to purchase shares under the Plan will be automatically terminated.
      (c) In the event a Participant fails to maintain Continuous Employment for at least twenty (20) hours per week during an Offering Period, the Participant will be deemed to have elected to withdraw from the Plan, the payroll deductions credited to the Participant's account will be returned to the Participant, and the Participant's options to purchase shares under the Plan will be terminated.
      (d) A Participant's withdrawal from an Offering Period will not have any effect upon the Participant's eligibility to participate in a succeeding Offering Period or in any similar plan which may hereafter be adopted by the Company.
      13.     
.
Transferability
      Neither payroll deductions credited to a Participant's account nor options to purchase Common Stock granted under the Plan may be transferred, assigned, pledged or otherwise disposed of by a Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Options granted under the Plan are exercisable during a Participant's lifetime only by the Participant.
      14.     
.
Reports
      Individual accounts will be maintained for each Participant in the Plan. Statements of account will be given to Participants promptly following each Exercise Date, which statements will set forth the amounts of payroll deductions, the per share purchase price, the number of shares purchased and the remaining cash balance, if any.
      15.     
.
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization
      (a) If the outstanding shares of Common Stock are increased or decreased, or are changed into or are exchanged for a different number or kind of shares, as a result of one or more reorganizations, restructurings, recapitalizations, reclassifications, stock splits, reverse stock splits, stock dividends or any similar unusual or extraordinary corporate transaction, appropriate adjustment shall be made in the number and/or kind of shares, and the Exercise Price thereof, which may be issued in the aggregate and to any Participant upon exercise of options granted under the Plan.
      (b) In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, each Offering Period then in progress will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action, unless otherwise provided by the Committee. In the event of a proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the merger of the Company with or into another corporation or entity, each option under the Plan shall be assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted by such successor corporation or entity or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation or entity, unless the Committee determines, in the exercise
 
of its sole discretion and in lieu of such assumption or substitution, that the Participants shall have the right to exercise the option as to all of the optioned stock. If the Committee makes an option fully exercisable under these circumstances in lieu of assumption or substitution, each Offering Period then in progress shall be shortened and a new Exercise Date shall be set (the ""), as of which date any Offering Period then in progress will terminate. The New Exercise Date shall be on or before the date of consummation of the transaction and the Committee shall notify each participant in writing, at least ten (10) days prior to the New Exercise Date, that the Exercise Date for his or her option has been changed to the New Exercise Date and that his or her option will be exercised automatically on the New Exercise Date, unless prior to such date he or she has withdrawn from the Offering Period as provided in Section 12. The Exercise Price on the New Exercise Date shall be determined as provided in Section 10 hereof, and for purposes of determining such Exercise Price, the New Exercise Date shall be treated as the "Exercise Date."
New Exercise Date
      (c) In all cases, the Committee shall have full discretion to exercise any of the powers and authority provided under this Section 15, and the Committee's actions hereunder shall be final and binding on all Participants. No fractional shares of stock shall be issued under the Plan pursuant to any adjustment authorized under the provisions of this Section 15.
      16.     
.
Amendment of the Plan
      The Board may at any time, or from time to time, amend or suspend the Plan, in whole or in part and without notice; provided, however, that the Plan may not be amended in any way that will cause rights issued under the Plan to fail to meet the requirements for employee stock purchase plans as defined in Section 423 of the Code or any successor thereto, including, without limitation, shareholder approval if required. No options may be granted during any suspension of the Plan or after a termination of the Plan pursuant to Section 17(b) below, but the Committee will retain jurisdiction as to options then outstanding in accordance with the terms of the Plan. No amendment, suspension or termination pursuant to this Section 16 or Section 17 shall, without written consent of the Participant, affect in any manner materially adverse to the Participant any right or benefits of such Participant or obligations of the Company under any option granted under the Plan prior to the effective date of such change; provided that the Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan as to any outstanding options granted under the Plan for an Offering Period, effective as of any Exercise Date within that Offering Period, without the consent of the Participants to whom such options were granted. In no event shall changes contemplated by Section 7(d) or Section 15 be deemed to constitute changes or amendments requiring Participant consent.
      17.     
.
Termination of the Plan
      The Plan and all rights of Employees hereunder shall terminate:
      In the event that the Plan terminates under circumstances described in Section 17(a) above, reserved shares remaining as of the termination date shall be sold to Participants on a pro rata basis.
      18.     
.
Notices
      All notices or other communications by a Participant to the Company under or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly given when received in the form specified by the Company at the location, or by the person, designated by the Company for the receipt thereof.
      19.     
.
Shareholder Approval
      Continuance of the Plan shall be subject to approval by the shareholders of the Company within twelve months before or after the date the Plan is adopted. If such shareholder approval is obtained at a duly held shareholders' meeting, it may be obtained by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Company present or represented and entitled to vote thereon.
 
      20.     
.
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
      (a) The Plan, the grant and exercise of options to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Plan, and the Company's obligation to sell and deliver shares upon the exercise of options to purchase shares shall be subject to all applicable federal, state and foreign laws, rules and regulations, and to such approvals by any regulatory or governmental agency as may, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, be required.
      (b) The Company may make such provisions as it deems appropriate for withholding by the Company pursuant to federal or state income tax laws of such amounts as the Company determines it is required to withhold in connection with the purchase or sale by a Participant of any Common Stock acquired pursuant to the Plan. The Company may require a Participant to satisfy any relevant tax requirements before authorizing any issuance of Common Stock to such Participant.
      21.     
.
Employees' Rights
      (a) Nothing in the Plan (or in any other document related to the Plan) will confer upon any Eligible Employee or Participant any right to continue in the employ or other service of the Company or any Subsidiary, constitute any contract or agreement of employment or other service or affect an employee's status as an employee at will, nor shall interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to change such person's compensation or other benefits or to terminate his or her employment or other service, with or without cause. Nothing contained in this Section 21(a), however, is intended to adversely affect any express independent right of any such person under a separate employment or service contract.
      (b) No Participant or other person will have any right, title or interest in any fund or in any specific asset (including shares of Common Stock) of the Company or any Subsidiary by reason of any option hereunder. Neither the provisions of the Plan (or of any other document related to the Plan), nor the creation or adoption of the Plan, nor any action taken pursuant to the provisions of the Plan will create, or be construed to create, a trust of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Subsidiary and any Participant or other person. To the extent that a Participant or other person acquires a right to receive payment pursuant to the Plan, such right will be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company.
      (c) A Participant will not be entitled to any privilege of stock ownership as to any shares of Common Stock not actually delivered to and held of record by the Participant. No adjustment will be made for dividends or other rights as a shareholder for which a record date is prior to such date of delivery.
      22.     
.
Miscellaneous
      (a) The Plan, the options granted hereunder and any other documents related to the Plan shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.
      (b) If any provision of the Plan shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid and unenforceable, the remaining provisions of the Plan shall continue in effect.
      (c) Captions and headings are given to the sections of the Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such captions and headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction of interpretation of the Plan or any provision hereof.
      (d) The adoption of the Plan shall not affect any other Company or Subsidiary compensation or incentive plans in effect. Nothing in the Plan will limit or be deemed to limit the authority of the Board or Committee (1) to establish any other forms of incentives or compensation for employees of the Company or any Subsidiary (with or without reference to the Common Stock), or (2) to grant or assume options (outside the scope of and in addition to those contemplated by the Plan) in connection with any proper corporate purpose; to the extent consistent with any other plan or authority. Benefits received by a Participant under an option granted pursuant to the Plan shall not be deemed a part of the Participant's compensation for purposes of the determination of benefits under any other employee welfare or benefit plans or arrangements, if any, provided by the Company or any Subsidiary, except where the Committee or the Board (or the Board of Directors of the Subsidiary that sponsors such plan or arrangement, as applicable) expressly otherwise provides or authorizes in writing.

 
Exhibit 10.3
Named Executive Officers
This summary sheet reports current base salaries and certain other compensation for (1) the current executive officers of Western Digital Corporation (the "Company") who were named in the Summary Compensation Table in the Company's Proxy Statement filed October 4, 2005 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Named Executive Officers") and (2) the Company's current Chief Operations Officer who is not presently one of the Named Executive Officers.
 
     The Named Executive Officers and Mr. Coyne are eligible to receive cash bonus awards as disclosed in Item 1.01 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 23, 2005, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     The Named Executive Officers and Mr. Coyne are entitled to participate in various Company plans as set forth in the exhibits to the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     In addition, the Named Executive Officers and Mr. Coyne may be eligible to receive perquisites and other personal benefits as disclosed in the Company's Proxy Statement.
Directors
     The Company's non-employee directors currently receive an annual retainer of $40,000 in January, or if they join the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") at a later date, they receive a proportion of the annual fee corresponding to the period for which they serve. The non-employee directors also currently receive compensation of $2,500 for each session during which they attend a Board meeting, $1,500 for any and all committee meetings attended, $1,250 for each Board meeting and $750 for each committee meeting held by telephone conference, and reimbursement of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending each meeting. In addition, the chairman of each committee of the Board receives an annual retainer of $5,000.
     Effective January 1, 2006, the Company's non-employee directors will receive an annual retainer of $75,000 in January, or if they join the Board at a later date, they receive a proportion of the annual fee corresponding to the period for which they serve. Also effective January 1, 2006, the chairman of the audit committee of the Board will receive an annual retainer of $10,000 and the chairman of each of the Governance Committee and the Compensation Committee will receive an annual retainer of $5,000. All audit committee members, including the chairman, will receive an annual retainer of $5,000. Non-employee directors will continue to be reimbursed for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending Board and committee meetings, but directors will not receive separate payments for attendance at Board and committee meetings.
     Mr. Massengill and Mr. Shakeel, who are employees of the Company, do not receive any compensation for their service on the Board or any Board committee.
     At a Board meeting held on August 5, 2005, the Board approved the payment of $2,500 per day (or time aggregating a full work day) for time spent by any independent director outside of board or committee meetings assisting with specified succession planning matters.
     The Company's non-employee directors are entitled to participate in various other Company plans as set forth in the exhibits to the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

 
Exhibit 10.4
Western Digital Technologies, Inc. 20511 Lake Forest Drive Lake Forest, California 92630
Senior Vice President, Administration, General Counsel & Secretary
Raymond M. Bukaty
May 25, 2005
Mr. John F. Coyne 20511 Lake Forest Drive Lake Forest, CA 92630
Dear John:
Please consider this letter confirmation of Western Digital Technologies, Inc.'s (the "Company" or "Western Digital") intentions concerning your relocation to the United States from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. These terms are in accordance with the "Expatriate Policy Guide" in force at the time of your assignment.
Commencing July 2, 2005, you will be promoted to the position of Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations, grade 77, in Lake Forest, CA. This position will report to Arif Shakeel, President and Chief Operating Officer.
Please note that the Company must disclose certain information about its executive officers in periodic filings with various governing and regulatory agencies (e.g. SEC, State of Delaware, State of California, NYSE, etc.). Therefore, while you are an executive officer, the Company will require that you complete questionnaires from time-to-time so that the Company can accurately disclose this information.
Effective July 2, 2005, your compensation will be at an annualized base salary of $450,000 paid on a bi-weekly basis. Your benefits elections under the Beneflex Plan will remain unchanged. You agree you will transition your residence from Malaysia to the United States, close to the corporate headquarters in Lake Forest, California, no later than January 2006. Per the Expatriate Policy Guide in force at the time of your assignment, you will receive a relocation allowance in the amount of $37,500 within 45 days of your return to the United States. This payment is considered a bonus and is intended to help you set up your home back in the United States to cover such expenses as cleaning, painting, new carpet, utility transfers, and other such miscellaneous expenses you might incur.
You will continue to be eligible to participate in the FY'05 and FY'06 Incentive Compensation Plan (ICP) commensurate with your position within the organization. As an
 
John F. Coyne 5/25/2005 2
Executive Vice President, your potential ICP payment target is 75% of your base salary. Your participation will continue to be based on your individual accomplishments and contingent upon approval by the Company's Compensation Committee.
Contingent on approval by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors and subject to the terms and conditions of the Western Digital Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan, you will also receive (i) a Restricted Stock Award of 40,000 shares with a three year vesting schedule of 33-1/3% per year, (ii) a Transition Restricted Stock Award of 30,000 shares with a two year vesting schedule of 50% per year, and (iii) a Performance Share Award of 40,000 shares with a three year vesting schedule of 0% vesting years one and two and 100% vesting year three. You will receive information further explaining the Performance Share Award at a later date.
Outstanding Personal Balances
You must take care of any miscellaneous outstanding balances that you may have incurred as a result of your assignment. These may include but are not limited to: medical payments made on your behalf by Western Digital; American Club or equivalent charges; and resident move-out charges. This also applies to any unpaid tax equalization settlements due to the Company. Western Digital will pay up to U.S. $1,000 in move-out charges.
Return Travel Expenses
You will be reimbursed for specific en route expenses incurred while returning from your international assignment for up to a maximum of seven days. Western Digital will pay the following:
Travel arrangements must be made through Western Digital's Travel Department.
Cultural Re-Orientation
You may participate in a Cultural Re-Orientation Program provided by Family Guidance International, Inc. (FGI). The purpose of this program will be to learn what you may expect upon returning to the United States. The program may also be customized to meet your individual needs. This program is made available to assist you in a successful relocation. If you wish to take advantage of this benefit, please contact Roseann Schaefer at the Company.
 
John F. Coyne 5/25/2005 3
Temporary Living Expenses & Auto Rental
Temporary lodging will be provided to you by the Company for up to 30 days. Auto rental of a mid-size car will be provided to you for a maximum of 30 days upon your return to the United States. You will also receive a temporary living allowance of $2,750 for the duration of temporary living between 1 and 30 days, and, if necessary, one additional temporary living allowance of $2,750 for stays over 31 days to cover miscellaneous expenses during your temporary living stay.
The first $2,750 allowance will be paid within 30 days of your arrival and is considered taxable income to you. The second payment, if necessary, will be paid within the second 30 days of your stay and is also considered taxable income to you.
Return Shipment of Household Goods & Storage
You will be limited to 10,000 pounds surface shipment of household goods and up to 1,000 pounds air shipment. Coverage includes packing, shipping, customs duties, approved interim storage for up to 90 days, delivery and insurance coverage against loss or damage. Please refer to the document regarding Return Shipment of Household Goods and Storage, a copy of which is delivered with this letter, for additional details.
Tax Assistance
Because your international assignment has carried over into 2005, Western Digital will authorize Ernst and Young to prepare your 2005 tax return and the Company will cover any Malaysian taxes that you have incurred prior to July 2, 2005, and you will be responsible for Malaysian and any other applicable income taxes with respect to income earned on or after July 2, 2005.
Please be advised that it may take twelve to eighteen months to complete tax settlements. If you voluntarily terminate your employment with Western Digital, you will be responsible for all tax filings (U.S. and international) for the year of termination. If Western Digital terminates your employment prior to completing your 2005 tax settlement, the Company will pay for your tax preparation services and cover any Malaysian taxes that you have incurred prior to July 2, 2005.
Shortly after your return to the United States you must contact Ernst & Young LLP in Los Angeles, CA. The purpose of this meeting will be to review your tax situation and to take the necessary steps to transition you from your international assignment tax pattern to a domestic withholding pattern.
Acceptance of Agreement
By signing this letter agreement, you understand that the relocation benefits offered to you, as specified in this letter agreement, constitute all of the benefits for which you are eligible
 
John F. Coyne 5/25/2005 4
to receive and supersedes any prior understanding or agreement between you and Western Digital regarding the subject matter hereof. Exceptions to such relocation benefits must be made in writing and are subject to all necessary approvals.
You further understand and agree that nothing in this letter agreement is intended to create a contract of, or guarantee of, employment by Western Digital, or to modify in any respect, Western Digital's "at will" employment policy.
Please sign and return to Western Digital one copy of this letter as your acceptance of the terms and conditions outlined in this letter and the document regarding Return Shipment of Household Goods and Storage, a copy of which is delivered with this letter. If there is a conflict between the terms and conditions specified herein and the terms and conditions specified in the "Expatriate Policy Guide," the terms and conditions herein shall govern.
Sincerely,


