FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20061023172425.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 240.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01 Other Events.
      Western Digital Corporation (the "Company") announced today that a Special Committee of its Board of Directors, comprised solely of independent directors, has reported the results of its findings after the completion of a three month, company-initiated, voluntary review of its historical stock option grants. The full text of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
      The Special Committee, together with independent counsel and forensic accountants, reviewed all option grants of the Company during the period from July 1, 1997 through June 30, 2006. The Special Committee's advisors also reviewed more than 220,000 electronic documents and interviewed 35 current and former employees and directors.
      The Special Committee identified, and the Company concluded, that the appropriate measurement date for 28 option grants made on 27 separate grant dates during the period from fiscal 1998 through fiscal 2003 differed from the originally stated grant dates for such awards. Because the prices at the originally stated grant dates were, for 19 of such grants, lower than the prices on the appropriate measurement dates for such grants, the Company determined it should have recognized stock-based compensation expense and additional tax expense in its historical financial statements for these 19 grants. For the remaining 9 grants, since the prices at the originally stated grant dates were at or above the prices on the appropriate measurement dates for such grants, the Company determined that no accounting adjustment should be made for these grants.
Special Committee Findings
      Key findings from the Special Committee's investigation include:
Table of Contents
Remedial Actions and Reporting
      The Special Committee concluded that while process improvements had been made in the Company's grant making process since 2002, additional improvements in controls and procedures over stock option grants were needed and the Special Committee made recommendations to the Board for such improvements. The Board adopted all of these recommendations and these changes are being made. In response to the Special Committee's findings and recommendations, the Board also made a change in the composition of its Compensation and Governance Committees and to oversight of the administration of the stock option granting process. With respect to the change in the composition of the Board committees, Mr. Peter D. Behrendt, a director, will continue to serve on the Board of Directors but will no longer serve on the Compensation Committee or the Governance Committee. No other personnel changes are anticipated in response to the stock options review.
      The Company and its independent auditors are continuing to review the findings of the Special Committee as well as the recent accounting guidance published by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The Company has not yet determined how the accounting adjustments will be reflected in its financial statements.
      As previously reported, the Company does not anticipate a material adjustment to the fiscal 2005 and 2006 operating results included in its July 27, 2006 earnings release. The Company plans to file its Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 as promptly as practicable after concluding if any changes to its historical financial statements are required. The Company also has announced it will report financial results for its first quarter of fiscal 2007 on November 2, 2006, and it anticipates doing so in its customary fashion.
      The Company has informed the staff of the Enforcement Division of the SEC's Pacific Regional Office of the Special Committee's investigation and conclusions and will cooperate fully in the event of any inquiry.
Table of Contents
Derivative Litigation
      The following purported shareholder derivative actions have been filed challenging conduct by certain of the Company's current and former board members and officers in connection with various stock option grants:
The Company has joined the other defendants in filing a motion to dismiss the and actions.
Dreyfus
Kastella and Sakamoto
The foregoing contains a forward-looking statement regarding the Company's current anticipation that the stock option review will not result in a material adjustment to the fiscal 2005 and 2006 operating results included in its July 27, 2006 press release. This forward-looking statement is based on the Company's current expectations and is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statement, including risks and uncertainties relating to developments in regulatory and legal guidance regarding stock option grants and accounting for such grants. For example, information may be learned and analysis may be undertaken concerning the Company's historic stock option grants and accounting that may materially impact the Company's financial statements or results. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on this forward-looking statement, which speaks only as of the date hereof, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update this forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Company contacts:
Bob Blair Investor Relations 949.672.7834
robert.blair@wdc.com
Steve Shattuck Public Relations 949.672.7817
steve.shattuck@wdc.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
      WD ANNOUNCES RESULTS OF SPECIAL BOARD COMMITTEE INVESTIGATION
      LAKE FOREST, Calif.  Oct. 23, 2006  Western Digital Corp. (NYSE: WDC) announced today that a Special Committee of its Board of Directors, comprised solely of independent directors, has completed a three month, company-initiated, voluntary review of its historical stock option grants. The Company filed a Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission today reporting the findings of the Special Committee.
      Key findings from the Special Committee's investigation include:
 
      The Special Committee made recommendations to the Board for improvements in controls and procedures over stock option grants. The Board adopted all of these recommendations and these changes are being made. In response to the Special Committee's findings and recommendations, the Board also made a change in the composition of its Compensation and Governance Committees and to oversight of the administration of the stock option granting process. No other personnel changes are anticipated in response to the stock options review.
      The Company and its independent auditors are continuing to review the findings of the Special Committee as well as the recent accounting guidance published by the SEC. The Company has not yet determined how the accounting adjustments will be reflected in its financial statements.
      As previously reported, the Company does not anticipate a material adjustment to the fiscal 2005 and 2006 operating results included in its July 27, 2006 earnings release. The Company plans to file its Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 as promptly as practicable after concluding if any changes to its historical financial statements are required. The Company also has announced it will report financial results for its first quarter of fiscal 2007 on November 2, 2006, and it anticipates doing so in its customary fashion.
      The Company has informed the staff of the Enforcement Division of the SEC's Pacific Regional Office of the Special Committee's investigation and conclusions and will cooperate fully in the event of any inquiry.
About WD
      WD, one of the storage industry's pioneers and long-time leaders, provides products and services for people and organizations that collect, manage and use digital information. The company produces reliable, high-performance hard drives that keep users' data close-at-hand and secure from loss.
 
      WD was founded in 1970. The company's storage products are marketed to leading systems manufacturers and selected resellers under the Western Digital and WD brand names. Visit the Investor section of the company's Web site (www.westerndigital.com) to access a variety of financial and investor information.
      This press release contains a forward-looking statement regarding the Company's current anticipation that the stock option review will not result in a material adjustment to the fiscal 2005 and 2006 operating results included in its July 27, 2006 press release. This forward-looking statement is based on the Company's current expectations and is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statement, including risks and uncertainties relating to developments in regulatory and legal guidance regarding stock option grants and accounting for such grants. For example, information may be learned and analysis may be undertaken concerning the Company's historic stock option grants and accounting that may materially impact the Company's financial statements or results. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on this forward-looking statement, which speaks only as of the date hereof, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update this forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
      Western Digital and WD are registered trademarks, and the Western Digital logo is a trademark of Western Digital Technologies, Inc.


