FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20060516162926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On May 10, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") of Western Digital Corporation (the "Company") approved an amendment to the definition of "retired" in Section 6(d) of each of the Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option and Stock Option Award Agreement -- Executives (the "Exective Stock Option Agreement") and the Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option and Stock Option Award Agreement -- Non-Executives (the "Non-Executive Stock Option Agreement"). Effective for stock options awarded on or after May 10, 2006, a participant will be deemed to be "retired" for purposes of Section 6(d) if the participant retires from employment with the Company or one of its subsidiaries for any reason other than Cause (as defined in the award agreements) after satisfying all of the following at the time of such retirement: (i) the participant is at least 65 years of age, (ii) the participants age plus total years of continuous service with the Company or any of its sub sidiaries totals at least 75, and (iii) the participant has five (5) or more years of continuous service with the Company or any of its subsidiaries ending on the date of the participant's retirement. All other material terms of the Executive Stock Option Agreement and the Non-Executive Stock Option Agreement remain unaltered. A copy of each of the Executive Stock Option Agreement and the Non-Executive Stock Option Agreement, as amended, are filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1.1 and Exhibit 10.1.5, respectively, and are incorporated herein by this reference. In addition, the disclosure in Item 5.02 below is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On May 11, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company promoted John Coyne, age 55, to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer effective as of June 1, 2006. Mr. Coyne currently serves as Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer. Effective June 1, 2006, Arif Shakeel will no longer serve as President of the Company but he will remain the Company's Chief Executive Officer. In connection with Mr. Coyne's promotion, effective June 1, 2006, Mr. Coyne's annual base salary will increase from $600,000 to $650,000 and his target bonus amount (as a percentage of annual base salary) under the Western Digital Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan will also increase. In addition, Mr. Coyne has been awarded the following awards under the Company's Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan:  a stock option to purchase 65,000 shares of the Company's common stock, which stock option will vest 25% on the first anniversary of its grant date and in substantially e qual installments every three-month period thereafter and is subject to the Companys Notice of Grant of Stock Option and Stock Option Agreement  Executives in substantially the form filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1.1;  30,000 restricted stock units, which stock units will vest 100% on the third anniversary of their grant date and are subject to the Notice of Grant of Stock Units and Stock Unit Award Agreement  Executives in substantially the form previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and  a long-term cash target award equal to $600,000, which award will be subject to the Notice of Grant of Long-Term Cash Award and Long-Term Cash Award Agreement  Executives in substantially the form previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and will be subject to performance goals to be established and approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Except as modified with respect to Mr. Coyne's co mpensation by the Company as described above, the letter agreement between Mr. Coyne and the Company, dated May 25, 2005 (the "May 2005 Letter"), remains unaltered. The material terms of the May 2005 Letter are described in Item 5.02 of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on November 23, 2005, and a copy of the May 2005 Letter has been filed as Exhibit 10.4 to such Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Mr. Coyne is also entitled to participate in various Company plans as set forth in exhibits to the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Western Digital Corporation Executive Severance Plan, effective February 16, 2006, and the Western Digital Corporation Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Plan, effective March 29, 2001. Mr. Coyne joined the Company in 1983 and has served in various executive capacities. In November 2002, Mr. Coyne was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations. He was promoted to Exec utive Vice President, Worldwide Operations in July 2005 and to Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer in November 2005.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On May 10, 2006 and upon the recommendation of the Governance Committee, the Board of Directors approved an amendment to Section 3.03 of the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws") to change the voting standard for the election of directors from a plurality to a majority of the votes cast in uncontested elections. A "majority of the votes cast" means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of votes cast "against" the director. In contested elections, where the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the vote standard will continue to be a plurality of votes cast. The Board of Directors also adopted a director resignation policy in its amendment of Section 3.03 of the Bylaws to apply in the event that an incumbent director is not reelected. In such event, the director will be required to offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors. If such resignation is conditioned upon Board acceptance, the Governance Comm ittee of the Board of Directors will evaluate the resignation in light of the best interests of the Company and its stockholders and will make a recommendation to the Board of Directors on whether to accept or reject the resignation or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors will act on the recommendation of the Governance Committee and will publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within 90 days from the date of the certification of election results. The director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the decision of the Board of Directors or Governance Committee. However, if no directors receive the requisite majority vote in an uncontested election, the incumbent Board will nominate a new slate of directors and will hold a special meeting for the purpose of electing new directors within 180 days after the certification of the stockholder vote at the prior meeting. In this circumstance, the Board of Directors will continue to serve unti l new directors are elected and qualified. The Bylaws, as amended, are effective as of May 10, 2006 and are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.3. In addition, a copy of the press release announcing the Board of Director's adoption of a majority voting standard for director elections is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. 3.3 Amended and Restated Bylaws of Western Digital Corporation, as amended effective as of May 10, 2006. 10.1.1 Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option and Option Agreement -- Executives, under the Western Digital Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan. 10.1.5 Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option and Option Agreement -- Non-Executives, under the Western Digital Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan. 99.1 Press Release issued by Western Digital Corporation on May 16, 2006 announcing the Company's adoption of majority voting for director elections.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

The registered office of Western Digital Corporation (this "Corporation") in the State of Delaware shall be at 9 East Loockerman Street, Dover, County of Kent, and the name of the registered agent in charge thereof shall be National Registered Agents, Inc.
1.01
Registered Office.
The principal office for the transaction of the business of this Corporation shall be 20511 Lake Forest Drive, in the City of Lake Forest, County of Orange, State of California. The Board of Directors (the "Board") is hereby granted full power and authority to change said principal office from one location to another.
1.02
Principal Office
.
This Corporation may also have such other offices at such other places, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board may from time to time determine or as the business of this Corporation may require.
1.03
Other Offices.
If required by applicable law, annual meetings of the stockholders of this Corporation shall be held for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such proper business as may come before such meetings.
2.01
Annual Meetings
.
Special meetings of the stockholders may be called at any time by the Board, the Chairman of the Board or the President.
2.02
Special Meetings
.
All meetings of the stockholders shall be held at such time, date and place, if any, within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board and stated in the notice of the meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice thereof.
2.03
Place of Meetings
.
Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a notice of the meeting shall be given that shall state the place, if any, date and time of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, the notice of any meeting shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of this Corporation. Notice to stockholders hereunder may be given by a form of electronic transmission in accordance with applicable law if consented to by the stockholders to whom the notice is given.
2.04
Notice of Meetings
.
Any meeting of stockholders, annual or special, may adjourn from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place, if any, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place, if any, or means of remote communication, if any, thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting, this Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
2.05
Adjournments.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, at each meeting of stockholders the presence in person or by proxy of the holders of a majority in voting power of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote at the meeting shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum. In the absence of a quorum, the stockholders so present may, by a majority in voting power thereof, adjourn the meeting from time to time in the manner provided in Section 2.05 of these By-laws until a quorum shall attend.
2.06
Quorum
.
2.07
Voting
.
(a) Except as otherwise provided by or pursuant to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by such stockholder which has voting power upon the matter in question and which shall have been held by and registered in the name of the stockholder on the books of this Corporation on the date fixed pursuant to Section 2.10 of these By-laws as the record for the determination of stockholder entitled to notice of and to vote at a meeting.
(b) Shares of its own stock belonging to this Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by this Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes. Persons holding stock of this Corporation in a fiduciary capacity shall be entitled to vote such stock. Persons whose stock is pledged shall be entitled to vote, unless in the transfer by the pledgor on the books of this Corporation the pledgor shall have expressly empowered the pledge to vote thereon. Stock having voting power that is held of record in the names of two or more persons, whether fiduciaries, members of a partnership, joint tenants in common, tenants by entirety or otherwise, or with respect to which two or more persons have the same fiduciary relationship, shall be voted in accordance with the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "General Corporation Law").
(c) Any such voting rights may be exercised by the stockholder entitled thereto in person or by the stockholder's proxy; provided, however, that no proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date unless said proxy shall provide for a longer period. A proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. The attendance at any meeting of a stockholder who may theretofore have given a proxy which is not irrevocable shall not have the effect of revoking the same, unless the stockholder shall attend the meeting and vote in person or deliver to the Secretary a revocation of the proxy or a new proxy bearing a later date. At any meeting of the stockholders at which a quorum is present all matters, except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws, the rules or regulations of any stock exchange applicable to this Corporation, or applicable law or pursuant to any regulation applicable to this Corporation or its securities, shall be decided by the vote of a majority in voting power of the stockholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereon. The vote at any meeting of the stockholders on any question need not be by written ballot, unless so directed by the chairman of the meeting. On a vote by ballot each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by his or her proxy, if there be such proxy, and it shall state the number of shares voted.
The officer who has charge of the stock ledger shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting (a) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of meeting or (b) during ordinary business hours at the principal place of business of this Corporation. The list of stockholders must also be open to examination at the meeting as required by applicable law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the list of stockholders required by this Section 2.08 or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
2.08
List of Stockholders
.
This Corporation shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors of election, who may be employees of this Corporation, to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof and to make a written report thereof. This Corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. In the event that no inspector so appointed or designated is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspector or inspectors so appointed or designated shall (i) ascertain the number of shares of capital stock of this Corporation outstanding and the voting power of each such share, (ii) determine the shares of capital stock of this Corporation represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares of capital stock of this Corporation represented at the meeting and such inspectors' count of all votes and ballots. Such certification and report shall specify such other information as may be required by law. In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots cast at any meeting of stockholders of this Corporation, the inspectors may consider such information as is permitted by applicable law. No person who is a candidate for an office at an election may serve as an inspector at such election.
2.09
Inspector of Elections
.
In order that this Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board, and which record date: (1) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, shall, unless otherwise required by law, not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting; and (2) in the case of any other action, shall not be more than sixty (60) days prior to such other action. If no record date is fixed: (1) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and (2) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
2.10
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholder of Record
.
2.11 Stockholder Proposals and Nominations.
(a) Annual Meetings of Stockholders.
(i) Nominations of persons for election to the Board and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (A) pursuant to this Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (B) by or at the direction of the Board or (C) by any stockholder of this Corporation who was a stockholder of record of this Corporation at the time the notice provided for in this Section 2.11 is delivered to the Secretary of this Corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.11. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in order for a proposal or director nomination to be considered at the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2005 Annual Meeting"), stockholders must give written notice of any proposal or nomination of a director to the Secretary of this Corporation at the principal executive offices of this Corporation not less than 60 days nor more than 120 days prior to the scheduled date of the 2005 Annual Meeting, regardless of any postponements, deferrals or adjournments of the 2005 Annual Meeting to a later date. The 2005 Annual Meeting is currently scheduled for November 17, 2005. Stockholder proposals or nominations for director that do not meet the notice requirements set forth above will not be acted upon at the 2005 Annual Meeting.
(ii) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (C) of paragraph (a)(i) of this Section 2.11, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of this Corporation and any such proposed business other than the nominations of persons for election to the Board must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of this Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than seventy (70) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by this Corporation). In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth: (A) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (1) all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and (2) such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (B) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the By-laws, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (C) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (1) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on this Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (2) the class and number of shares of capital stock of this Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (3) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of this Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (4) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (x) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of this Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (y) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination. The foregoing notice requirements of this Section 2.11 shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified this Corporation of his or her intention to present a proposal or nomination at an annual meeting in compliance with applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal or nomination has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by this Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. This Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of this Corporation.
(iii) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section 2.11 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by this Corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 2.11 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for the additional directorships, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of this Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by this Corporation.
(b) Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to this Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to this Corporation's notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board or (ii) provided that the Board has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of this Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this Section 2.11 is delivered to the Secretary of this Corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting upon such election and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.11. In the event this Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in this Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section 2.11 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of this Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
(c) General.
(i) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.11 shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of this Corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.11. Except as otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (A) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.11 (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made solicited (or is part of a group which solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with such stockholder's representation as required by clause (a)(ii)(C)(4) of this Section 2.11) and (B) if any proposed nomination or business was not made or proposed in compliance with this Section 2.11, to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.11, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of this Corporation to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by this Corporation. For purposes of this Section 2.11, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
(ii) For purposes of this Section 2.11, "public announcement" shall include disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by this Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.11, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2.11. Nothing in this Section 2.11 shall be deemed to affect any rights (A) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals or nominations in this Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act or (B) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation.
The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board, the person presiding over any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to convene and to adjourn the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such presiding person, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board or prescribed by the presiding person of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (a) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (b) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (c) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of this Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the presiding person of the meeting shall determine; (d) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (e) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. The presiding person at any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a matter or business was not properly brought before the meeting and if such presiding person should so determine, such presiding person shall so declare to the meeting and any such matter or business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted or considered. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board or the person presiding over the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
2.12
Conduct of Meetings.
Subject to the requirements of the General Corporation Law, the property, business and affairs of this Corporation shall be managed by the Board.
3.01
General Powers
.
The Board shall consist of one or more members, the number thereof to be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board. Directors need not be stockholders. Each of the directors of this Corporation shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall qualify or until he or she shall resign or shall have been removed in the manner provided in these By-laws.
3.02
Number and Term of Office
.
The directors shall be elected annually by the stockholders of this Corporation. Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.05 below, each director shall be elected by the vote of a majority of the votes cast with respect to such director at any annual or special meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the nominees receiving the greatest number of votes of the shares represented in person or by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors, up to the number of directors to be elected, shall be the directors. For purposes of this Section 3.03, a "majority of the votes cast" means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of votes cast "against" that director. If an incumbent director is not reelected but would otherwise remain in office until his or her successor is elected and qualified, the director shall offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board, which may be conditioned upon acceptance of such resignation by the Board. If a resignation is so conditioned, the Governance Committee of the Board, or such other committee designated by the Board pursuant to Section 3.14 below, will evaluate any such resignation in light of the best interests of this Corporation and its stockholders and will make a recommendation to the Board on whether to accept or reject such resignation or whether other action should be taken with respect thereto. In making its recommendation, such committee may consider any factors it deems relevant, including the director's qualifications, the director's past and expected future contributions to this Corporation, the overall composition of the Board and whether accepting the tendered resignation would cause this Corporation to fail to satisfy or otherwise comply with any applicable rule or regulation (including NYSE listing requirements and federal securities laws). The Board will act on the recommendation of such committee and will publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within ninety (90) days from the date of the certification of the election results. The director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the decision of the Board or Board committee.
3.03
Election of Directors
.
If no directors receive the requisite majority vote at an annual or special meeting held for the election of directors where the number of nominees does not exceed the number of directors to be elected, the incumbent Board will nominate a new slate of directors and hold a special meeting for the purpose of electing those nominees within 180 days after the certification of the stockholder vote at the prior meeting. In this circumstance, the incumbent Board will continue to serve until new directors are duly elected and qualified.
Any director of this Corporation may resign at any time by giving notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the Board or to the Secretary of this Corporation. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or, if the time be not specified, it shall take effect immediately upon its receipt by the Board or the Secretary; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
3.04
Resignations
.
Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, any vacancy in the Board, whether because of death, resignation, disqualification, an increase in the number of directors, or any other cause, may be filled by vote of the majority of the remaining directors, although less than a quorum, or by a plurality of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders. Each director so chosen to fill a vacancy shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been elected and shall qualify or until he or she shall resign or shall have been removed in the manner provided in these By-laws. If there are no directors in office, then an election of directors may be held in the manner provided by the General Corporation Law.
3.05
Vacancies
.
The Board may hold any of its meetings at such place or places within or without the State of Delaware as the Board may from time to time by resolution designate or as shall be designated by the person or persons calling the meeting or in the notice or a waiver of notice of any such meeting. Directors may participate in any regular or special meeting of the Board by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment pursuant to which all persons participating in the meeting of the Board can hear each other, and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
3.06
Place of Meeting, Etc
.
The Board shall meet as soon as practicable after each annual election of directors and notice of such first meeting shall not be required, provided a quorum shall be present; or such meeting may be held at such time and place as shall be specified in a notice given as hereinafter provided for special meetings of the Board, or as shall be specified in a waiver given by each person entitled to notice.
3.07
First Meeting
.
Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times and places as the Board shall from time to time by resolution determine. If any day fixed for a regular meeting shall be a legal holiday at the place where the meeting is to be held, then the meeting shall be held at the same time and place on the next succeeding business day not a legal holiday.
3.08
Regular Meetings
.
Special meetings of the Board for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary or any two directors. Notice of a special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be given by the person or persons calling the meeting at least twenty-four (24) hours before the special meeting.
3.09
Special Meetings
.
Except as otherwise provided in these By-laws, the Certificate of Incorporation or by law, the presence of a majority of the authorized number of directors shall be required to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board, and all matters shall be decided at any such meeting, a quorum being present, by the affirmative votes of a majority of the directors present. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of directors present at any meeting may adjourn the same from time to time until a quorum shall be present. Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given. The directors shall act only as a Board, and the individual directors shall have no power as such.
3.10
Quorum and Manner of Acting
.
Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and such writing or writings or electronic transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
3.11
Action by Consent
.
Except as otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or applicable law, any director may be removed at any time, either with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of the stockholders then entitled to vote at an election of directors having a majority of the voting power of this Corporation given at an annual meeting or a special meeting of the stockholders called for such purpose.
3.12
Removal of Directors
.
The directors shall receive only such compensation for their services as directors as may be allowed by resolution of the Board. The Board may also provide that this Corporation shall reimburse each such director for any expense incurred by such director on account of his or her attendance at any meetings of the Board or committees of the Board. Neither the payment of such compensation nor the reimbursement of such expenses shall be construed to preclude any director from serving this Corporation or its subsidiaries in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
3.13
Compensation
.
3.14
Committees
.
(a) The Board may appoint one or more committees, each consisting of one or more directors, and delegate to such committees any of the authority of the Board permitted by law except with respect to:
(i) the approval or adoption, or the making of a recommendation to the stockholders with respect to, any action or matter that is required under the General Corporation Law to be submitted to the stockholders;
(ii) the filling of vacancies on the Board or on any committee;
(iii) except as otherwise required by law or the rules and regulations of any nationally recognized securities exchange on which shares of this Corporation's stock are traded, the fixing of compensation of the directors for serving on the Board or on any committee;
(iv) the amendment or repeal of these By-laws or the adoption of new By-Laws;
(v) the amendment or repeal of any resolution of the Board which by its express terms is not amendable or repealable;
(vi) distribution to the stockholders of this Corporation except at a rate or in a periodic amount or within a price range determined by the Board; or
(vii) the appointment of other committees of the Board or the members thereof.
(b) Any such committee must be appointed by resolution adopted by a majority of the authorized number of directors and may be designated an Executive Committee or by such other name as the Board shall specify. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent member at any meeting of the committee. The appointment of members or alternate members of a committee requires the vote of a majority of the authorized number of directors. The Board shall have the power to prescribe the manner in which proceedings of any such committee shall be conducted. In the absence of any such prescription, such committee shall have the power to prescribe the manner in which its proceedings shall be conducted. Unless the Board or such committee shall provide, the regular and special meetings of any such committee shall be governed by the provisions of this Article applicable to meetings and actions of the Board. Minutes shall be kept of each meeting of such committee and filed with the Secretary of this Corporation.
The passage of any resolution of the committee designated by the Board as the Executive Committee shall, in addition to any other limitations prescribed by the Board in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.14, require the affirmative vote of a majority of directors present and voting on such resolution who are not employees of this Corporation.
3.15
Executive Committee
.
Every director shall have the right to any reasonable time to inspect and copy all books, records, and documents of every kind and to inspect the physical properties of this Corporation and also of its subsidiaries, domestic or foreign. Such inspection by a director may be made in person or by agent or attorney and includes the right to copy and obtain extracts.
3.16
Rights of Inspection
.
Meetings of the Board shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his or her absence by the Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his or her absence by the President, or in their absence by a chairperson chosen at the meeting. The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in his or her absence the chairperson of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
3.17
Organization.
4.01
Corporate Officers.
(a) The officers of this Corporation shall consist of a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Secretary and a Chief Financial Officer. This Corporation may have, at the discretion of the Board, a Chairman of the Board.
(b) In addition to the officers specified in Section 4.01(a), the Board may appoint such additional officers as the Board may deem necessary or desirable, including one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, a Treasurer and one or more Assistant Treasurers, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority and perform such duties as the Board may from time to time determine. The Board may delegate to any officer of this Corporation or any committee of the Board the power to appoint, remove and prescribe the term and duties of any officer provided for in this Section 4.01(b).
(c) One person may hold two or more offices, except that the Secretary may not hold the office of President.
Each officer shall serve at the pleasure of the Board and shall hold office until a successor shall have been appointed or until such officer's death, disqualification, resignation or removal. Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the Board or, except in case of an officer appointed by the Board, by any officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the Board.
4.02
Appointment and Term of Office.
Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice of such officer's resignation to this Corporation. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or, if the time be not specified, upon receipt thereof by this Corporation. Unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
4.03
Resignations.
A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal or disqualification or other event, may be filled in the manner prescribed in these By-Laws for regular appointments to such office.
4.04
Vacancies.
The Chairman of the Board, if such an officer is elected, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board and shall have such other powers and duties as may from time to time be assigned to him or her by the Board or as may be prescribed by the By-Laws.
4.05
Chairman of the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer shall have, subject to the control of the Board, general and active supervision, direction and control of the business of this Corporation and its officers, agents and employees, and shall perform all duties as may from time to time be assigned to him or her by the Board. In the absence of the Chairman of the Board or, if there be none, the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and at all meetings of the Board.
4.06
Chief Executive Officer.
The President of this Corporation shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of president and general manager of a corporation and shall have such other authority and shall perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him or her by the Board or Chief Executive Officer.
4.07
President.
The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of this Corporation or at such other place as the Board may order, a book of minutes of all meetings of the stockholders, the Board and its committees, the time and place, if any, of holding such meetings, whether regular or special, and, if special, how authorized, the notice thereof given, the names of those present at Board and committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at stockholder meetings and the proceedings thereof. The Secretary shall keep, or shall cause to be kept, at the principal executive office or at the office of this Corporation's transfer agent or registrar, a share register, or a duplicate share register, showing the names of stockholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares of stock held by each, the number and date of certificates representing such shares and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation. The Secretary shall give, or shall cause to be given, in conformity with these By-laws, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board and of any committees thereof requiring notice. The Secretary shall keep the seal of this Corporation in safe custody and shall have such other powers and shall perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him or her by the Board.
4.08
Secretary.
The Chief Financial Officer shall keep and maintain, or shall cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct accounts of the properties and business transactions of this Corporation, and shall send or shall cause to be sent to the stockholders of this Corporation such financial statements and reports as are by law or by these By-laws required to be sent to them. The books of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director. The Chief Financial Officer shall render to the Chief Executive Officer and directors, whenever they request it, an account of all transactions as Chief Financial Officer and of the financial condition of this Corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him or her by the Board.
4.09
Chief Financial Officer.
The compensation of those officers appointed by the Board pursuant to Section 4.01(a) or (b) of these By-Laws shall be fixed from time to time by the Board or a committee of the Board delegated with such authority. No officer shall be prevented from receiving compensation by reason of the fact that such officer is also a director of this Corporation or any of its subsidiaries. Nothing contained herein shall preclude any officer from serving this Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
4.10
Compensation.
The Board, except as in these By-laws otherwise provided, may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of this Corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Unless so authorized by the Board or by these By-laws, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind this Corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or in any amount.
5.01
Execution of Contracts
.
All checks, drafts or other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidence of indebtedness, issued in the name of or payable to this Corporation, shall be signed or endorsed by such person or persons and in such manner as, from time to time, shall be determined by resolution of the Board. Each authorized person shall give such bond, if any, as the Board may require.
5.02
Checks, Drafts, Etc
.
All funds of this Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of this Corporation in such banks, trust companies and other depositories as the Board may select, or as may be selected by any officer or officers, assistant or assistants, agent or agents, or attorney or attorneys of this Corporation to whom such power shall have been delegated by the Board. For the purpose of deposit and for the purpose of collection for the account of this Corporation, the President and Vice President or the Treasurer (or any other officer or officers, assistant or assistants, agent or agents, or attorney or attorneys of this Corporation who shall from time to time be determined by the Board) may endorse, assign and deliver checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money which are payable to the order of this Corporation.
5.03
Deposits
.
The Board may from time to time authorize the opening and keeping of general and special bank accounts with such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the Board may select or as may be selected by any officer or officers, assistant or assistants, agent or agents, or attorney or attorneys of this Corporation to whom such power shall have been delegated by the Board. The Board may make such special rules and regulations with respect to such bank accounts, not inconsistent with the provisions of these By-laws, as it may deem expedient.
5.04
General and Special Bank Accounts
.
6.01
Certificates of Stock; Uncertificated Shares.
(a) The shares of stock of this Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to this Corporation. Every holder of stock represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate, in such form as the Board shall prescribe, signed by, or in the name of this Corporation by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board, or the President or Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of this Corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Any of or all of the signatures on the certificates may be by facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, any such certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, such certificate may nevertheless be issued by this Corporation with the same effect as though the person who signed such certificate, or whose facsimile signature shall have been placed thereupon, were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
(b) A record shall be kept of the respective names of the persons, firms or corporations owning the stock represented by such certificates, the number and class of shares represented by such certificates, respectively, and the respective dates thereof, and in case of cancellation, the respective dates of cancellation. Every certificate surrendered to this Corporation for exchange or transfer shall be cancelled, and no new certificate or certificates shall be issued in exchange for any existing certificate until such existing certificate shall have been so cancelled, except in cases provided for in Section 6.04. Uncertificated shares shall be cancelled and issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares shall be made to the person entitled thereto and the transaction shall be recorded upon the books of the Company.
Upon surrender to this Corporation or the transfer agent of this Corporation of a certificate representing shares, duly endorsed or accompanied by appropriate evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, this Corporation shall issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books. The person in whose name shares of stock are registered on the books of this Corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards this Corporation. Whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, such fact shall be so expressed in the entry of transfer if, when the certificate or certificates shall be presented to this Corporation for transfer or uncertificated shares are requested to be transferred, both the transferee and the transferor request this Corporation to do so.
6.02
Transfers of Stock
.
Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws, the Board may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates for shares of the stock of this Corporation. It may appoint, or authorize any officer or officers to appoint, one or more transfer clerks or one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars, and may require all certificates for stock to bear the signature or signatures of any of them.
6.03
Regulations
.
In any case of loss, theft, destruction, or mutilation of any certificate of stock, another may be issued in its place upon proof of such loss, theft, destruction, or mutilation and upon the giving of a bond of indemnity to this Corporation in such form and in such sum as the Board may direct; provided, however, that a new certificate may be issued without requiring any bond when, in the judgment of the Board, it is proper to do so.
6.04
Lost, Stolen, Destroyed, and Mutilated Certificates
.
This Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any person (a "Covered Person") who was or is made or is threatened to be made a party or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person for whom he or she is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of this Corporation or, while a director or officer of this Corporation, is or was serving at the request of this Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees) reasonably incurred by such Covered Person. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, except as otherwise provided in Section 7.06, this Corporation shall be required to indemnify a Covered Person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) commenced by such Covered Person only if the commencement of such proceeding (or part thereof) by the Covered Person was authorized in the specific case by the Board.
7.01
Scope of Indemnification
.
This Corporation shall to the fullest extent not prohibited by applicable law pay the expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by a Covered Person in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, provided, however, that, to the extent required by law, such payment of expenses in advance of the final disposition of the proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the Covered Person to repay all amounts advanced if it should be ultimately determined that the Covered Person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article VII or otherwise.
7.02
Advancement of Expenses
.
The rights conferred on any Covered Person by this Article VII shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such Covered Person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-laws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
7.03
Other Rights and Remedies
.
The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article VII shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
7.04
Continuation of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
.
Upon resolution passed by the Board, this Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of this Corporation or, while a director, officer, employee or agent of this Corporation, is or was serving at the request of this Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not this Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Article.
7.05
Insurance
.
If a claim for indemnification (following the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding) or advancement of expenses under this Article VII is not paid in full within forty-five (45) days after a written claim therefor by the Covered Person has been received by this Corporation, the Covered Person may file suit to recover the unpaid amount of such claim and, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such claim. In any such action, this Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the Covered Person is not entitled to the requested indemnification or advancement of expenses under applicable law.
7.06
Claims.
Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article VII shall not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any Covered Person in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.
7.07
Amendment or Repeal
.
This Article VII shall not limit the right of this Corporation, to the extent and in the manner permitted by law, to indemnify and to advance expenses to persons other than Covered Persons when and as authorized by appropriate corporate action.
7.08
Other Indemnification and Prepayment of Expenses
.
The fiscal year of this Corporation shall be determined by resolution of the Board.
8.01
Fiscal Year.
The Board shall adopt a corporate seal, which shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the name of this Corporation and words and figures showing that this Corporation was incorporated in the State of Delaware and the year of incorporation.
8.02
Seal
.
Except as otherwise provided herein or permitted by applicable law, notices to directors and stockholders shall be in writing and delivered personally or mailed to the directors or stockholders at their addresses appearing on the books of this Corporation. Notice to directors may be given by telecopier, telephone or other means of electronic transmission. Any waiver of notice, given by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting (whether in person or by proxy in the case of a meeting of stockholders) shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at nor the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, directors, or members of a committee of directors need be specified in a waiver of notice.
8.03
Manner of Notice; Waiver of Notices
.
Any records maintained by this Corporation in the regular course of its business, including its stock ledger, books of account, and minute books, may be kept on, or by means of, or be in the form of, any information storage device or method, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible paper form within a reasonable time.
8.04
Form of Records.
These By-laws, or any of them, may be altered, amended or repealed, and new By-Laws may be adopted, (i) by the Board, by vote of a majority of the number of directors then in office as directors, acting at any duly called and held meeting of the Board, or (ii) by the stockholders, provided that notice of such proposed amendment, modification, repeal or adoption is given in the notice of special meeting.
8.05
Amendments
.
The President, any Vice President, or the Secretary of this Corporation are each authorized to vote, represent and exercise on behalf of this Corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of or other equity interests in any other corporation or entity standing in the name of this Corporation. The authority herein granted to said officers to vote or represent on behalf of this Corporation any and all shares or equity interests held by this Corporation in any other corporation or entity may be exercised either by such officers in person or by any person authorized so to do by proxy or power of attorney duly executed by said officers.
8.06
Representation of Other Corporations
.
As amended (Section 3.03) May 10, 2006

20511 Lake Forest Drive Lake Forest, CA 92630-7741
Western Digital Corporation
ID: 95-2647125
Congratulations! Effective <<date>>, you have been granted a(n) <<option type>> to buy <<number>> shares of Western Digital Corporation stock at <<$ option price>> per share. The option was granted under the 2004 Performance Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
1
Vesting:
Shares
1
Vest Type
Full Vesting
Expiration Date
2
Your option is subject to the terms and conditions of this Notice, the attached Standard Terms and Conditions for Stock Options  Executives (the "Standard Terms"), and the Plan. By accepting the option, you are agreeing to the terms of the option as set forth in those documents. You should read the Plan, the Prospectus for the Plan, and the Standard Terms. The Standard Terms and the Plan are each incorporated into (made a part of) this Notice by this reference. You do not have to accept your option. If you do not agree to the terms of your option, you should promptly return this Notice to the Western Digital Corporation Stock Plans Administrator.
A copy of the Plan, the Prospectus for the Plan, and the Standard Terms have been provided to you. If you need another copy of any of these documents, or if you would like to confirm that you have the most recent version, you may obtain another copy in the Company Library on the E*TRADE web site. The documents are also available on the Western Digital Intranet site under Legal.
Western Digital Corporation 20511 Lake Forest Drive
Lake Forest, California 92630 Telephone 949 672-7000
The option (the "Option") referred to in the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option and Option Agreement (the "Notice") was issued under Western Digital Corporation's (the "Corporation's") Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The Option is subject to the terms and provisions of the Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions for Stock Options - Executives (these "Standard Terms"), and the Plan. To the extent any information in the Notice, the prospectus for the Plan, or other information provided by the Corporation conflicts with the Plan and/or these Standard Terms, the Plan or these Standard Terms, as applicable, shall control. To the extent any terms and provisions in these Standard Terms conflict with the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Plan shall control. The holder of the Option is referred to herein as the "Participant." Capitalized terms not defined herein have the meanings set forth in the Plan.
Unless otherwise expressly provided in other sections of these Standard Terms, provisions of the Plan that confer discretionary authority on the Board or the Administrator do not and shall not be deemed to create any rights in the Participant unless such rights are expressly set forth herein or are otherwise in the sole discretion of the Board or the Administrator so conferred by appropriate action of the Board or the Administrator under the Plan the grant date of the Option.
after
The Notice and these Standard Terms, together, constitute the Option Agreement with respect to the Option pursuant to Section 5.3 of the Plan.
The Notice indicates whether the Option is intended to qualify as an incentive stock option (an "ISO") under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), or is a nonqualified stock option (an option that is not an ISO). ISOs are subject to additional requirements under the Code as generally described in Section 5.1 of the Plan. If the aggregate fair market value of the shares with respect to which ISOs (whether granted under the Option or otherwise) first become exercisable by the Participant in any calendar year exceeds $100,000, as measured on the applicable option grant dates and as determined in accordance with Code Section 422 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, the limitations of Section 5.1.2 of the Plan shall apply and to such extent the Option will be rendered a nonqualified stock option.
4. Vesting
The Option shall vest and become exercisable in percentage installments of the aggregate number of shares subject to the Option as set forth in the Notice. The first vesting installment of the Option shall be a fixed installment covering the number of shares, and vesting on the fixed vesting date, set forth in the first line of the Notice under "Vesting." In each case, the Option is subject to earlier termination in accordance with Section 5.
Notwithstanding the foregoing but subject to Sections 7.5, 7.6 and 7.7 of the Plan, to the extent that the Option is outstanding and otherwise unvested immediately prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control Event, the Option shall vest and become exercisable upon the occurrence of the Change in Control Event. This acceleration provision shall not in any way limit the Corporation's ability to terminate the Option in connection with a Change in Control Event as provided in Section 7.4 of the Plan; provided that, in any such circumstances, the Optionee is given reasonable advance notice of the impending termination and a reasonable opportunity to exercise the outstanding portion of the Option in accordance with its terms (subject to Sections 7.5, 7.6 and 7.7 of the Plan, after giving effect to the acceleration of vesting) before the termination of the Option in such circumstances (except that in no case shall more than ten days' notice of accelerated vesting and the impending termination be required and any acceleration may be made contingent upon the actual occurrence of the event).
The Option may be exercised only to the extent it is vested and exercisable. To the extent that the Option is vested and exercisable, the Participant has the right to exercise the Option (to the extent not previously exercised), and such right shall continue, until the expiration or earlier termination of the Option as provided in Section 5. Fractional share interests shall be disregarded, but may be cumulated.
The vesting schedule requires continued employment or service through each applicable vesting date as a condition to the vesting of the applicable installment of the Option and the rights and benefits under this Option Agreement. Employment or service for only a portion of the vesting period, even if a substantial portion, will not entitle the Participant to any proportionate vesting or avoid or mitigate a termination of rights and benefits upon or following a termination of employment or services as provided in Section 6 below or under the Plan.
The Option shall expire and the Participant shall have no further rights with respect thereto upon the earliest to occur of (a) the termination of the Option as provided in Section 6 below, (b) the termination of the Option as provided in Section 7.4 of the Plan, or (c) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice. The Option may not be exercised at any time after a termination or expiration of the Option.
The Option shall be exercisable by the Participant (or his or her permitted successor in interest) following the Participant's termination of employment only to the extent provided below in this Section 6. Except as provided in Section 6(f) below, the last day that the Participant is employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary prior to a period of non-employment by any such entity is referred to as the Participant's "Severance Date." In each case described below, the Option shall be subject to earlier termination as contemplated by Section 5.
(a) . In the event the Participant ceases to be an employee of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries for any reason (other than a termination of employment by the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries for Cause (as defined below), due to the Participant's death or Retirement (as defined below), or at a time when the Participant is Totally Disabled (as defined below)), the Option shall terminate on the Participant's Severance Date to the extent that it is not vested and exercisable on that date and, to the extent that the Option is exercisable by the Participant on the Participant's Severance Date, it may be exercised by the Participant at any time within three months following the Participant's Severance Date. The Option, to the extent exercisable for the three-month period following the Participant's Severance Date and not exercised during such period, shall terminate at the close of business on the last day of the three-month period.
Termination of Employment Generally
(b) . In the event that the Participant ceases to be an employee of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries at a time when the Participant is Totally Disabled and is not eligible to Retire, the Option shall terminate on the Participant's Severance Date to the extent that it is not vested and exercisable on that date. In such circumstances, or in the event that the Participant incurs such a Total Disability within not more than three months of the Participant's Severance Date if the termination of the Participant's employment was for any reason other than a termination of employment by the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries for Cause, the Option may, to the extent the Option was exercisable by the Participant on the Participant's Severance Date, be exercised by the Participant (or, if the Participant is then incapacitated, by the Participant's personal representatives, heirs, or legatees) at any time during the one-year period following the Participant's Severance Date. The Option, to the extent exercisable for the one-year period following the Participant's Severance Date and not exercised during such period, shall terminate at the close of business on the last day of the one-year period. For purposes of the Option, "Total Disability" (which term shall include "Totally Disabled") means a "permanent and total disability" within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
Total Disability
(c) . If the Participant dies while he or she is an employee of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, the Option (to the extent outstanding and not previously vested and exercisable) shall vest and become exercisable on the Participant's Severance Date and shall continue to be exercisable by the Participant's personal representatives, heirs or legatees, as applicable, at any time during the three-year period following the Participant's Severance Date. The Option, to the extent exercisable for the three-year period following the Participant's Severance Date and not exercised during such period, shall terminate at the close of business on the last day of the three-year period.
Death
(d) . If the Participant Retires from the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries, the Option (to the extent outstanding and not previously vested and exercisable) shall vest and become exercisable on the Participant's Severance Date and shall continue to be exercisable by the Participant (or if the Participant is then deceased, by the Participant's personal representatives, heirs or legatees, as applicable) at any time during the three-year period following the Participant's Severance Date. The Option, to the extent exercisable for the three-year period following the Participant's Severance Date and not exercised during such period, shall terminate at the close of business on the last day of the three-year period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event a Retired Participant provides services to a competitor of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries as an employee, consultant, director, officer, representative, independent contractor or otherwise, or otherwise competes with the business of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries (in each case as determined by the Administrator its sole discretion), the Option, to the extent not previously exercised, shall immediately terminate. In addition, in such event the Corporation shall have the right to recover any profits realized by such Retired Participant as a result of any exercise of the Option during the six-month period prior to the date such Retired Participant commenced providing such services to a competitor. For this purpose, the Participant shall be deemed to have "Retired" (which term shall include "Retirement," "Retire" and "Retires") if the Participant retires from employment with the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries for any reason other than Cause after satisfying all of the following at the time of such retirement: (i) the Participant is at least 65 years of age, (ii) the Participant's age plus total years of continuous service with the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries (as determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion) totals at least 75, and (iii) the Participant has five (5) or more years of continuous service with the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries (as determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion) ending on the date of such retirement. For purposes of calculating "age plus total years of continuous service" under clause (ii) above, fractional years shall be disregarded but may be cumulated (so that, by way of example only, a Participant who is age 65 and 6 months with 9 years and 6 months of continuous service would satisfy the requirements of clause (ii), while a Participant who is age 65 and 6 months with 9 years and 5 months of continuous service would not satisfy the requirements of clause (ii)). For purposes of calculating the Participant's "years of continuous service" under clause (ii) or clause (iii) above, in no event shall the Participant accrue more than one year of service with respect to any period of twelve consecutive months (that is, concurrent employment by both the Corporation and one or more of its Subsidiaries, or by multiple Subsidiaries, for a month shall not be counted as more than one month of service).
Retirement
(e) . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6, if the Participant's employment with the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries is terminated by the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries for Cause, the Option (whether or not all or any portion of such Option is then vested and exercisable) shall immediately terminate on the Participant's Severance Date.
Termination for Cause
For purposes of this Section 6 and as to any termination of employment or services that occurs prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control Event, the term "Cause" shall mean the occurrence or existence of any of the following with respect to the Participant, as determined by the Administrator or its delegate or delegates in its or their sole discretion:
(i) the Participant's conviction by, or entry of a plea of guilty or in, a court of competent and final jurisdiction for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony punishable by imprisonment in the jurisdiction involved;
nolo contendre
(ii) whether prior or subsequent to the date hereof, the Participant's willful engaging in dishonest or fraudulent actions or omissions;
(iii) the Participant's failure or refusal to perform his or her duties as reasonably required by his or her employer;
(iv) negligence, insubordination, violation by the Participant of any duty (loyalty or otherwise) owed to the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates, or any other misconduct on the part of the Participant;
(v) the repeated non-prescription use of any controlled substance, or the repeated use of alcohol or any other non-controlled substance which in the Administrator's (or its delegate's or delegates') reasonable determination interferes with the Participant's service as an officer or employee of the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates;
(vi) sexual harassment by the Participant that has been reasonably substantiated and investigated;
(vii) involvement in activities representing conflicts of interest with the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates;
(viii) improper disclosure of confidential information;
(ix) conduct endangering, or likely to endanger, the health or safety of another employee;
(x) falsifying or misrepresenting information on the records of the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates;
(xi) the Participant's physical destruction or theft of substantial property or assets of the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates;
(xii) breach of any policy of, or agreement with, the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates applicable to the Participant or to which the Participant is otherwise bound.
For purposes of this Section 6 and as to any termination of employment or services that occurs after the occurrence of a Change in Control Event, the term "Cause" shall mean the occurrence or existence of any of the following with respect to the Participant, as determined by a majority of the disinterested directors of the Board:
(A) the Participant's conviction by, or entry of a plea of guilty or in, a court of competent and final jurisdiction for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony punishable by imprisonment in the jurisdiction involved;
nolo contendre
(B) whether prior or subsequent to the date hereof, the Participant's willful engaging in dishonest or fraudulent actions or omissions which results directly or indirectly in any demonstrable material financial or economic harm to the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates;
(C) the Participant's failure or refusal to perform his or her duties as reasonably required by his or her employer, provided that the Participant shall have first received written notice from the employer stating with specificity the nature of such failure or refusal and affording the Participant at least five (5) days to correct the act or omission complained of;
(D) gross negligence, insubordination, material violation by the Participant of any duty of loyalty to the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates, or any other material misconduct on the part of the Participant, provided that the Participant shall have first received written notice from the Corporation stating with specificity the nature of such action or violation and affording the Participant at least five (5) days to correct such action or violation;
(E) the repeated non-prescription use of any controlled substance, or the repeated use of alcohol or any other non-controlled substance which in the Board's reasonable determination interferes with the Participant's service as an officer or employee of the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates;
(F) sexual harassment by the Participant that has been reasonably substantiated and investigated;
(G) involvement in activities representing conflicts of interest with the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates;
(H) improper disclosure of confidential information;
(I) conduct endangering, or likely to endanger, the health or safety of another employee;
(J) falsifying or misrepresenting information on the records of the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates; or
(K) the Participant's physical destruction or theft of substantial property or assets of the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates.
(f) . If the Participant's employment with the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries terminates (regardless of the reason) but, immediately thereafter, the Participant continues to render services to the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries as an employee, director or consultant, such Participant's Severance Date for purposes of the Option shall not be the date such Participant's employment terminates, but instead shall be the last day that the Participant either is employed by or actually renders services to the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries. As provided in Section 6.1 of the Plan, the Administrator shall be the sole judge for purposes of the Option of whether the Participant continues to render services the Corporation or its Subsidiaries and the date, if any, upon which such services shall be deemed to have terminated.
Continuation of Services
(g) . Notwithstanding any post-termination exercise period provided for herein or in the Plan, the Option will qualify as an ISO only if it is exercised within the applicable exercise periods for ISOs under, and meets all of the other requirements of, the Code. If the Option is not exercised within the applicable exercise periods for ISOs or does not meet such other requirements, the Option will be rendered a nonqualified stock option.
Exercise Period for ISOs
The Option shall be exercisable by the delivery to the Secretary of the Corporation (or such other person as the Administrator may require pursuant to such administrative exercise procedures as the Administrator may implement from time to time) of:
The Administrator also may, but is not required to, authorize a non-cash payment alternative by notice and third party payment in such manner as may be authorized by the Administrator.
The Option will qualify as an ISO only if it meets all of the applicable requirements of the Code.
The Option and any other rights of the Participant under this Option Agreement or the Plan are nontransferable and exercisable only by the Participant, except as set forth in Section 5.7 of the Plan. For purposes of clarity, the Administrator has not authorized any transfer exceptions as contemplated by Section 5.7.2 of the Plan.
Nothing contained in this Option Agreement or the Plan constitutes a continued employment or service commitment by the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, affects the Participant's status, if he or she is an employee, as an employee at will who is subject to termination without cause, confers upon the Participant any right to remain employed by or in service to the Corporation or any Subsidiary, interferes in any way with the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary at any time to terminate such employment or service, or affects the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to increase or decrease the Participant's other compensation.
Neither the Participant nor any beneficiary or other person claiming under or through the Participant shall have any right, title, interest or privilege in or to any shares of Common Stock subject to the Option except as to such shares, if any, as shall have been actually issued to such person and recorded in such person's name following the exercise of the Option or any portion thereof.
Any notice to be given under the terms of this Option Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal office to the attention of the Secretary, and to the Participant at the address last reflected on the Corporation's payroll records, or at such other address as either party may hereafter designate in writing to the other. Any such notice shall be delivered in person or shall be enclosed in a properly sealed envelope addressed as aforesaid, registered or certified, and deposited (postage and registry or certification fee prepaid) in a post office or branch post office regularly maintained by the United States Government. Any such notice shall be given only when received, but if the Participant is no longer employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, shall be deemed to have been duly given five business days after the date mailed in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 11.
Any controversy arising out of or relating to this Option Agreement (including these Standard Terms) and/or the Plan, their enforcement or interpretation, or because of an alleged breach, default, or misrepresentation in connection with any of their provisions, or any other controversy or claim arising out of or related to the Option or the Participant's employment, including, but not limited to, any state or federal statutory claims, shall be submitted to arbitration in Orange County, California, before a sole arbitrator selected from Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services, Inc., Orange, California, or its successor ("JAMS"), or if JAMS is no longer able to supply the arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be selected from the American Arbitration Association, and shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of California Code of Civil Procedure  1280 et seq. as the exclusive forum for the resolution of such dispute; provided, however, that provisional injunctive relief may, but need not, be sought by either party to this Option Agreement in a court of law while arbitration proceedings are pending, and any provisional injunctive relief granted by such court shall remain effective until the matter is finally determined by the arbitrator. Final resolution of any dispute through arbitration may include any remedy or relief which the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any and all remedies provided by applicable state or federal statutes. At the conclusion of the arbitration, the arbitrator shall issue a written decision that sets forth the essential findings and conclusions upon which the arbitrator's award or decision is based. Any award or relief granted by the arbitrator hereunder shall be final and binding on the parties hereto and may be enforced by any court of competent jurisdiction. The parties acknowledge and agree that they are hereby waiving any rights to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim brought by either of the parties against the other in connection with any matter whatsoever arising out of or in any way connected with any of the matters referenced in the first sentence above. The parties agree that Corporation shall be responsible for payment of the forum costs of any arbitration hereunder, including the arbitrator's fee. The parties further agree that in any proceeding with respect to such matters, each party shall bear its own attorney's fees and costs (other than forum costs associated with the arbitration) incurred by it or him or her in connection with the resolution of the dispute. By accepting the Option, the Participant consents to all of the terms and conditions of this Option Agreement (including, without limitation, this Section 12).
This Option Agreement, including these Standard Terms, shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware (without regard to conflict of law principles thereunder) and applicable federal law.
14. Severability
If the arbitrator selected in accordance with Section 12 or a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any portion of this Option Agreement (including these Standard Terms) or the Plan is in violation of any statute or public policy, then only the portions of this Option Agreement or the Plan, as applicable, which are found to violate such statute or public policy shall be stricken, and all portions of this Option Agreement and the Plan which are not found to violate any statute or public policy shall continue in full force and effect. Furthermore, it is the parties' intent that any order striking any portion of this Option Agreement and/or the Plan should modify the stricken terms as narrowly as possible to give as much effect as possible to the intentions of the parties hereunder.
15. Entire Agreement
This Option Agreement (including these Standard Terms) and the Plan together constitute the entire agreement and supersede all prior understandings and agreements, written or oral, of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Plan and this Option Agreement may be amended pursuant to Section 8.6 of the Plan. Such amendment must be in writing and signed by the Corporation. The Corporation may, however, unilaterally waive any provision hereof in writing to the extent such waiver does not adversely affect the interests of the Participant hereunder, but no such waiver shall operate as or be construed to be a subsequent waiver of the same provision or a waiver of any other provision hereof.
16. Section Headings
The section headings of this Option Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to alter or affect any provision hereof.

20511 Lake Forest Drive Lake Forest, CA 92630-7741
Western Digital Corporation
ID: 95-2647125
Congratulations! Effective <<date>>, you have been granted a(n) <<option type>> to buy <<number>> shares of Western Digital Corporation stock at <<$ option price>> per share. The option was granted under the 2004 Performance Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
1
Vesting:
Shares
1
Vest Type
Full Vesting
Expiration Date
2
Your option is subject to the terms and conditions of this Notice, the attached Standard Terms and Conditions for Stock Options  Non-Executives (the "Standard Terms"), and the Plan. By accepting the option, you are agreeing to the terms of the option as set forth in those documents. You should read the Plan, the Prospectus for the Plan, and the Standard Terms. The Standard Terms and the Plan are each incorporated into (made a part of) this Notice by this reference. You do not have to accept your option. If you do not agree to the terms of your option, you should promptly return this Notice to the Western Digital Corporation Stock Plans Administrator.
A copy of the Plan, the Prospectus for the Plan, and the Standard Terms have been provided to you. If you need another copy of any of these documents, or if you would like to confirm that you have the most recent version, you may obtain another copy in the Company Library on the E*TRADE web site. The documents are also available on the Western Digital Intranet site under Legal.
Western Digital Corporation 20511 Lake Forest Drive
Lake Forest, California 92630 Telephone 949 672-7000
The option (the "Option") referred to in the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option and Option Agreement (the "Notice") was issued under Western Digital Corporation's (the "Corporation's") Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The Option is subject to the terms and provisions of the Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions for Stock Options (these "Standard Terms"), and the Plan. To the extent any information in the Notice, the prospectus for the Plan, or other information provided by the Corporation conflicts with the Plan and/or these Standard Terms, the Plan or these Standard Terms, as applicable, shall control. To the extent any terms and provisions in these Standard Terms conflict with the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Plan shall control. The holder of the Option is referred to herein as the "Participant." Capitalized terms not defined herein have the meanings set forth in the Plan.
Unless otherwise expressly provided in other sections of these Standard Terms, provisions of the Plan that confer discretionary authority on the Board or the Administrator do not and shall not be deemed to create any rights in the Participant unless such rights are expressly set forth herein or are otherwise in the sole discretion of the Board or the Administrator so conferred by appropriate action of the Board or the Administrator under the Plan the grant date of the Option.
after
The Notice and these Standard Terms, together, constitute the Option Agreement with respect to the Option pursuant to Section 5.3 of the Plan.
The Notice indicates whether the Option is intended to qualify as an incentive stock option (an "ISO") under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), or is a nonqualified stock option (an option that is not an ISO). ISOs are subject to additional requirements under the Code as generally described in Section 5.1 of the Plan. If the aggregate fair market value of the shares with respect to which ISOs (whether granted under the Option or otherwise) first become exercisable by the Participant in any calendar year exceeds $100,000, as measured on the applicable option grant dates and as determined in accordance with Code Section 422 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, the limitations of Section 5.1.2 of the Plan shall apply and to such extent the Option will be rendered a nonqualified stock option.
4. Vesting
The Option shall vest and become exercisable in percentage installments of the aggregate number of shares subject to the Option as set forth in the Notice. The first vesting installment of the Option shall be a fixed installment covering the number of shares, and vesting on the fixed vesting date, set forth in the first line of the Notice under "Vesting." In each case, the Option is subject to earlier termination in accordance with Section 5.
The Option may be exercised only to the extent it is vested and exercisable. To the extent that the Option is vested and exercisable, the Participant has the right to exercise the Option (to the extent not previously exercised), and such right shall continue, until the expiration or earlier termination of the Option as provided in Section 5. Fractional share interests shall be disregarded, but may be cumulated.
The vesting schedule requires continued employment or service through each applicable vesting date as a condition to the vesting of the applicable installment of the Option and the rights and benefits under this Option Agreement. Employment or service for only a portion of the vesting period, even if a substantial portion, will not entitle the Participant to any proportionate vesting or avoid or mitigate a termination of rights and benefits upon or following a termination of employment or services as provided in Section 6 below or under the Plan.
The Option shall expire and the Participant shall have no further rights with respect thereto upon the earliest to occur of (a) the termination of the Option as provided in Section 6 below, (b) the termination of the Option as provided in Section 7.4 of the Plan, or (c) the Expiration Date set forth in the Notice. The Option may not be exercised at any time after a termination or expiration of the Option.
The Option shall be exercisable by the Participant (or his or her permitted successor in interest) following the Participant's termination of employment only to the extent provided below in this Section 6. Except as provided in Section 6(f) below, the last day that the Participant is employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary prior to a period of non-employment by any such entity is referred to as the Participant's "Severance Date." In each case described below, the Option shall be subject to earlier termination as contemplated by Section 5.
(a) . In the event the Participant ceases to be an employee of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries for any reason (other than a termination of employment by the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries for Cause (as defined below), due to the Participant's death or Retirement (as defined below), or at a time when the Participant is Totally Disabled (as defined below)), the Option shall terminate on the Participant's Severance Date to the extent that it is not vested and exercisable on that date and, to the extent that the Option is exercisable by the Participant on the Participant's Severance Date, it may be exercised by the Participant at any time within three months following the Participant's Severance Date. The Option, to the extent exercisable for the three-month period following the Participant's Severance Date and not exercised during such period, shall terminate at the close of business on the last day of the three-month period.
Termination of Employment Generally
(b) . In the event that the Participant ceases to be an employee of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries at a time when the Participant is Totally Disabled and is not eligible to Retire, the Option shall terminate on the Participant's Severance Date to the extent that it is not vested and exercisable on that date. In such circumstances, or in the event that the Participant incurs such a Total Disability within not more than three months of the Participant's Severance Date if the termination of the Participant's employment was for any reason other than a termination of employment by the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries for Cause, the Option may, to the extent the Option was exercisable by the Participant on the Participant's Severance Date, be exercised by the Participant (or, if the Participant is then incapacitated, by the Participant's personal representatives, heirs, or legatees) at any time during the one-year period following the Participant's Severance Date. The Option, to the extent exercisable for the one-year period following the Participant's Severance Date and not exercised during such period, shall terminate at the close of business on the last day of the one-year period. For purposes of the Option, "Total Disability" (which term shall include "Totally Disabled") means a "permanent and total disability" within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
Total Disability
(c) . If the Participant dies while he or she is an employee of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, the Option (to the extent outstanding and not previously vested and exercisable) shall vest and become exercisable on the Participant's Severance Date and shall continue to be exercisable by the Participant's personal representatives, heirs or legatees, as applicable, at any time during the three-year period following the Participant's Severance Date. The Option, to the extent exercisable for the three-year period following the Participant's Severance Date and not exercised during such period, shall terminate at the close of business on the last day of the three-year period.
Death
(d) . If the Participant Retires from the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries, the Option (to the extent outstanding and not previously vested and exercisable) shall vest and become exercisable on the Participant's Severance Date and shall continue to be exercisable by the Participant (or if the Participant is then deceased, by the Participant's personal representatives, heirs or legatees, as applicable) at any time during the three-year period following the Participant's Severance Date. The Option, to the extent exercisable for the three-year period following the Participant's Severance Date and not exercised during such period, shall terminate at the close of business on the last day of the three-year period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event a Retired Participant provides services to a competitor of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries as an employee, consultant, director, officer, representative, independent contractor or otherwise, or otherwise competes with the business of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries (in each case as determined by the Administrator its sole discretion), the Option, to the extent not previously exercised, shall immediately terminate. In addition, in such event the Corporation shall have the right to recover any profits realized by such Retired Participant as a result of any exercise of the Option during the six-month period prior to the date such Retired Participant commenced providing such services to a competitor. For this purpose, the Participant shall be deemed to have "Retired" (which term shall include "Retirement," "Retire" and "Retires") if the Participant retires from employment with the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries for any reason other than Cause after satisfying all of the following at the time of such retirement: (i) the Participant is at least 65 years of age, (ii) the Participant's age plus total years of continuous service with the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries (as determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion) totals at least 75, and (iii) the Participant has five (5) or more years of continuous service with the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries (as determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion) ending on the date of such retirement. For purposes of calculating "age plus total years of continuous service" under clause (ii) above, fractional years shall be disregarded but may be cumulated (so that, by way of example only, a Participant who is age 65 and 6 months with 9 years and 6 months of continuous service would satisfy the requirements of clause (ii), while a Participant who is age 65 and 6 months with 9 years and 5 months of continuous service would not satisfy the requirements of clause (ii)). For purposes of calculating the Participant's "years of continuous service" under clause (ii) or clause (iii) above, in no event shall the Participant accrue more than one year of service with respect to any period of twelve consecutive months (that is, concurrent employment by both the Corporation and one or more of its Subsidiaries, or by multiple Subsidiaries, for a month shall not be counted as more than one month of service).
Retirement
(e) . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6, if the Participant's employment with the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries is terminated by the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries for Cause, the Option (whether or not all or any portion of such Option is then vested and exercisable) shall immediately terminate on the Participant's Severance Date. For these purposes, the term "Cause" shall mean the occurrence or existence of any of the following with respect to the Participant, as determined by the Administrator or its delegate or delegates in its or their sole discretion:
Termination for Cause
(i) the Participant's conviction by, or entry of a plea of guilty or in, a court of competent and final jurisdiction for any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony punishable by imprisonment in the jurisdiction involved;
nolo contendre
(ii) whether prior or subsequent to the date hereof, the Participant's willful engaging in dishonest or fraudulent actions or omissions;
(iii) the Participant's failure or refusal to perform his or her duties as reasonably required by his or her employer;
(iv) negligence, insubordination, violation by the Participant of any duty (loyalty or otherwise) owed to the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates, or any other misconduct on the part of the Participant;
(v) the repeated non-prescription use of any controlled substance, or the repeated use of alcohol or any other non-controlled substance which in the Administrator's (or its delegate's or delegates') reasonable determination interferes with the Participant's service as an officer or employee of the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates;
(vi) sexual harassment by the Participant that has been reasonably substantiated and investigated;
(vii) involvement in activities representing conflicts of interest with the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates;
(viii) improper disclosure of confidential information;
(ix) conduct endangering, or likely to endanger, the health or safety of another employee;
(x) falsifying or misrepresenting information on the records of the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates;
(xi) the Participant's physical destruction or theft of substantial property or assets of the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates;
(xii) breach of any policy of, or agreement with, the Corporation, one or more of its Subsidiaries, or any of their respective affiliates applicable to the Participant or to which the Participant is otherwise bound.
(f) . If the Participant's employment with the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries terminates (regardless of the reason) but, immediately thereafter, the Participant continues to render services to the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries as an employee, director or consultant, such Participant's Severance Date for purposes of the Option shall not be the date such Participant's employment terminates, but instead shall be the last day that the Participant either is employed by or actually renders services to the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries. As provided in Section 6.1 of the Plan, the Administrator shall be the sole judge for purposes of the Option of whether the Participant continues to render services the Corporation or its Subsidiaries and the date, if any, upon which such services shall be deemed to have terminated.
Continuation of Services
(g) . Notwithstanding any post-termination exercise period provided for herein or in the Plan, the Option will qualify as an ISO only if it is exercised within the applicable exercise periods for ISOs under, and meets all of the other requirements of, the Code. If the Option is not exercised within the applicable exercise periods for ISOs or does not meet such other requirements, the Option will be rendered a nonqualified stock option.
Exercise Period for ISOs
The Option shall be exercisable by the delivery to the Secretary of the Corporation (or such other person as the Administrator may require pursuant to such administrative exercise procedures as the Administrator may implement from time to time) of:
The Administrator also may, but is not required to, authorize a non-cash payment alternative by notice and third party payment in such manner as may be authorized by the Administrator.
The Option will qualify as an ISO only if it meets all of the applicable requirements of the Code.
The Option and any other rights of the Participant under this Option Agreement or the Plan are nontransferable and exercisable only by the Participant, except as set forth in Section 5.7 of the Plan. For purposes of clarity, the Administrator has not authorized any transfer exceptions as contemplated by Section 5.7.2 of the Plan.
Nothing contained in this Option Agreement or the Plan constitutes a continued employment or service commitment by the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, affects the Participant's status, if he or she is an employee, as an employee at will who is subject to termination without cause, confers upon the Participant any right to remain employed by or in service to the Corporation or any Subsidiary, interferes in any way with the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary at any time to terminate such employment or service, or affects the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to increase or decrease the Participant's other compensation.
Neither the Participant nor any beneficiary or other person claiming under or through the Participant shall have any right, title, interest or privilege in or to any shares of Common Stock subject to the Option except as to such shares, if any, as shall have been actually issued to such person and recorded in such person's name following the exercise of the Option or any portion thereof.
Any notice to be given under the terms of this Option Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal office to the attention of the Secretary, and to the Participant at the address last reflected on the Corporation's payroll records, or at such other address as either party may hereafter designate in writing to the other. Any such notice shall be delivered in person or shall be enclosed in a properly sealed envelope addressed as aforesaid, registered or certified, and deposited (postage and registry or certification fee prepaid) in a post office or branch post office regularly maintained by the United States Government. Any such notice shall be given only when received, but if the Participant is no longer employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, shall be deemed to have been duly given five business days after the date mailed in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 11.
Any controversy arising out of or relating to this Option Agreement (including these Standard Terms) and/or the Plan, their enforcement or interpretation, or because of an alleged breach, default, or misrepresentation in connection with any of their provisions, or any other controversy or claim arising out of or related to the Option or the Participant's employment, including, but not limited to, any state or federal statutory claims, shall be submitted to arbitration in Orange County, California, before a sole arbitrator selected from Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services, Inc., Orange, California, or its successor ("JAMS"), or if JAMS is no longer able to supply the arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be selected from the American Arbitration Association, and shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of California Code of Civil Procedure  1280 et seq. as the exclusive forum for the resolution of such dispute; provided, however, that provisional injunctive relief may, but need not, be sought by either party to this Option Agreement in a court of law while arbitration proceedings are pending, and any provisional injunctive relief granted by such court shall remain effective until the matter is finally determined by the arbitrator. Final resolution of any dispute through arbitration may include any remedy or relief which the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any and all remedies provided by applicable state or federal statutes. At the conclusion of the arbitration, the arbitrator shall issue a written decision that sets forth the essential findings and conclusions upon which the arbitrator's award or decision is based. Any award or relief granted by the arbitrator hereunder shall be final and binding on the parties hereto and may be enforced by any court of competent jurisdiction. The parties acknowledge and agree that they are hereby waiving any rights to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim brought by either of the parties against the other in connection with any matter whatsoever arising out of or in any way connected with any of the matters referenced in the first sentence above. The parties agree that Corporation shall be responsible for payment of the forum costs of any arbitration hereunder, including the arbitrator's fee. The parties further agree that in any proceeding with respect to such matters, each party shall bear its own attorney's fees and costs (other than forum costs associated with the arbitration) incurred by it or him or her in connection with the resolution of the dispute. By accepting the Option, the Participant consents to all of the terms and conditions of this Option Agreement (including, without limitation, this Section 12).
This Option Agreement, including these Standard Terms, shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware (without regard to conflict of law principles thereunder) and applicable federal law.
14. Severability
If the arbitrator selected in accordance with Section 12 or a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any portion of this Option Agreement (including these Standard Terms) or the Plan is in violation of any statute or public policy, then only the portions of this Option Agreement or the Plan, as applicable, which are found to violate such statute or public policy shall be stricken, and all portions of this Option Agreement and the Plan which are not found to violate any statute or public policy shall continue in full force and effect. Furthermore, it is the parties' intent that any order striking any portion of this Option Agreement and/or the Plan should modify the stricken terms as narrowly as possible to give as much effect as possible to the intentions of the parties hereunder.
This Option Agreement (including these Standard Terms) and the Plan together constitute the entire agreement and supersede all prior understandings and agreements, written or oral, of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Plan and this Option Agreement may be amended pursuant to Section 8.6 of the Plan. Such amendment must be in writing and signed by the Corporation. The Corporation may, however, unilaterally waive any provision hereof in writing to the extent such waiver does not adversely affect the interests of the Participant hereunder, but no such waiver shall operate as or be construed to be a subsequent waiver of the same provision or a waiver of any other provision hereof.
16. Section Headings
The section headings of this Option Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to alter or affect any provision hereof.

Company contacts: Bob Blair Investor Relations 949.672.7834 robert.blair@wdc.com
Steve Shattuck Public Relations 949.672.7817 steve.shattuck@wdc.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
:
LAKE FOREST, Calif.  May 16, 2006  Western Digital Corp. (NYSE: WDC) today announced that its board of directors has amended the company's bylaws to adopt a majority voting standard for the election of directors. Under the new majority voting standard, which replaces plurality voting for uncontested elections, a director nominee will be elected to the company's board only if the director receives a majority of the total votes cast with respect to the director. In contested elections, directors will continue to be elected by a plurality vote.
The board of directors has also adopted a director resignation policy in the company's bylaws to address the "holdover rule" that applies in the state of Delaware, where the company is incorporated. Under Delaware law, an incumbent director who is not re-elected to the board will continue to serve as a holdover director until the director's successor is elected and qualified or until the director's earlier resignation or removal. The director resignation policy adopted by the board of directors will require an incumbent director who does not receive a majority of the votes cast to tender his or her resignation to the board. If the resignation is conditioned on board acceptance, the governance committee will evaluate the resignation and will make a recommendation to the board on whether to accept or reject the resignation or whether other action should be taken. The board will publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within 90 days of the certification of election results.
Additional information regarding the company's corporate governance is available at http://www.wdc.com/en/company/governance.
About WD
WD, one of the storage industry's pioneers and long-time leaders, provides products and services for people and organizations that collect, manage and use digital information. The company produces reliable, high-performance hard drives that keep users' data close-at-hand and secure from loss.
WD was founded in 1970. The company's storage products are marketed to leading systems manufacturers and selected resellers under the Western Digital and WD brand names. Visit the Investor section of the company's Web site (www.westerndigital.com) to access a variety of financial and investor information.
Western Digital is a registered trademark, and WD and the Western Digital logo are trademarks of Western Digital Technologies, Inc. 


