FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20070228085506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
At investment community events on February 28, 2007 and March 1, 2007, executives of Western Digital Corporation (the "Company") will provide investors with an update regarding current conditions in the hard drive industry. Specifically, the Company expects to communicate the following:  As expected, overall demand in the hard drive market in the March quarter is reflecting typical seasonality compared with the stronger December quarter.  Demand in the faster growth hard drive markets and the Company's positioning in those markets are helping to partially offset the March quarter seasonal patterns. Those markets include branded products, consumer electronics, notebook and segments of the enterprise market.  Price declines are within expectations for the quarter.  Weeks of inventory in the distribution channel for the industry and for the Company are within the long-stated manageable range of 4 to 6 weeks.  The month of March wi ll, as is typical, be a key factor in determining the quarter for the industry and for the Company.
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements, including statements concerning conditions in the hard drive industry, the Company's expectations regarding pricing, inventory levels, and demand for hard drives and the effects of seasonality in the March quarter. These forward-looking statements are based on current management expectations and are subject to important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, including: pricing trends and fluctuations in average selling prices (ASPs); actions by competitors; changes in the availability and cost of specialized product components, including media; supply and demand conditions in the hard drive industry; changes in product and customer mix; uncertainties related to the development and introduction of products based on new technologies and successful expansion into new hard drive markets; difficulties in reducing yield losses from complex manufacturing processes and new technologies; business conditions and growth in the notebook, consumer electronics, enterprise, branded products and desktop markets; and other risks and uncertainties listed in the Company's recent Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on February 7, 2007, to which your attention is directed. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


