FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20081023163600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 240.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 23, 2008, Western Digital Corporation ("Western Digital") announced financial results for the first fiscal quarter ended September 26, 2008. A copy of the press release making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of Western Digital's Investor Information Summary for the fiscal quarter ended September 26, 2008 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Company contacts: Bob Blair Investor Relations 949.672.7834 robert.blair@wdc.com
Steve Shattuck Public Relations 949.672.7817 steve.shattuck@wdc.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
:
LAKE FOREST, Calif.  Oct. 23, 2008  Western Digital Corp. (NYSE: WDC) today reported revenue of $2.1 billion, on shipments of approximately 39.4 million units, with net income of $211 million, or $0.93 per share, for its fiscal first quarter ending September 26, 2008. The September quarter results represented strong year-over-year performance, including growth in revenue and unit shipments of 19 percent and 34 percent, respectively. In the year-ago quarter, the company reported revenue of $1.8 billion, unit shipments of 29.4 million, and net income of $69 million, or $0.31 per share. Net income in the year-ago period was reduced by charges of $60 million for taxes related to the license of intellectual property to subsidiaries and $49 million for in-process research and development related to the acquisition of Komag.
 
WD Announces Q1 Revenue of $2.1 Billion and Net Income of $211 Million, or $0.93 Per Share Page 2
     The company shipped 14.6 million 2.5-inch drives for notebook PCs and external storage, representing a sequential quarterly increase of 25 percent, and 3.9 million 3.5-inch units for the PVR/DVR market in the first quarter, a 5 percent sequential decrease. On a year-over-year basis, these shipments increased by 147 percent and 5 percent, respectively. Branded product revenue of $383 million was essentially flat with the June quarter and up 19 percent year-over-year. The company also continued to grow its shipments of enterprise-class Serial ATA drives and hard drives featuring its unique GreenPower technology into the desktop, enterprise and consumer electronics markets.
     The company generated $301 million in cash from operations during the September quarter, ending with total cash and cash equivalents of $1.2 billion.
     John Coyne, WD president and chief executive officer, stated: "By presenting customers with a compelling product set, being selective in market and product mix, being responsive with availability and maintaining our focus on quality, efficiency, cost and execution, we have again demonstrated the strength of the WD business model and the WD team. This proven and disciplined approach has repeatedly produced strong, profitable growth."
     Reflecting its ongoing targeted R&D investment over the last several years, the company commenced shipment of several new products during the first quarter, including:
 
WD Announces Q1 Revenue of $2.1 Billion and Net Income of $211 Million, or $0.93 Per Share Page 3
     The investment community conference call to discuss these results and the company's outlook will be broadcast live over the Internet today at 2 p.m. PDT/5 p.m. EDT. The call will be accessible live and on an archived basis via the link below:
About WD
     WD, one of the storage industry's pioneers and long-time leaders, provides products and services for people and organizations that collect, manage and use digital information. The company produces reliable, high-performance hard drives that keep users' data accessible and secure from loss. WD applies its storage expertise to consumer products for external, portable and shared storage applications.
 
WD Announces Q1 Revenue of $2.1 Billion and Net Income of $211 Million, or $0.93 Per Share Page 4
     WD was founded in 1970. The company's storage products are marketed to leading systems manufacturers, selected resellers and retailers under the Western Digital and WD brand names. Visit the Investor section of the company's Web site () to access a variety of financial and investor information.
www.westerndigital.com
     This press release contains forward-looking statements concerning the strength of WD's business model and team, WD's ongoing targeted research and development investment and WD's industry leadership in areal density for 2.5-inch hard drives. These forward-looking statements are based on WD's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, including: the impact of current negative global economic conditions; supply and demand conditions in the hard drive industry; actions by competitors; unexpected advances in competing technologies; uncertainties related to the development and introduction of products based on new technologies and expansion into new hard drive markets; business conditions and growth in the various hard drive markets; pricing trends and fluctuations in average selling prices; changes in the availability and cost of commodity materials and specialized product components that WD does not make internally; negative impacts of the conditions in the global credit markets on WD's investment portfolio; and other risks and uncertainties listed in WD's recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC on August 20, 2008, to which your attention is directed. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof, and WD undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Western Digital, WD, and the WD logo are registered trademarks of Western Digital Technologies, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. As used for storage capacity, one gigabyte (GB) = one billion bytes, and one terabyte (TB) = one trillion bytes. Total accessible capacity varies depending on operating environment.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION INVESTOR INFORMATION SUMMARY Q1 FY2009 (
All amounts in millions, except ASPs and headcount)
 


