FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20080424162818.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 240.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 24, 2008, Western Digital Corporation ("Western Digital") announced financial results for the third fiscal quarter ended March 28, 2008. A copy of the press release making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of Western Digital's Investor Information Summary for the fiscal quarter ended March 28, 2008 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In Western Digital's press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and in its conference call scheduled for 2:00 p.m. PDT/5:00 p.m. EDT today, Western Digital plans to report certain financial information, including net income and earnings per share for the nine months ended March 28, 2008, on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis. Western Digital believes that the non-GAAP measures presented in the press release and during the conference call are useful to investors as they provide an alternative method for measuring Western Digital's operating performance and comparing it against prior periods' performance, excluding first quarter non-recurring charges for in-process research and development and taxes.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Company contacts: Bob Blair Investor Relations 949.672.7834 robert.blair@wdc.com
Steve Shattuck Public Relations 949.672.7817 steve.shattuck@wdc.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
:
LAKE FOREST, Calif.  Apr. 24, 2008  Western Digital Corp. (NYSE: WDC) today reported revenue of $2.1 billion, comprised of $2.022 billion of hard drive revenue and $89 million of revenue from media and substrate sales for the third fiscal quarter ending Mar. 28, 2008. Hard drive revenue grew by 43 percent over the prior-year comparative period on shipments of approximately 34.5 million units, a year-on-year increase of 41 percent in unit volume. Net income was $280 million, or $1.23 per share. Earnings per share grew 132 percent over the prior year. In the year-ago quarter, the company reported revenue of $1.4 billion, unit shipments of 24.5 million and net income of $121 million, or $.53 per share.
     The company generated $431 million in cash from operations during the March quarter, ending with total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $949 million. During the quarter, the company repaid $260 million of debt and repurchased $44 million of common stock.
 
WD Announces Strong Q3 Year-On-Year Performance Page 2
The company recently announced an additional authorization to repurchase $500 million of its shares in the next five years.
     "The hard drive market continued to demonstrate strong year-on-year unit growth of 16.2 percent in the March quarter, while exhibiting an expected seasonal decline of 8.6 percent from the exceptionally strong December quarter, as anticipated in our guidance for the quarter issued on January 23," said John Coyne, WD president and chief executive officer. "Our March quarter revenues demonstrate strong customer preference for the WD value proposition of quality and reliability, a compelling product portfolio and responsive and timely availability, supported by a demonstrated willingness and capability to invest in the future. Our earnings performance is a result of healthy market demand, disciplined financial management, a competitive cost structure, and a committed team with a passion to succeed. We remain very enthusiastic about our opportunities in the fast-growing hard drive industry in the years ahead."
     For the nine-months ended Mar. 28, 2008, WD reported revenues of $6.1 billion and hard drive shipments of 98.1 million, for increases of 48 percent and 37 percent, respectively, over the comparable prior-year period revenue of $4.1 billion and unit shipments of 71.7 million. GAAP net income for the nine-months was $654 million, or $2.89 per share. Excluding $49 million of non-recurring charges for acquired in-process research and development and $60 million of non-recurring tax charges in the first quarter, non-GAAP net income for the current nine-month period was $763 million, or $3.38 per share. These current-period non-GAAP earnings reflect an approximately 117 percent increase over the prior-year nine-month net income and earnings per share amounts of $352 million and $1.56, respectively. There were no non-recurring items in the prior-year nine-month period and therefore there is no comparable non-GAAP measure for the prior year.
 
WD Announces Strong Q3 Year-On-Year Performance Page 3
     The investment community conference call to discuss these results and the company's outlook will be broadcast live over the Internet today at 2 p.m. PDT/5 p.m. EDT. The call will be accessible live and on an archived basis via the link below:
About WD
     WD, one of the storage industry's pioneers and long-time leaders, provides products and services for people and organizations that collect, manage and use digital information. The company produces reliable, high-performance hard drives that keep users' data accessible and secure from loss. WD applies its storage expertise to consumer products for external, portable and shared storage applications.
     WD was founded in 1970. The company's storage products are marketed to leading systems manufacturers, selected resellers and retailers under the Western Digital and WD brand names. Visit the Investor section of the company's Web site () to access a variety of financial and investor information.
www.westerndigital.com
     This press release contains forward-looking statements concerning customer preference for WD's brand and value proposition, WD's opportunities in the hard drive industry and the growth of the hard drive industry. These forward-looking statements are based on WD's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, including: supply and demand conditions in the hard drive industry; actions by competitors; unexpected advances in competing technologies; uncertainties related to the development and introduction of products
 
WD Announces Strong Q3 Year-On-Year Performance Page 4
based on new technologies and expansion into new hard drive markets; business conditions and growth in the desktop, mobile PC, enterprise, consumer electronics and external hard drive markets; pricing trends and fluctuations in average selling prices; failure to continue to effectively integrate WD's media and head technologies; changes in the availability and cost of commodity materials and specialized product components that WD does not make internally; negative impacts of the conditions in the global credit markets on our current investment portfolio; and other risks and uncertainties listed in WD's recent Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on February 5, 2008, to which your attention is directed. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof, and WD undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Western Digital, WD, and the WD logo are registered trademarks of Western Digital Technologies, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION INVESTOR INFORMATION SUMMARY Q3 FY2008
(All amounts in millions, except ASPs and headcount)
 


