FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20090128162308.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 28, 2009, Western Digital Corporation ("Western Digital") announced financial results for the second fiscal quarter ended December 26, 2008. A copy of the press release making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of Western Digital's Investor Information Summary for the fiscal quarter ended December 26, 2008 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In Western Digital's press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and in its conference call scheduled for 2:00 p.m. PDT/5:00 p.m. EDT today, Western Digital plans to report certain financial information, including net income and earnings per share for the quarter ended December 26, 2008, on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis. Western Digital believes that the non-GAAP measures presented in the press release and during the conference call are useful to investors as they provide an alternative method for measuring Western Digital's operating performance and comparing it against prior periods' performance, excluding second quarter restructuring charges associated with Western Digital's restructuring plan announced on December 17, 2008, less tax benefits related to the restructuring charges.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Company contacts: Bob Blair Investor Relations 949.672.7834 robert.blair@wdc.com
Steve Shattuck Public Relations 949.672.7817 steve.shattuck@wdc.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
:
LAKE FOREST, Calif.  Jan. 28, 2009  Western Digital Corp. (NYSE: WDC) today reported revenue of $1.8 billion, on shipments of approximately 35.5 million units and net income of $14 million, or $0.06 per share, for its fiscal second quarter ended Dec. 26, 2008. The company's results include charges of $113 million associated with the restructuring plan announced on Dec. 17, 2008. Excluding the restructuring charges and the related tax benefit of $4 million, non-GAAP net income was $123 million or $0.55 per share.
1
     In the year-ago quarter, the company reported revenue of $2.2 billion, of which $2.1 billion related to the sale of hard drives. Year-ago unit shipments were 34.2 million and net income was $305 million, or $1.35 per share.
      The company shipped 13.8 million 2.5-inch mobile drives and 4.1 million 3.5-inch units for the PVR/DVR market, compared with 8.7 million and 4.1 million units
 
 
WD Announces Q2 Revenue of $1.8 Billion and Net Income of $14 Million, or $0.06 Per Share Page 2
a year ago, respectively. Branded products accounted for 22 percent of hard drive revenue in the December quarter compared with 18 percent in the year-ago quarter.
     The company generated $300 million in cash from operations during the December quarter, ending with total cash and cash equivalents of $1.4 billion.
     "Against a backdrop of unprecedented global economic turmoil and a rapid intra-quarter fall off in demand for hard drives, WD acted swiftly to align production and operating expenses with significantly lower-than-originally planned unit volumes," said John Coyne, president and chief executive officer. "With a strong balance sheet and competitive cost structure, we plan to continue investing in next-generation product platforms and technologies during this downturn. We are focused on maintaining our leadership in technology deployment, ease-of-use features, and availability of the right products for our diversified customer base. We remain enthused about our long-term prospects as a full-line storage supplier in addressing the demands of both the commercial and consumer markets as the digitization of content continues to grow."
     The investment community conference call to discuss these results will be broadcast live over the Internet today at 2 p.m. PST/5 p.m. EST. The call will be accessible live and on an archived basis via the link below:
 
WD Announces Q2 Revenue of $1.8 Billion and Net Income of $14 Million, or $0.06 Per Share Page 3
About WD
     WD, one of the storage industry's pioneers and long-time leaders, provides products and services for people and organizations that collect, manage and use digital information. The company produces reliable, high-performance hard drives that keep users' data accessible and secure from loss. WD applies its storage expertise to consumer products for external, portable and shared storage applications.
     WD was founded in 1970. The company's storage products are marketed to leading systems manufacturers, selected resellers and retailers under the Western Digital and WD brand names. Visit the Investor section of the company's Web site () to access a variety of financial and investor information.
www.westerndigital.com
     This press release contains forward-looking statements concerning the amount and timing of the expected charges and related tax benefit associated with WD's business restructuring plan, the strength of WD's balance sheet and the competitiveness of its cost structure, WD's investment in next-generation product platforms and technologies, WD's leadership in technology deployment and product features and availability, and WD's prospects as a full-line storage supplier for commercial and consumer markets. The amount of restructuring charges recorded in the December quarter is based on current estimates and assumptions related to, among other things, the fair values of assets that will be disposed. These estimates may change up until the date of actual disposal or completion of the restructuring plan. The foregoing forward-looking statements are based on
 
WD Announces Q2 Revenue of $1.8 Billion and Net Income of $14 Million, or $0.06 Per Share Page 4
WD's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, including: the impact of current negative global economic conditions; supply and demand conditions in the hard drive industry; actions by competitors; unexpected advances in competing technologies; uncertainties related to the development and introduction of products based on new technologies and expansion into new hard drive markets; business conditions and growth in the various hard drive markets; pricing trends and fluctuations in average selling prices; changes in the availability and cost of commodity materials and specialized product components that WD does not make internally; and other risks and uncertainties listed in WD's recent Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on October 31, 2008, to which your attention is directed. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof, and WD undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Western Digital, WD, and the WD logo are registered trademarks of Western Digital Technologies, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION INVESTOR INFORMATION SUMMARY Q2 FY2009
(All amounts in millions, except ASPs and headcount)
 


