FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20091022162438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 22, 2009, Western Digital Corporation ("Western Digital") announced financial results for the first fiscal quarter ended October 2, 2009. A copy of the press release making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of Western Digital's Investor Information Summary for the fiscal quarter ended October 2, 2009 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
:
LAKE FOREST, Calif.  Oct. 22, 2009  Western Digital Corp. (NYSE: WDC) today reported record revenue of $2.2 billion, record hard drive shipments of 44.1 million units and net income of $288 million, or $1.25 per share, for its first fiscal quarter ended Oct. 2, 2009. In the year-ago quarter, the company reported revenue of $2.1 billion, unit shipments of 39.4 million, and net income of $211 million.
     The company generated $434 million in cash from operations during the first quarter, ending with total cash and cash equivalents of $2.1 billion.
     "For the second consecutive quarter, demand for hard drives was stronger than expected as the positive industry conditions that materialized in the June quarter continued throughout the September quarter," said John Coyne, president and chief executive officer. "We believe this demand is being driven primarily by consumers as a result of the growing social media phenomenon. This is creating demand in mobile and desktop PCs, branded products and enterprise storage. Hard drive inventories remain at historically low levels, reflecting industry discipline in managing supply and demand.
 
WD Announces Record Q1 Revenue of $2.2 Billion with Net Income of $288 Million, or $1.25 Per Share Page 2
     "In the September quarter, we leveraged our organization-wide agility to respond to unexpectedly robust demand and again generated strong financial results. As we enter the December quarter, demand remains strong and our product line-up, availability and cost profile position us to benefit from continuing growth opportunities."
     Coyne noted that WD continues to realize tangible benefits from its investments in technology, products, processes and capacity over the last several years, enabled by the strongest balance sheet in the industry:
 
WD Announces Record Q1 Revenue of $2.2 Billion with Net Income of $288 Million, or $1.25 Per Share Page 3
     The investment community conference call to discuss these results will be broadcast live over the Internet today at 2 p.m. Pacific/5 p.m. Eastern. The call will be accessible live and on an archived basis via the link below:
 
WD Announces Record Q1 Revenue of $2.2 Billion with Net Income of $288 Million, or $1.25 Per Share Page 4
About WD
     WD, one of the storage industry's pioneers and long-time leaders, provides products and services for people and organizations that collect, manage and use digital information. The company designs and produces reliable, high-performance hard drives and solid state drives that keep users' data accessible and secure from loss. Its advanced technologies are configured into applications for client and enterprise computing, embedded systems and consumer electronics, as well as its own consumer storage and media products.
     WD was founded in 1970. The company's storage products are marketed to leading OEMs, systems manufacturers, selected resellers and retailers under the Western Digital and WD brand names. Visit the Investor section of the company's Web site () to access a variety of financial and investor information.
www.westerndigital.com
     This press release contains forward-looking statements concerning industry demand and WD's prospects for growth. The foregoing forward-looking statements are based on WD's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, including: the impact of recent uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions; supply and demand conditions in the hard drive industry; actions by competitors; unexpected advances in competing technologies; uncertainties related to the development and introduction of products based on new technologies and expansion into new data storage markets; business conditions and growth in the various hard drive markets; pricing trends and fluctuations in average selling prices; changes in the availability and cost of commodity materials and specialized product components that WD does not make internally; and other risks and uncertainties listed in WD's recent Form 10-K filed
 
WD Announces Record Q1 Revenue of $2.2 Billion with Net Income of $288 Million, or $1.25 Per Share Page 5
with the SEC on August 14, 2009, to which your attention is directed. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof, and WD undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Western Digital, WD, the WD logo, WD Scorpio and My Book are registered trademarks, and Blue, My Passport, WD SmartWare and WD TV are trademarks, of Western Digital Technologies, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All other trademarks mentioned herein belong to their respective owners. As used for storage capacity, one megabyte (MB) = one million bytes, one gigabyte (GB) = one billion bytes, and one terabyte (TB) = one trillion bytes. Total accessible capacity varies depending on operating environment.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION INVESTOR INFORMATION SUMMARY Q1 FY2010
(All amounts in millions, except ASPs and headcount)
 


