FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20090423163130.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 23, 2009, Western Digital Corporation ("Western Digital") announced financial results for the third fiscal quarter ended March 27, 2009. A copy of the press release making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of Western Digital's Investor Information Summary for the fiscal quarter ended March 27, 2009 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In Western Digital's press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and in its conference call scheduled for 2:00 p.m. PDT/5:00 p.m. EDT today, Western Digital plans to report certain financial information, including net income and earnings per share for the quarter ended March 27, 2009, on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis. Western Digital believes that the non-GAAP measures presented in the press release and during the conference call are useful to investors as they provide an alternative method for measuring Western Digital's operating performance and comparing it against prior periods' performance, excluding third quarter in-process research and development charges related to Western Digital's acquisition of SiliconSystems, Inc., announced on March 30, 2009, and restructuring charges associated with Western Digital's restructuring plan, announced on December 17, 2008.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
:
LAKE FOREST, Calif.  Apr. 23, 2009  Western Digital Corp. (NYSE: WDC) today reported revenue of $1.6 billion, on shipments of approximately 31.6 million units and net income of $50 million, or $0.22 per share, for its fiscal third quarter ended Mar. 27, 2009. The company's results include charges of $14 million for in-process research and development related to the SiliconSystems, Inc. acquisition and $4 million associated with the restructuring plan announced Dec. 17, 2008. Excluding these charges, non-GAAP net income was $68 million or $0.30 per share. In the year-ago quarter, the company reported revenue of $2.1 billion, unit shipments of 34.5 million and net income of $280 million, or $1.23 per share.
1
     The company generated $355 million in cash from operations during the March quarter, ending with total cash and cash equivalents of $1.6 billion.
     "We are pleased with our financial performance in the March quarter, reflecting continued profitability and cash generation," said John Coyne, president and chief executive officer of WD. "We managed our market segment participation, product mix and costs to optimize our returns in a challenging environment. We have taken a series of actions to resize and restructure the
 
 
WD Announces Q3 Revenue of $1.6 Billion and Net Income of $50 Million, or $0.22 Per Share Page 2
business to remain profitable and cash flow positive at a $1.5 billion quarterly revenue level and the effects of these actions are already showing up in our results."
     Coyne also noted that WD sustained its investments in technology and new products in the March quarter, with growing shipments of the industry's first 2 terabyte hard drive and of several new products in its branded products portfolio.
     The company also broadened its product and market breadth with the recent acquisition of SiliconSystems, a leading maker of solid-state drives, which now comprises WD's solid-state storage business unit. "SiliconSystems' intellectual property and technical expertise will accelerate WD's solid-state drive development programs, providing greater choice for our customers to satisfy all their storage requirements," said Coyne. "Integration into WD is well under way and proceeding according to plan."
     The investment community conference call to discuss these results will be broadcast live over the Internet today at 2 p.m. PDT/5 p.m. EDT. The call will be accessible live and on an archived basis via the link below:
About WD
     WD, one of the storage industry's pioneers and long-time leaders, provides products and services for people and organizations that collect, manage and use digital information. The company produces reliable, high-performance hard drives and solid-state storage that keep users'
 
WD Announces Q3 Revenue of $1.6 Billion and Net Income of $50 Million, or $0.22 Per Share Page 3
data accessible and secure from loss. WD applies its storage expertise to consumer products for external, portable and network storage applications.
     WD was founded in 1970. The company's storage products are marketed to leading systems manufacturers, selected resellers and retailers under the Western Digital and WD brand names. Visit the Investor section of the company's Web site () to access a variety of financial and investor information.
www.westerndigital.com
     This press release contains forward-looking statements concerning WD's profitability and cash generation at certain revenue levels, acceleration of WD's solid-state drive programs by the intellectual property and technical expertise added through the acqusition of SiliconSystems, and integration of SiliconSystems' business into WD's business. The foregoing forward-looking statements are based on WD's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, including: the impact of current negative global economic conditions; supply and demand conditions in the hard drive industry; actions by competitors; unexpected advances in competing technologies; uncertainties related to the development and introduction of products based on new technologies and expansion into new data storage markets; business conditions and growth in the various hard drive markets; pricing trends and fluctuations in average selling prices; changes in the availability and cost of commodity materials and specialized product components that WD does not make internally; and other risks and uncertainties listed in WD's recent Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on January 29, 2009, to which your attention is directed. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which
 
WD Announces Q3 Revenue of $1.6 Billion and Net Income of $50 Million, or $0.22 Per Share Page 4
speak only as of the date hereof, and WD undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Western Digital, WD, the WD logo and SiliconSystems are registered trademarks of Western Digital Technologies, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the U.S. and other countries.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION INVESTOR INFORMATION SUMMARY Q3 FY2009
(All amounts in millions, except ASPs and headcount)
 


