FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20100121162256.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On January 21, 2010, Western Digital Corporation ("Western Digital") announced financial results for the second fiscal quarter ended January 1, 2010. A copy of the press release making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of Western Digital's Investor Information Summary for the second quarter ended January 1, 2010 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
(d) Exhibits
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
:
LAKE FOREST, Calif.  Jan. 21, 2010  Western Digital Corp. (NYSE: WDC) today reported revenue of $2.6 billion, hard drive shipments of 49.5 million units and net income of $429 million, or $1.85 per share, for its second fiscal quarter ended Jan. 1, 2010. In the year-ago quarter, the company reported revenue of $1.8 billion, hard drive shipments of 35.5 million units, and net income of $14 million. The year-ago net income included $113 million of restructuring charges.
     The company generated a record $557 million in cash from operations during the second quarter, ending with total cash and cash equivalents of $2.4 billion.
     "We are very pleased with WD's strong financial performance in our second fiscal quarter," said John Coyne, president and chief executive officer. "For the third consecutive quarter, we increased output in a supply constrained environment, providing strong support of our customers' growth opportunities, primarily in the consumer segment but, notably, with some emerging strength in the commercial sector. Continued customer preference for WD products, our timely investments in capital, the support of our supply partners and outstanding execution
 
WD Announces Fiscal Q2 Revenue of $2.6 Billion With Net Income of $429 Million, or $1.85 Per Share Page 2
by the WD team generated record revenue and profits. A moderate pricing environment, combined with our passionate focus on cost and efficiency, enabled gross margins of 26.2 percentwell above the high end of our model range."
     The investment community conference call to discuss these results will be broadcast live over the Internet today at 2 p.m. Pacific/5 p.m. Eastern. The call will be accessible live and on an archived basis via the link below:
About WD
     WD, one of the storage industry's pioneers and long-time leaders, provides products and services for people and organizations that collect, manage and use digital information. The company designs and produces reliable, high-performance hard drives and solid state drives that keep users' data accessible and secure from loss. Its advanced technologies are configured into applications for client and enterprise computing, embedded systems and consumer electronics, as well as its own consumer storage and media products.
     WD was founded in 1970. The company's storage products are marketed to leading OEMs, systems manufacturers, selected resellers and retailers under the Western Digital and WD brand names. Visit the Investor section of the company's Web site () to access a variety of financial and investor information.
www.westerndigital.com
Western Digital, WD, and the WD logo are registered trademarks of Western Digital Technologies, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned herein belong to their respective owners.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION INVESTOR INFORMATION SUMMARY Q2 FY2010 (
All amounts in millions, except ASPs and headcount)
 


