FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20100422162840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 22, 2010, Western Digital Corporation ("Western Digital") announced financial results for the third fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2010. A copy of the press release making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of Western Digital's Investor Information Summary for the third fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2010 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
            Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
:
LAKE FOREST, Calif.  Apr. 22, 2010  Western Digital Corp. (NYSE: WDC) today reported revenue of $2.6 billion, hard drive shipments of 51.1 million units and net income of $400 million, or $1.71 per share, for its third fiscal quarter ended Apr. 2, 2010. In the year-ago quarter, the company reported revenue of $1.6 billion, hard drive shipments of 31.6 million units, and net income of $50 million, or $0.22 per share.
     The company generated $588 million in cash from operations during the third quarter, ending with total cash and cash equivalents of $2.8 billion.
     John Coyne, president and chief executive officer said: "With market demand stronger than anticipated in the March quarter, our large-scale vertical integration, agile business model and product breadth allowed us to respond to this upside opportunity and again grow our share of the overall hard drive market.
 
WD Announces Fiscal Q3 Revenue of $2.6 Billion With Net Income of $400 Million, or $1.71 Per Share Page 2
     "We believe that 2010 will continue to be a strong year for digital storage," said Coyne. "We will maintain our focus on facilitating our customers' growth and making them successful while at the same time achieving sustained profitability for WD."
     The investment community conference call to discuss these results will be broadcast live over the Internet today at 2 p.m. Pacific/5 p.m. Eastern. The call will be accessible live and on an archived basis via the link below:
About WD
     WD, one of the storage industry's pioneers and long-time leaders, provides products and services for people and organizations that collect, manage and use digital information. The company designs and produces reliable, high-performance hard drives and solid state drives that keep users' data accessible and secure from loss. Its advanced technologies are configured into applications for client and enterprise computing, embedded systems and consumer electronics, as well as its own consumer storage and media products.
     WD was founded in 1970. The company's storage products are marketed to leading OEMs, systems manufacturers, selected resellers and retailers under the Western Digital and WD brand names. Visit the Investor section of the company's website () to access a variety of financial and investor information.
www.westerndigital.com
 
WD Announces Fiscal Q3 Revenue of $2.6 Billion With Net Income of $400 Million, or $1.71 Per Share Page 3
     This press release contains forward-looking statements concerning demand for digital storage in 2010, growth by WD's customers and WD's profitability. The foregoing forward-looking statements are based on WD's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, including: the impact of recent uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions; supply and demand conditions in the hard drive industry; actions by competitors; unexpected advances in competing technologies; uncertainties related to the development and introduction of products based on new technologies and expansion into new data storage markets; business conditions and growth in the various hard drive markets; pricing trends and fluctuations in average selling prices; changes in the availability and cost of commodity materials and specialized product components that WD does not make internally; and other risks and uncertainties listed in WD's recent Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on Jan. 29, 2010, to which your attention is directed. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof, and WD undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Western Digital, WD, and the WD logo are registered trademarks of Western Digital Technologies, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned herein belong to their respective owners.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION INVESTOR INFORMATION SUMMARY Q3 FY2010
(All amounts in millions, except ASPs and headcount)
 


