FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20100401171132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
          On March 31, 2010, Western Digital Corporation ("Western Digital") and Dr. Hossein M. Moghadam entered into a Separation and General Release Agreement (the "Separation Agreement") pursuant to which Dr. Moghadam will leave his position as Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer of Western Digital, and his employment by Western Digital will terminate, effective March 31, 2010 (the "Separation Date"). Dr. Moghadam, 66, is retiring after leading Western Digital's advanced technology team for almost 10 years. Going forward, Western Digital's advanced technology efforts will be led by Dr. William Cain, a senior technologist and a member of Dr. Moghadam's team for the past several years.
          Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Dr. Moghadam has agreed to protect Western Digital's confidential information and to comply with certain non-solicitation and cooperation provisions. The Separation Agreement also provides for a customary general release of claims by Dr. Moghadam, as well as certain other standard terms. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement and applicable law, Dr. Moghadam has up to seven (7) days to revoke the Separation Agreement. If Dr. Moghadam does not revoke the Separation Agreement and complies with his obligations thereunder, he will be entitled to the following separation benefits:
          Under the terms and conditions of the Company's stock incentive plan and stock option agreement, and based on Dr. Moghadam's age and years of service, Dr. Moghadam's outstanding stock options at the date of his separation will automatically vest and become fully exercisable and, in accordance with the stock incentive plan and his option agreements, will remain exercisable during the three (3) year period following his separation.
          The foregoing summary of the Separation Agreement is qualified in its entirety by the text of the Separation Agreement, which Western Digital expects to file as an exhibit to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2010.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


