FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20110118162341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On January 18, 2011, Western Digital Corporation ("Western Digital") announced financial results for the second fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2010. A copy of the press release making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of Western Digital's Investor Information Summary for the second quarter ended December 31, 2010 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Company contacts: Bob Blair Investor Relations 949.672.7834 robert.blair@wdc.com
Steve Shattuck Public Relations 949.672.7817 steve.shattuck@wdc.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
:
IRVINE, Calif.  Jan. 18, 2011  Western Digital Corp. (NYSE: WDC) today reported revenue of $2.475 billion, hard-drive unit shipments of 52.2 million and net income of $225 million, or $0.96 per share for its second fiscal quarter ended Dec. 31, 2010. In the year-ago quarter, the company reported revenue of $2.619 billion, shipped 49.5 million hard drives, and reported net income and earnings per share of $429 million and $1.85, respectively.
The company generated $505 million in cash from operations during the December quarter, ending with total cash and cash equivalents of $3.1 billion.
"We are pleased to deliver better-than-expected revenues, profitability and gross margin in the December quarter, reflecting solid execution and an improvement in hard drive industry conditions compared with the prior two quarters," said John Coyne, president and chief executive officer. "The opportunity for profitable growth in our industry remains tremendous and we are committed to improving our financial performance over the longer term. We plan to do so with a continued emphasis on our industry-leading low-cost structure, high quality, highly reliable and highly available products, and a sharp focus on matching production with true customer demand."
 
WD Announces Q2 Revenue of $2.475 Billion and Net Income of $225 Million, or $0.96 Per Share Page 2
The investment community conference call to discuss these results will be broadcast live over the Internet today at 3 p.m. PST/6 p.m. EST. The call will be accessible live and on an archived basis via the link below. The company is publishing an expanded investor summary sheet today on the investor relations section of its Web site. After the conclusion of today's webcast conference call, the summary sheet will be updated to reflect the company's guidance.
About WD
WD, one of the storage industry's pioneers and long-time leaders, provides products and services for people and organizations that collect, manage and use digital information. The company designs and produces reliable, high-performance hard drives and solid state drives that keep users' data accessible and secure from loss. Its advanced technologies are configured into applications for client and enterprise computing, embedded systems and consumer electronics, as well as its own consumer storage and media products.
WD was founded in 1970. The company's storage products are marketed to leading OEMs, systems manufacturers, selected resellers and retailers under the Western Digital and WD brand names. Visit the Investor section of the company's Web site () to access a variety of financial and investor information.
www.westerndigital.com
 
WD Announces Q2 Revenue of $2.475 Billion and Net Income of $225 Million, or $0.96 Per Share Page 3
This press release contains forward-looking statements concerning opportunities for growth in the industry and WD's financial performance. The foregoing forward-looking statements are based on WD's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, including: the impact of continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions; supply and demand conditions in the hard drive industry; actions by competitors; unexpected advances in competing technologies; uncertainties related to the development and introduction of products based on new technologies and expansion into new data storage markets; business conditions and growth in the various hard drive markets; pricing trends and fluctuations in average selling prices; changes in the availability and cost of commodity materials and specialized product components that WD does not make internally; and other risks and uncertainties listed in WD's recent Form 10-Q filed with the SEC Oct. 29, 2010, to which your attention is directed. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof, and WD undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Western Digital, WD, and the WD logo are registered trademarks of Western Digital Technologies, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned herein belong to their respective owners.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 


