FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20111114161912.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The 2011 annual meeting of the stockholders of Western Digital Corporation (the "Company") was held on November 10, 2011. Results of the voting at the meeting are set forth below.
. The stockholders elected the following ten directors to hold office until the next annual meeting of the Company and until their successors are elected and qualified. The voting results were as follows:
Election of Directors
. The stockholders voted to approve, on an advisory basis, the named executive officer compensation described in the proxy statement for the annual meeting. The voting results were as follows:
Advisory Vote on Named Executive Officer Compensation
. The stockholders selected, on an advisory basis, one year (rather than two years or three years) as the preferred frequency of future advisory votes on named executive officer compensation. The voting results were as follows:
Advisory Vote on the Frequency of Future Advisory Votes on Named Executive Officer Compensation
 
After considering the results of the foregoing advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on named executive officer compensation, the Company's Board of Directors has decided that it will include an advisory vote on the compensation paid to the Company's named executive officers in its proxy materials every year until the next required vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation, which will occur no later than the Company's annual meeting of stockholders in 2017.
. The stockholders ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending June 29, 2012. The voting results were as follows:
Appointment of KPMG LLP as Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


