FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20110420162341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 20, 2011, Western Digital Corporation ("Western Digital") announced financial results for the third fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2011. A copy of the press release making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of Western Digital's Investor Information Summary for the third quarter ended April 1, 2011 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In Western Digital's press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto, Western Digital reports certain financial information, including net income and earnings per share on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis for the third fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2011. These non-GAAP measures exclude acquisition expenses related to Western Digital's planned acquisition of Hitachi Global Storage Technologies. Because management believes these expenses may not be indicative of ongoing operations, management believes that the non-GAAP measures presented in the press release are useful to investors as an alternative method for measuring Western Digital's operating performance and comparing it against prior periods' performance.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Company contacts: Bob Blair Investor Relations 949.672.7834 robert.blair@wdc.com
Steve Shattuck Public Relations 949.672.7817 steve.shattuck@wdc.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
:
IRVINE, Calif.Apr. 20, 2011Western Digital Corp. (NYSE: WDC) today reported revenue of $2.25 billion, hard-drive unit shipments of 50 million and net income of $146 million, or $0.62 per share, for its third fiscal quarter ended Apr. 1, 2011. The company's results include expenses of $10 million associated with the planned acquisition of Hitachi Global Storage Technologies announced Mar. 7, 2011. Excluding the acquisition-related expenses, non-GAAP net income was $156 million or $0.66 per share.
1
In the year-ago quarter, the company reported revenue of $2.64 billion, shipped 51 million hard drives, and reported net income and earnings per share of $400 million and $1.71, respectively.
The company generated $313 million in cash from operations during the March quarter, ending with total cash and cash equivalents of $3.2 billion.
"The March quarter in the hard drive industry was impacted by two significant developmentsthe delayed supply of Industry CPUs to PC makers and the tragic events in Japan," said
 
WD Announces Q3 Revenue of $2.25 Billion and Net Income of $146 Million, or $0.62 Per Share Page 2
John Coyne, president and chief executive officer. "While demand for hard drives in the quarter got off to a slow start, it later picked up as availability of CPUs improved and as fears took hold of component shortages related to the events in Japan.
"In relation to our planned acquisition of Hitachi GST, we are in the approval process with all required regulatory agencies, our integration planning is well underway and we have successfully syndicated the loan financing associated with the transaction."
The investment community conference call to discuss these results will be broadcast live over the Internet today at 3 p.m. Pacific/6 p.m. Eastern. The call will be accessible live and on an archived basis via the link below:
About WD
WD, one of the storage industry's pioneers and long-time leaders, provides products and services for people and organizations that collect, manage and use digital information. The company designs and produces reliable, high-performance hard drives and solid state drives that keep users' data accessible and secure from loss. Its advanced technologies are configured into applications for client and enterprise computing, embedded systems and consumer electronics, as well as its own consumer storage and home entertainment products.
 
WD Announces Q3 Revenue of $2.25 Billion and Net Income of $146 Million, or $0.62 Per Share Page 3
WD was founded in 1970. The company's storage products are marketed to leading OEMs, systems manufacturers, selected resellers and retailers under the Western Digital and WD brand names. Visit the Investor section of the company's Website () to access a variety of financial and investor information
www.westerndigital.com
Western Digital, WD, and the WD logo are registered trademarks of Western Digital Technologies, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned herein belong to their respective owners.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 


