FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20121022163104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 22, 2012, Western Digital Corporation ("Western Digital") announced financial results for the first fiscal quarter ended September 28, 2012. A copy of the press release making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of Western Digital's Investor Information Summary for the first quarter ended September 28, 2012 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
In Western Digital's press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto, Western Digital reports certain financial information, including net income and earnings per share on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis for the first fiscal quarter ended September 28, 2012. These non-GAAP measures exclude amortization of intangibles related to the HGST acquisition and certain employee termination benefits and other charges. Because management believes these expenses may not be indicative of ongoing operations, management believes that the non-GAAP measures presented in the press release are useful to investors as an alternative method for measuring Western Digital's operating performance and comparing it against prior periods' performance.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Company contacts:
Bob Blair
Western Digital Investor Relations
949.672.7834
robert.blair@wdc.com
Steve Shattuck
Western Digital Public Relations
949.672.7817
steve.shattuck@wdc.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
IRVINE, Calif.  Oct. 22, 2012  Western Digital Corp. (NASDAQ: WDC) today reported revenue of $4.0 billion, hard-drive shipments of 62.5 million and net income of $519 million, or $2.06 per share for its first fiscal quarter ended Sept. 28, 2012. On a non-GAAP basis, net income was $594 million or $2.36 per share.
1
In the year-ago quarter, the company reported revenue of $2.7 billion, net income of $239 million, or $1.01 per share, and shipped 57.8 million hard drives. Non-GAAP net income in the year-ago quarter was $260 million, or $1.10 per share.
2
The company generated $936 million in cash from operations during the September quarter, ending with total cash and cash equivalents of $3.5 billion. During the quarter, the company utilized $218 million to buy back 5.2 million shares of common stock. On Sept. 13, the company declared a $0.25 per common share dividend, which was paid Oct. 15.
"We are pleased to deliver another quarter of strong financial performance, continuing our track record of consistent execution," said John Coyne, chief executive officer. "While the macroeconomic environment is dampening near term demand, we remain confident in the continued long-term growth in the creation, storage and management of digital content. Western Digital has never been better positioned to address this opportunity, with great people, deep technology, a broad product portfolio and strong customer and supplier relationships."
The investment community conference call to discuss these results will be broadcast live over the Internet today at 2 p.m. Pacific/5 p.m. Eastern. The live and archived conference call webcast can be accessed online at . The telephone replay number is 866-395-1651 in the U.S. or +1-203-369-0471 for international callers.
investor.wdc.com
Western Digital Announces Q1 Revenue of $4 Billion and
Non-GAAP Net Income of $594 Million, or $2.36 Per Share
1
Page 2
About Western Digital
Western Digital Corp. (NASDAQ: WDC), Irvine, Calif., is a global provider of products and services that empower people to create, manage, experience and preserve digital content. Its subsidiaries design and manufacture storage devices, networking equipment and home entertainment products under the WD, HGST and G-Technology brands. Visit the Investor section of the company's website (www.westerndigital.com) to access a variety of financial and investor information.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements concerning industry demand and the company's position in the industry. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including the impact of continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions; supply and demand conditions in the hard drive industry; uncertainties concerning the availability and cost of commodity materials and specialized product components; actions by competitors; unexpected advances in competing technologies; uncertainties related to the development and introduction of products based on new technologies and expansion into new data storage markets; business conditions and growth in the various hard drive markets; pricing trends and fluctuations in average selling prices; and other risks and uncertainties listed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including the company's recent Form 10-K filed with the SEC on Aug. 20, 2012, to which your attention is directed. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof, and the company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Western Digital Announces Q1 Revenue of $4 Billion and
Non-GAAP Net Income of $594 Million, or $2.36 Per Share
1
Page 2
Western Digital, WD and the WD logo are registered trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. Other marks may be mentioned herein that belong to other companies.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2


