FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20121113163113.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) The Board of Directors (the "Board") of Western Digital Corporation (the "Company") previously adopted an amendment and restatement of the Western Digital Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan (the "Restated Plan"), subject to approval by the Company's stockholders. Among other things, the Restated Plan reflects amendments to (i) increase the number of shares of the Company's common stock available for award grants under the Restated Plan by 11,500,000 shares; (ii) increase the ratio in respect of which any "full-value awards" (such as restricted stock units) will count against the share limit of the Restated Plan from 1.35 to 1.72 shares for every one share actually issued in connection with the award; (iii) extend the Company's authority to grant awards under the Restated Plan intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code through the Company's 2017 annual meeting of stockholders; (iv) to approve the performance criteria listed in Section 5.2.2 of the Restated Plan for use in connection with such performance-based awards and (v) to extend the expiration date of the Restated Plan to August 6, 2022. According to the results from the Company's annual meeting of stockholders held on November 8, 2012, the Company's stockholders have approved the Restated Plan.
The following summary of the Restated Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Restated Plan, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by this reference.
The Board or one or more committees appointed by the Board administers the Restated Plan. The Board has delegated general administrative authority for the Restated Plan to the Compensation Committee of the Board. The administrator of the Restated Plan has broad authority under the plan to, among other things, select participants and determine the type(s) of award(s) that they are to receive, and determine the number of shares that are to be subject to awards and the terms and conditions of awards, including the price (if any) to be paid for the shares or the award.
Persons eligible to receive awards under the Restated Plan include officers or employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, directors of the Company, and certain consultants and advisors to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The maximum number of shares of the Company's common stock that may be issued or transferred pursuant to awards under the Restated Plan equals the sum of: (1) 48,835,048 shares, plus (2) the number of any shares subject to stock options granted and outstanding as of November 8, 2012 under the Company's Employee Stock Option Plan, Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors or Broad-Based Stock Incentive Plan which expire, or for any reason are cancelled or terminated, after that date without being exercised.
Shares issued in respect of any "full-value award" granted under the Restated Plan will be counted against the share limit described in the preceding paragraph as 1.72 shares for every one share actually issued in connection with the award. For example, if a stock bonus of 100 shares of the Company's common stock were granted under the Restated Plan, 172 shares would be charged against the share limit with respect to that stock bonus award. For this purpose, a "full-value award" generally means any award granted under the plan other than a stock option or stock appreciation right.
 
To the extent that an award is settled in cash or a form other than shares, the shares that would have been delivered had there been no such cash or other settlement will not be counted against the shares available for issuance under the Restated Plan. Shares that are exchanged by a participant or withheld by the Company as full or partial payment in connection with any award under the Restated Plan, as well as any shares exchanged by a participant or withheld by the Company or one of its subsidiaries to satisfy the tax withholding obligations related to any award, will not be available for subsequent awards under the Restated Plan. In the event that shares are delivered in respect of a dividend equivalent right, only the actual number of shares delivered with respect to the award will be counted against the share limits of the Restated Plan. To the extent that shares are delivered pursuant to the exercise of a stock option or stock appreciation right, the number of underlying shares as to which the exercise related shall be counted against the share limits of the Restated Plan, as opposed to only counting the shares actually issued. Shares that are subject to or underlie awards which expire or for any reason are cancelled or terminated, are forfeited, fail to vest, or for any other reason are not paid or delivered under the Restated Plan will again be available for subsequent awards under the Restated Plan.
The types of awards that may be granted under the Restated Plan include stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, stock bonuses and other forms of awards granted or denominated in the Company's common stock or units of the Company's common stock, as well as cash bonus awards.
As is customary in incentive plans of this nature, each share limit and the number and kind of shares available under the Restated Plan and any outstanding awards, as well as the exercise or purchase price of awards, and the performance targets under certain types of performance-based awards, are subject to adjustment in the event of certain reorganizations, mergers, combinations, recapitalizations, stock splits, stock dividends, or other similar events that change the number or kind of shares outstanding, and extraordinary dividends or distributions of property to the stockholders.
 
As indicated above, the annual meeting of stockholders of the Company was held on November 8, 2012. Results of the voting at the meeting are set forth below.
. The stockholders elected the following twelve directors to hold office until the next annual meeting and until their successors are elected and qualified. The voting results were as follows:
Election of Directors
 
 
. As described in more detail above, the stockholders approved an amendment and restatement of the Company's Amended and Restated 2004 Performance Incentive Plan. The voting results were as follows:
Approval of amendment and restatement of 2004 Performance Incentive Plan
 
. The stockholders approved an amendment and restatement of the Company's 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The voting results were as follows:
Approval of amendment and restatement of 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
 
. The stockholders voted to approve, on an advisory basis, the named executive officer compensation described in the proxy statement for the annual meeting. The voting results were as follows:
Advisory Vote on Named Executive Officer Compensation
 
. The stockholders ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending June 28, 2013. The voting results were as follows:
Appointment of KPMG LLP as independent registered public accounting firm
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
The purpose of this Western Digital Corporation 2004 Performance Incentive Plan (this "") of Western Digital Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), is to promote the success of the Corporation and to increase stockholder value by providing an additional means through the grant of awards to attract, motivate, retain and reward selected employees and other eligible persons.
Plan
Corporation
 
The Administrator (as such term is defined in Section 3.1) may grant awards under this Plan only to those persons that the Administrator determines to be Eligible Persons. An is any person who is either: (a) an officer (whether or not a director) or employee of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries; (b) a director of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries; or (c) an individual consultant or advisor who renders or has rendered bona fide services (other than services in connection with the offering or sale of securities of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries in a capital-raising transaction or as a market maker or promoter of securities of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries) to the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries and who is selected to participate in this Plan by the Administrator; provided, however, that a person who is otherwise an Eligible Person under clause (c) above may participate in this Plan only if such participation would not adversely affect either the Corporation's eligibility to use Form S-8 to register under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), the offering and sale of shares issuable under this Plan by the Corporation or the Corporation's compliance with any other applicable laws. An Eligible Person who has been granted an award (a "participant") may, if otherwise eligible, be granted additional awards if the Administrator shall so determine. As used herein, means any corporation or other entity a majority of whose outstanding voting stock or voting power is beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation; and means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
"Eligible Person"
"Securities Act"
"Subsidiary"
"Board"
 
 
With respect to awards intended to satisfy the requirements for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), this Plan shall be administered by a committee consisting solely of two or more outside directors (as this requirement is applied under Section 162(m) of the Code); provided, however, that the failure to satisfy such requirement shall not affect the validity of the action of any committee otherwise duly authorized and acting in the matter. Award grants to, and transactions in or involving awards held by persons who the Board or a committee thereof determines are subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), must be duly and timely authorized by a Board committee consisting solely of two or more non-employee directors (as this requirement is applied under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act). To the extent required by any applicable listing agency, this Plan shall be administered by a committee composed entirely of independent directors (within the meaning of the applicable listing agency).
Code
Exchange Act
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing and except for an adjustment pursuant to Section 7.1 or a repricing approved by stockholders, in no case may the Administrator (1) amend an outstanding stock option or SAR to reduce the exercise price or base price of the award, (2) cancel, exchange, or surrender an outstanding stock option or SAR in exchange for cash or other awards for the purpose of repricing the award, or (3) cancel, exchange, or surrender an outstanding stock option or SAR in exchange for an option or SAR with an exercise or base price that is less than the exercise or base price of the original award.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided that in no event shall the Share Limit exceed 74,349,531 shares (which is the sum of the 43,500,000 shares set forth above, plus the number of shares available under the Option Plans for additional award grant purposes as of the Effective Date (as such term is defined in Section 8.6.1), plus the aggregate number of shares subject to options previously granted and outstanding under the Option Plans as of the Effective Date, plus the maximum number of shares subject to restricted stock awards previously granted and outstanding under the Broad-Based Plan that had not vested as of the Effective Date), plus the maximum number of shares that will become available as a result of the expiration of the Stock-For-Fees Plan.
Shares issued in respect of any "Full-Value Award" granted under this Plan shall be counted against the foregoing Share Limit as 1.72 shares for every one share actually issued in connection with such award. (For example, if a stock bonus of 100 shares of Common Stock is granted under this Plan, 172 shares shall be charged against the Share Limit in connection with that award.) For this purpose, a "" means any award under this Plan that is a stock option grant or a stock appreciation right grant.
Full-Value Award
not
 
The following limits also apply with respect to awards granted under this Plan:
 
 
 
 
Each of the foregoing numerical limits is subject to adjustment as contemplated by Section 4.3, Section 7.1, and Section 8.10.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. A stock option is the grant of a right to purchase a specified number of shares of Common Stock during a specified period as determined by the Administrator. An option may be intended as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code (an "ISO") or a nonqualified stock option (an option not intended to be an ISO). The award agreement for an option will indicate if the option is intended as an ISO; otherwise it will be deemed to be a nonqualified stock option. The maximum term of each option (ISO or nonqualified) shall be ten (10) years. The per share exercise price for each option shall be not less than 100% of the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant of the option. When an option is exercised, the exercise price for the shares to be purchased shall be paid in full in cash or such other method permitted by the Administrator consistent with Section 5.5.
5.1.1
Stock Options
 
. To the extent that the aggregate fair market value (determined at the time of grant of the applicable option) of stock with respect to which ISOs first become exercisable by a participant in any calendar year exceeds $100,000, taking into account both Common Stock subject to ISOs under this Plan and stock subject to ISOs under all other plans of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries (or any parent or predecessor corporation to the extent required by and within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder), such options shall be treated as nonqualified stock options. In reducing the number of options treated as ISOs to meet the $100,000 limit, the most recently granted options shall be reduced first. To the extent a reduction of simultaneously granted options is necessary to meet the $100,000 limit, the Administrator may, in the manner and to the extent permitted by law, designate which shares of Common Stock are to be treated as shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an ISO. ISOs may only be granted to employees of the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries (for this purpose, the term "subsidiary" is used as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code, which generally requires an unbroken chain of ownership of at least 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of each subsidiary in the chain beginning with the Corporation and ending with the subsidiary in question). There shall be imposed in any award agreement relating to ISOs such other terms and conditions as from time to time are required in order that the option be an "incentive stock option" as that term is defined in Section 422 of the Code. No ISO may be granted to any person who, at the time the option is granted, owns (or is deemed to own under Section 424(d) of the Code) shares of outstanding Common Stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Corporation, unless the exercise price of such option is at least 110% of the fair market value of the stock subject to the option and such option by its terms is not exercisable after the expiration of five years from the date such option is granted.
5.1.2
Additional Rules Applicable to ISOs
. A stock appreciation right or "" is a right to receive a payment, in cash and/or Common Stock, equal to the excess of the fair market value of a specified number of shares of Common Stock on the date the SAR is exercised over the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date the SAR was granted (the "base price") as set forth in the applicable award agreement. The maximum term of an SAR shall be ten (10) years.
5.1.3
Stock Appreciation Rights
SAR
. The other types of awards that may be granted under this Plan include: (a) stock bonuses, restricted stock, performance stock, stock units, phantom stock, dividend equivalents, or similar rights to purchase or acquire shares, whether at a fixed or variable price or ratio related to the Common Stock, upon the passage of time, the occurrence of one or more events, or the satisfaction of performance criteria or other conditions, or any combination thereof; (b) any similar securities with a value derived from the value of or related to the Common Stock and/or returns thereon; or (c) cash awards. Dividend equivalent rights may be granted as a separate award or in connection with another award under this Plan; provided, however, that dividend equivalent rights may not be granted in connection with a stock option or SAR granted under this Plan. In addition, any dividends and/or dividend equivalents as to the unvested portion of a restricted stock award that is subject to performance-based vesting requirements or the unvested portion of a stock unit award that is subject to performance-based vesting requirements will be subject to termination and forfeiture to the same extent as the corresponding portion of the award to which they relate.
5.1.4
Other Awards
 
. Except for any accelerated vesting required or permitted pursuant to Section 7 and except as otherwise provided in the following provisions of this Section 5.1.5, and subject to such additional vesting requirements or conditions as the Administrator may establish with respect to the award, each award granted under this Plan that is a Full-Value Award and payable in shares of Common Stock shall be subject to the following minimum vesting requirements: (a) if the award includes a performance-based vesting condition, the award shall not vest earlier than the first anniversary of the date of grant of the award and vesting shall occur only if the award holder is employed by, a director of, or otherwise providing services to the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries on such vesting date; and (b) if the award does not include a performance-based vesting condition, the award shall not vest more rapidly than in monthly installments over the three-year period immediately following the date of grant of the award and vesting of any vesting installment of the award shall occur only if the award holder is employed by, a director of, or otherwise providing services to the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries on the date such installment is scheduled to vest; provided that the Administrator may accelerate or provide in the applicable award agreement for the accelerated vesting of any Full-Value Award in connection with a change in control of the award holder's employer (or a parent thereof), the termination of the award holder's employment (including a termination of employment due to the award holder's death, disability or retirement, but not including a termination of employment by the award holder's employer for cause), or as consideration or partial consideration for a release by the award holder of pending or threatened claims against the Company, the award holder's employer, or any of their respective officers, directors or other affiliates (regardless of whether the release is given in connection with a termination of employment by the award holder's employer for cause or other circumstances). The Administrator may, however, accelerate or provide in the applicable award agreement for the accelerated vesting of any Full-Value Award in circumstances not contemplated by the preceding sentence, and/or provide for a vesting schedule that is shorter than the minimum schedule contemplated by the preceding sentence, in such circumstances as the Administrator may deem appropriate; provided, however, that the portion of any such Full-Value Award that vests earlier than the minimum vesting dates that would be applicable pursuant to the minimum vesting requirements of the preceding sentence (or, as to any accelerated vesting, provides for accelerated vesting other than in the circumstances contemplated by the preceding sentence) shall count against the applicable share limits of Section 4.2 as a Special Full-Value Award (as opposed to counting against such limits only as a Full-Value Award).
5.1.5
Minimum Vesting Requirements
 
The eligible class of persons for Performance-Based Awards under this Section 5.2 shall be officers and employees of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries. The Administrator approving Performance-Based Awards or making any certification required pursuant to Section 5.2.4 must be constituted as provided in Section 3.1 for awards that are intended as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
5.2.1
Class; Administrator
.
The specific performance goals for Performance-Based Awards (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs) shall be, on an absolute or relative basis, established based on one or more of the following business criteria ("") as selected by the Administrator in its sole discretion: earnings per share, cash flow (which means cash and cash equivalents derived from either net cash flow from operations or net cash flow from operations, financing and investing activities), stock price, total stockholder return, gross revenue, revenue growth, operating income (before or after taxes), net earnings (before or after interest, taxes, depreciation and/or amortization), return on equity or on assets or on net investment, cost containment or reduction, economic value added or any combination thereof. Where applicable, these terms are used as applied under generally accepted accounting principles or in the financial reporting of the Corporation or of its Subsidiaries. To qualify awards as performance-based under Section 162(m), the applicable Business Criterion (or Business Criteria, as the case may be) and specific performance goal or goals ("targets") must be established and approved by the Administrator during the first 90 days of the performance period (and, in the case of performance periods of less than one year, in no event after 25% or more of the performance period has elapsed) and while performance relating to such target(s) remains substantially uncertain within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. Performance targets shall be adjusted to mitigate the unbudgeted impact of material, unusual or nonrecurring gains and losses, accounting changes or other extraordinary events not foreseen at the time the targets were set unless the Administrator provides otherwise at the time of establishing the targets. The applicable performance measurement period may not be less than three months nor more than 10 years.
5.2.2
Performance Goals
.
Business Criteria
 
Grants or awards under this Section 5.2 may be paid in cash or shares of Common Stock or any combination thereof. Grants of Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs to any one participant in any one calendar year shall be subject to the limit set forth in Section 4.2(2). The maximum number of shares of Common Stock which may be delivered pursuant to Performance-Based Awards (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs, and other than cash awards covered by the following sentence) that are granted to any one participant in any one calendar year shall not exceed 800,000 shares, either individually or in the aggregate, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 7.1. In addition, the aggregate amount of compensation to be paid to any one participant in respect of all Performance-Based Awards payable only in cash and not related to shares of Common Stock and granted to that participant in any one calendar year shall not exceed $10,000,000. Awards that are cancelled during the year shall be counted against these limits to the extent required by Section 162(m) of the Code.
5.2.3
Form of Payment; Maximum Performance-Based Award
.
Before any Performance-Based Award under this Section 5.2 (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs) is paid and to the extent required to qualify the award as performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator must certify in writing that the performance target(s) and any other material terms of the Performance-Based Award were in fact timely satisfied.
5.2.4
Certification of Payment
.
The Administrator will have the discretion to determine the restrictions or other limitations of the individual awards granted under this Section 5.2 including the authority to reduce awards, payouts or vesting or to pay no awards, in its sole discretion, if the Administrator preserves such authority at the time of grant by language to this effect in its authorizing resolutions or otherwise.
5.2.5
Reservation of Discretion
.
As required pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, the Administrator's authority to grant new awards that are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code (other than Qualifying Options and Qualifying SARs) shall terminate upon the first meeting of the Corporation's stockholders that occurs in the fifth year following the year in which the Corporation's stockholders approve this restatement of the Plan, subject to any subsequent extension that may be approved by stockholders.
5.2.6
Expiration of Grant Authority
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In no event shall any shares newly-issued by the Corporation be issued for less than the minimum lawful consideration for such shares or for consideration other than consideration permitted by applicable state law. Shares of Common Stock used to satisfy the exercise price of an option shall be valued at their fair market value on the date of exercise. The Corporation will not be obligated to deliver any shares unless and until it receives full payment of the exercise or purchase price therefor and any related withholding obligations under Section 8.5 and any other conditions to exercise or purchase have been satisfied. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the applicable award agreement, the Administrator may at any time eliminate or limit a participant's ability to pay the purchase or exercise price of any award or shares by any method other than cash payment to the Corporation.
 
 
. Unless otherwise expressly provided in (or pursuant to) this Section 5.7, by applicable law and by the award agreement, as the same may be amended, (a) all awards are non-transferable and shall not be subject in any manner to sale, transfer, anticipation, alienation, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge; (b) awards shall be exercised only by the participant; and (c) amounts payable or shares issuable pursuant to any award shall be delivered only to (or for the account of) the participant.
5.7.1
Limitations on Exercise and Transfer
 
. The Administrator may permit awards to be transferred to other persons or entities pursuant to such conditions and procedures, including limitations on subsequent transfers, as the Administrator may, in its sole discretion, establish in writing; provided, however, that any such transfer shall only be permitted if it is made by the participant for estate or tax planning or charitable purposes for no (or nominal) consideration, as determined by the Administrator. Any permitted transfer shall be subject to compliance with applicable federal and state securities laws.
5.7.2
Exceptions
. The exercise and transfer restrictions in Section 5.7.1 shall not apply to:
5.7.3
Further Exceptions to Limits on Transfer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless otherwise expressly provided in the applicable award agreement, upon (or, as may be necessary to effect the adjustment, immediately prior to) any event or transaction described in the preceding paragraph or a sale of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Corporation as an entirety, the Administrator shall equitably and proportionately adjust the performance standards applicable to any then-outstanding performance-based awards to the extent necessary to preserve (but not increase) the level of incentives intended by this Plan and the then-outstanding performance-based awards.
 
It is intended that, if possible, any adjustments contemplated by the preceding two paragraphs be made in a manner that satisfies applicable U.S. legal, tax (including, without limitation and as applicable in the circumstances, Section 424 of the Code, Section 409A of the Code and Section 162(m) of the Code) and accounting (so as to not trigger any charge to earnings with respect to such adjustment) requirements.
Without limiting the generality of Section 3.3, any good faith determination by the Administrator as to whether an adjustment is required in the circumstances pursuant to this Section 7.1, and the extent and nature of any such adjustment, shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
 
 
The Administrator may adopt such valuation methodologies for outstanding awards as it deems reasonable in the event of a cash or property settlement and, in the case of options, SARs or similar rights, but without limitation on other methodologies, may base such settlement solely upon the excess if any of the per share amount payable upon or in respect of such event over the exercise or base price of the award.
Without limiting the generality of Section 3.3, any good faith determination by the Administrator pursuant to its authority under this Section 7.2 shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In any case where a tax is required to be withheld in connection with the delivery of shares of Common Stock under this Plan, the Administrator may in its sole discretion (subject to Section 8.1) require or grant (either at the time of the award or thereafter) to the participant the right to elect, pursuant to such rules and subject to such conditions as the Administrator may establish, that the Corporation reduce the number of shares to be delivered by (or otherwise reacquire) the appropriate number of shares, valued in a consistent manner at their fair market value or at the sales price in accordance with authorized procedures for cashless exercises, necessary to satisfy the minimum applicable withholding obligation on exercise, vesting or payment. In no event shall the shares withheld exceed the minimum whole number of shares required for tax withholding under applicable law. The Corporation may, with the Administrator's approval, accept one or more promissory notes from any Eligible Person in connection with taxes required to be withheld upon the exercise, vesting or payment of any award under this Plan; provided that any such note shall be subject to terms and conditions established by the Administrator and the requirements of applicable law.
 
. This Plan is effective as of September 21, 2004, the date of its approval by the Board (the ""). Unless earlier terminated by the Board, this Plan shall terminate at the close of business on August 6, 2022. After the termination of this Plan either upon such stated expiration date or its earlier termination by the Board, no additional awards may be granted under this Plan, but previously granted awards (and the authority of the Administrator with respect thereto, including the authority to amend such awards) shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions and the terms and conditions of this Plan.
8.6.1
Effective Date
Effective Date
. The Board may, at any time, terminate or, from time to time, amend, modify or suspend this Plan, in whole or in part. No awards may be granted during any period that the Board suspends this Plan.
8.6.2
Board Authorization
. An amendment to this Plan shall be subject to stockholder approval: (a) if stockholder approval for the amendment is then required by applicable law or required under Sections 162, 422 or 424 of the Code to preserve the intended tax consequences of this Plan; (b) if the amendment constitutes a "material revision" of this Plan within the meaning of applicable listing requirements; (c) if stockholder approval for the amendment is otherwise deemed necessary or advisable by the Board; or (d) if the amendment increases any of the share limits set forth in Section 4.2.
8.6.3
Stockholder Approval
. Without limiting any other express authority of the Administrator under (but subject to) the express limits of this Plan, the Administrator by agreement or resolution may waive conditions of or limitations on awards to participants that the Administrator in the prior exercise of its discretion has imposed, without the consent of a participant, and (subject to the requirements of Sections 3.2 and 8.6.5) may make other changes to the terms and conditions of awards. Any amendment or other action that would constitute a repricing of an award is subject to the limitations set forth in Section 3.2.
8.6.4
Amendments to Awards
. No amendment, suspension or termination of this Plan or change of or affecting any outstanding award shall, without written consent of the participant, affect in any manner materially adverse to the participant any rights or benefits of the participant or obligations of the Corporation under any award granted under this Plan prior to the effective date of such change. Changes, settlements and other actions contemplated by Section 7 shall not be deemed to constitute changes or amendments for purposes of this Section 8.6 and shall not require stockholder approval or the consent of the award holder.
8.6.5
Limitations on Amendments to Plan and Awards
 
 
. This Plan, the awards, all documents evidencing awards and all other related documents shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
8.8.1
Choice of Law
. If a court of competent jurisdiction holds any provision invalid and unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Plan shall continue in effect.
8.8.2
Severability
.
8.8.3
Plan Construction
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As amended (Section 4.2) and restated January 21, 2005
As amended (Sections 3.1, 4.2, 4.3, 5.1.1, 5.1.3, 5.1.5, 5.7.2, 8.6.3, 8.6.5) September 22, 2005
As amended (Sections 7.1 and 7.2) November 6, 2008
As amended (Sections 3.2, 4.2, 4.3, 5.1.1, 5.1.3, 5.1.4, 5.2, 5.3, 5.5, 5.7.3, 6.3, 8.5) August 12, 2009
As amended (Sections 4.2, 5.1.4, 5.2, 5.2.2, 5.2.6, 5.5, 5.6, 6.3, 8.6.1 and 8.6.3) August 7, 2012
 


