FILE:WDC/WDC-8K-20121204080227.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Pursuant to the dividend policy of Western Digital Corporation (the "Company"), on December 3, 2012, directors declared a cash dividend for the quarter ending December 28, 2012 of $0.25 per share of Common Stock (the "Cash Dividend"). The Cash Dividend will be paid on December 26, 2012 to the Companys stockholders of record as of December 14, 2012. The amount of future dividends under the Companys dividend policy, and the declaration and payment thereof, will be based upon all relevant factors, including the Companys financial position, results of operations, cash flows, capital requirements and restrictions under the Companys existing credit agreement, and shall be in compliance with applicable law. The Board of Directors of the Company retains the power to modify, suspend or cancel the Companys dividend policy in any manner and at any time as it may deem necessary or appropriate in the future. The press release announcing the dividend for the quarter ending December 28, 2012 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release issued by Western Digital Corporation on December 3, 2012 announcing a cash dividend for the December quarter.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Company contacts: Bob Blair Western Digital Investor Relations 949.672.7834 robert.blair@wdc.com
Steve Shattuck Western Digital Public Relations 949.672.7817 steve.shattuck@wdc.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
:
IRVINE, Calif.Dec. 4, 2012Western Digital Corp. (NASDAQ: WDC) today announced that the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend for the quarter ending December 28, 2012, of $0.25 per share of common stock (the "cash dividend"). The cash dividend will be paid on December 26, 2012, to the company's stockholders of record as of December 14, 2012.
On September 13, 2012, the company indicated that beginning in its current fiscal year 2013 it is targeting a return to shareholders of approximately 50 percent of its free cash flow through a mix of cash dividends and share repurchases. 
The amount of future dividends under the company's dividend policy, and the declaration and payment thereof, will be based upon all relevant factors, including the company's financial position, results of operations, cash flows, capital requirements and restrictions under the company's existing credit agreement, and will be in compliance with applicable law. The Board retains the power to modify, suspend or cancel the company's dividend policy in any manner and at any time as it may deem necessary or appropriate in the future.
About Western Digital
Western Digital Corp. (NASDAQ: WDC), Irvine, Calif., is a global provider of products and services that empower people to create, manage, experience and preserve digital content. Its companies design and manufacture storage devices, networking equipment and home entertainment products under the WD, HGST and G-Technology brands. Visit the Investor section of the company's website (www.westerndigital.com) to access a variety of financial and investor information.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements concerning the company's capital allocation strategy, including its share repurchase and dividend payment plans. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including the impact of continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions; supply and demand conditions in the hard drive industry; uncertainties concerning the availability and cost of commodity materials and specialized product components; actions by competitors; unexpected advances in competing technologies; uncertainties related to the development and introduction of products based on new technologies and expansion into new data storage markets; business conditions and growth in the various hard drive markets; pricing trends and fluctuations in average selling prices; and other risks and uncertainties listed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including the company's recent Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on Nov. 2, 2012, to which your attention is directed. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof, and the company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Western Digital, WD and the WD logo are registered trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. Other marks may be mentioned herein that belong to other companies.


