ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of RR Donnelleys financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements included in Item 15 of Part IV of this Form 10 K. Overview R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company (RR Donnelley or the Company) is the worlds premier full service global print provider and the largest printing company in North America, serving customers in the publishing, healthcare, advertising, retail, telecommunications, technology, financial services, and many other industries. Founded more than 140 years ago, the Company provides solutions in commercial printing, forms and labels, direct mail, financial printing, print fulfillment, business communication outsourcing, logistics, online services, digital photography, color services and content and database management. On November 8, 2003, the Company entered into a combination agreement with Moore Wallace Incorporated (Moore Wallace) providing for each common share of Moore Wallace to be exchanged for 0.63 of a share of common stock of the Company (the Acquisition). The Acquisition was completed on February 27, 2004 (the Acquisition Date), and as such, the Companys results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004 include the results of Moore Wallace from the Acquisition Date. During the second quarter of 2004, management changed the Companys reportable segments to reflect the impact of the Acquisition. The segments were identified based on factors including the nature of products and services, the availability of discrete financial information, and the manner in which the chief operating decision maker regularly assesses information for decision making purposes. During the third quarter of 2004, as a result of the then pending sale of the Companys package logistics business and the shutdown of Momentum Logistics, Inc. (MLI), management revised the Companys reportable segments to eliminate the previously reported Logistics segment and to combine the remaining logistics operations (primarily print logistics) with the Companys Publishing and Retail Services segment. Due to a change in strategic focus subsequent to the Acquisition, in December 2004 the Company committed to sell its Peak Technologies business, which was acquired in the Acquisition and formerly reported in the Forms and Labels segment, and it is accordingly presented as a discontinued operation. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to this reporting structure. The reported segment results reflect the results of Moore Wallace from the Acquisition Date. The current reportable segments are: Publishing and Retail Services. The Publishing and Retail Services segment consists of the following businesses: Magazine, catalog and retail: Provides print services to consumer magazine and catalog publishers as well as retailers. Directories: Serves the global printing needs of yellow and white pages directory publishers. 13 Table of Contents Logistics: Consolidates and delivers Company printed products, as well as products printed by third parties; also provides expedited distribution of time sensitive and secure material, warehousing and fulfillment services. Premedia: Offers conventional and digital photography, creative, color matching, page production and content management services to the advertising, catalog, corporate, magazine, retail and telecommunications markets. Integrated Print Communications. The Integrated Print Communications segment consists primarily of short run and variable print operations in the following lines of business: Book: Provides print services to the consumer, religious, educational and specialty book markets. Direct Mail: Offers services with respect to direct marketing programs including content creation, database management, printing, personalization, finishing and distribution in North America and Europe. Financial Print: Provides information management, content assembly and print services to corporations and their investment banks and law firms as those corporations access the global capital markets; as well as customized communications solutions for investment management, banking, insurance and managed care companies. Business Communications Services: Offers customized, variably imaged business communications, including account statements, customer invoices, insurance policies, enrollment kits, transaction confirmations and database services, primarily to the financial services, telecommunications, insurance and healthcare industries. Short Run Commercial Print: Provides print and print related services to a diversified customer base. Examples of materials produced include annual reports, marketing brochures, catalog and marketing inserts, pharmaceutical inserts and other marketing, retail point of sale and promotional materials and technical publications. Europe: Provides print and print related services to the telecommunications, consumer magazine and catalog markets. Asia: Provides print and print related services to the book, telecommunications and consumer magazine markets. Forms and Labels. The Forms and Labels segment designs and manufactures paper based business forms, labels and printed office products, and provides print related services, including print on demand services, from facilities located in North America and Latin America. The Latin American business also prints magazines, catalogs, books and directories. Corporate. The Corporate segment includes unallocated net earnings of benefit plans (excluding service costs) and unallocated general and administrative expenses including, in part, executive, legal, finance, information technology, human resources and certain facility costs. Outlook The environment is highly competitive in most of our product categories and geographic regions. Competition is based largely on price, quality and servicing the special needs of customers. Industry analysts believe that there is overcapacity in most commercial printing markets. Therefore, competition is intense. RR Donnelley is a large user of paper, supplied to it by its customers or bought by the Company. The cost and supply of certain paper grades used in the manufacturing process will continue to affect the Companys consolidated financial results. Prices for most paper grades increased in 2004. Although the pricing environment 14 Table of Contents is difficult, the Company is continuing its efforts to raise prices to cover a substantial portion of these increases, but there is no assurance that the Company will be successful in passing these increases to customers. Paper prices are expected to increase again in 2005; however, management does not foresee any supply problems. Price increases in 2005 are not expected to have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated annual results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Postal costs are a significant component of our customers cost structures and postal rate changes can influence the number of pieces that the Companys customers are willing to mail. Any resulting decline in print volumes mailed could have an effect on the Companys financial results. The Company does not expect postal rate increases in the United States to occur until 2006. Postal rate increases can enhance the value of the Companys logistics business to its customers, as the Company is able to improve the cost efficiency of mail processing and distribution. The Company is assessing the continued impact of the rise in the price of crude oil on fuel costs. The Company believes it will be able to pass a substantial portion of the increase in fuel prices directly to our customers in order to offset the impact of these increases. We do not believe that the recent increase in crude oil prices has had a material impact on our consolidated annual results of operations, financial condition or cash flows for the year ended 2004. However, the Company cannot predict the impact that price increases in crude oil will have upon either future operating costs or customer demand and the related impact either will have on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Technological changes, including the electronic distribution of documents and data and the on line distribution and hosting of media content, present both risks and opportunities for us. The Companys businesses seek to leverage distinctive capabilities to participate in the rapid growth in electronic communications. The Companys goal remains to help its customers succeed by delivering effective and targeted communications in the right format to the right audiences at the right time. Management believes that with the Companys competitive strengths, including its comprehensive service offerings, technology leadership, depth of management experience, customer relationships and economies of scale, the Company can develop the most valuable solutions for its customers. The Company seeks to countervail these trends by leveraging its position and size, generating continued productivity improvements and enhancing the value the Company delivers to its customers by offering products and services to improve effectiveness and reduce total delivered cost. In addition, the Company implemented a number of strategic initiatives including the restructuring and integration of operations, the expansion of internal cross selling, cost containment and reduction efforts and the disposal of non core businesses. The Company will continue to evaluate ways to reduce its cost structure and improve the productivity of its operations. Future cost reduction initiatives could include the reorganization of operations and the consolidation of facilities. Implementing such initiatives may result in future charges, which may be substantial. Management also reviews its portfolio of businesses on a regular basis to balance appropriate risks and opportunities, to maximize efficiencies and to support the Companys long term strategic growth goals. 15 Table of Contents Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has defined a companys most critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of its financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, the Company has identified the following critical accounting policies and judgments. Although management believes that its estimates and assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon information available when they are made. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue for the majority of its products upon shipment to the customer and the transfer of title and risk of loss. Contracts generally specify F.O.B. shipping point terms. Under agreements with certain customers, custom products may be stored by the Company for future delivery. In these situations, the Company receives a logistics and warehouse management fee for the services it provides. In certain cases, delivery and billing schedules are outlined with the customer and product revenue is recognized when manufacturing is complete, title and risk of loss transfer to the customer, the order is received and there is a reasonable assurance as to collectability. Because the majority of products are customized, product returns are not significant; however, the Company accrues for the estimated amount of customer credits at the time of sale. Billings for third party shipping and handling costs are included in net sales. Revenue from services is recognized as services are performed. Long term product contract revenue is recognized based on the completed contract method or percentage of completion method. The percentage of completion method is used only for contracts that will take longer than three months to complete, where project stages are clearly defined and can be invoiced and where the contract contains enforceable rights by both parties. Revenue related to short term service contracts and contracts that do not meet the percentage of completion criteria is recognized when the contract is completed. Within the Companys financial print business, which serves the global financial services end market, the Company produces highly customized materials such as regulatory S filings, initial public offerings and mutual fund compliance communications, as well as provides EDGAR related services. Revenue is recognized for these services following final delivery of the printed product or upon completion of the service performed. Revenues related to the Companys premedia operations, which include digital content management, photography, color services and page production, are recognized in accordance with the terms of the contract, typically upon completion of the performed service and acceptance by the customer. With respect to the Companys logistics operations, whose operations include the delivery of printed material, the Company recognizes revenue upon completion of the delivery of services. The Company records deferred revenue in situations where the revenue recognition criteria outlined above is not met. Accounts Receivable The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is reviewed for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments for product and services. Provisions are made based upon a specific review of all significant outstanding amounts utilizing information about customer creditworthiness and current economic trends. In addition, provisions are made at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable and the Companys historical collection experience. The Companys estimates of the 16 Table of Contents recoverability of amounts due could change, and additional changes to the allowance could be necessary in the future if a major customers creditworthiness deteriorates, or if actual defaults are higher than the Companys historical experience. Inventories The Company records inventories at the lower of cost or market values. Most of the Companys inventories are valued under the last in first out (LIFO) basis. Changes in the inflation indices may cause an increase or decrease in the value of inventories accounted for under the LIFO costing method. The Company maintains inventory allowances based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for its products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and customer requirements, the Company could be required to increase its inventory allowances. Inventory management remains an area of focus as the Company strives to balance the need to maintain appropriate inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times versus the risk of inventory obsolescence. Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets The Companys methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to acquisitions is based on established valuation techniques that reflect the consideration of a number of factors including valuations performed by third party appraisers. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the net of the amounts assigned to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The Company performs goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis or more frequently in certain circumstances, if necessary. The Company compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the fair value, the Company would perform an additional fair value measurement calculation to determine the impairment loss, which would be charged to operations. The Company evaluates the recoverability of long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and certain identifiable intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company performs indefinite lived impairment tests on an annual basis or more frequently in certain circumstances, if necessary. Factors considered important which could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the assets or the strategy for the overall business, significant decrease in the market value of the assets and significant negative industry or economic trends. When the Company determines that the carrying amount of long lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the indicators, the assets are assessed for impairment based on the estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recorded for the excess of the assets carrying amount over its fair value. The goodwill and long lived asset impairment assessments are generally determined based on fair value techniques, including determining the estimated future discounted cash flows over the remaining useful life of the asset using a discount rate determined by management to be commensurate with the risk inherent in the current business model. The assumptions supporting the cash flows, including discount rates, are determined using the best estimates as of the date of the impairment review. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, the Company might be required to record impairment charges for the assets. Certain investments in affordable housing, which are included in other noncurrent assets, are recorded at cost, as adjusted for the Companys share of any declines in the fair value of the underlying properties that are deemed to be other than temporary. The Companys basis for determining fair value of the underlying properties requires applying managements judgment using a significant number of estimates. Management derives its estimates of fair value using remaining future tax credits and tax deductions to be realized and expected residual values upon 17 Table of Contents sale or disposition of the Companys ownership interests. Expected residual values are developed from industry assumptions and cash flow projections provided by the underlying partnerships and include certain assumptions with respect to operating costs, debt levels and certain market data related to the properties such as assumed vacancy rates. Should these assumptions differ from actual results in the future, the Company might be required to further write down its carrying value of these investments. Commitments and Contingencies The Company is subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to environmental, employment and other matters, as well as preference claims related to amounts received from customers prior to their seeking bankruptcy protection. Periodically, the Company reviews the status of each significant matter and assesses potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, the Company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the Company reassesses the potential liability related to pending claims and might revise its estimates. Restructuring The Company records restructuring charges when management, with the appropriate level of authority, commits and approves the elimination of certain duplicative functions and the closure of certain facilities in order to reduce the Companys overall cost structure. Certain restructuring costs were recognized as a cost of the Acquisition because they were contemplated at the time of the Acquisition and were, therefore, included in the purchase price allocation. These restructuring charges and related liabilities are based on contractual obligations and managements best estimates at the time the charges are recorded. The restructuring liabilities might change in future periods based on several factors that could differ from original estimates and assumptions. These include, but are not limited to: contract settlements on terms different than originally expected; ability to sublease properties based on market conditions at rates or on timelines different than originally estimated; breach of severance agreements; and change to original plans as a result of mergers or acquisitions. Such changes might result in a potential reversal of or addition to restructuring charges that could affect amounts reported in the consolidated statements of operations of future periods. Accounting for Income Taxes Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against the deferred tax assets. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Additionally, the Companys tax returns are subject to audit by various domestic and foreign tax authorities. The Company accrues for tax contingencies, which it believes are probable and estimable. Although management believes that its estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome will not be materially different from that which is reflected in the Companys historical income tax provisions and accruals. The Company has recorded deferred tax assets related to domestic and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards. Limitations on the utilization of these tax assets generally apply; accordingly, management has provided a valuation allowance to reduce certain of these deferred tax assets as management has concluded that, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. If actual results differ from these estimates, or the estimates are adjusted in future periods, adjustments to the valuation allowance might need to be recorded. The Company has reviewed the provision in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, relating to the repatriation of foreign earnings, and based on our analysis of our business needs and strategy the Company has not 18 Table of Contents determined at this time that any funds will be repatriated and accordingly no provision for unremitted earnings is provided. Pension and Postretirement Plans The Company records annual amounts relating to its pension and postretirement plans based on calculations, which include various actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, assumed rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. The Company reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate to do so. The effect of modifications is generally deferred and amortized over future periods. The Company believes that the assumptions utilized in recording its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on its experience, market conditions and input from its actuaries. The pension and postretirement obligations are measured as of September 30 for all years presented. The Company employs a total return investment approach for its pension and postretirement benefit plans whereby a mix of equities and fixed income investments are used to maximize the long term return of pension and postretirement plan assets. The intent of this strategy is to minimize plan expenses by outperforming plan liabilities over the long run. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status, and corporate financial condition. The investment portfolios contain a diversified blend of equity and fixed income investments. Furthermore, equity investments are diversified across geography and market capitalization through investments in U.S. large capitalization stocks, U.S. small capitalization stocks and international securities. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through annual liability measurements, periodic asset/liability studies and quarterly investment portfolio reviews. The expected long term rate of return for plan assets is based upon many factors including expected asset allocations, historical asset returns, current and expected future market conditions, risk and active management premiums. The prospective target asset allocation percentage for both the pension and postretirement plans is approximately 75% for equity securities and approximately 25% for fixed income and other securities. The expected return on plan assets assumption at September 30, 2004 was 8.5% for the Companys pension plans and 8.0% for the Companys funded postretirement plan. The discount rate used at September 30, 2004 to measure both the pension and postretirement benefit obligations was 6.0%. A one percentage point decrease in the discount rate at September 30, 2004 would increase the pension plans accumulated benefit obligation by approximately $330.0 million. The health care cost trend rates used in valuing the Companys postretirement benefit obligation are established based upon actual health care cost trends and consultation with our actuaries and benefit providers. At September 30, 2004, the current weighted average healthcare trend rate assumption was 10.2% for pre Age 65 participants and 11.9% for post Age 65 participants. The current trend rate gradually decreases to an ultimate trend rate of 6.0%. A one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation $ 21.7 Aggregate of the service and interest cost components net postretirement benefit cost 1.8 19 Table of Contents A one percentage point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation $ (20.1 ) Aggregate of the service and interest cost components net postretirement benefit cost (1.7 ) Other Matters Other than non cancelable operating lease commitments, the Company does not have off balance sheet arrangements, financings, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons, also known as special purpose entities. See Note 8, Investments, to the consolidated financial statements related to the Companys investments in affordable housing properties. The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its majority owned subsidiaries. Financial Review In the financial review that follows, the Company discusses its consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and certain other information. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and related notes that begin on page F 1. 20 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 The following table shows net sales and income (loss) from continuing operations for each of the Companys reportable segments: Net Sales Income (Loss) fromContinuing Operations Years Ended December 31, Years EndedDecember 31, 2004 (1) 2003 2004 (1) 2003 (in millions) Publishing and Retail Services $ 2,811.8 $ 2,608.8 $ 306.7 $ 311.4 Integrated Print Communications 2,878.3 1,441.0 326.8 120.6 Forms and Labels 1,466.3 132.8 52.1 (21.7 ) Total operating segments 7,156.4 4,182.6 685.6 410.3 Corporate (226.4 ) (117.6 ) Total continuing operations $ 7,156.4 $ 4,182.6 $ 459.2 $ 292.7 (1) Reflects Moore Wallace results from the Acquisition Date. Consolidated Net sales for 2004 increased $2,973.8 million, or 71.1% to $7,156.4 million versus the prior year. The increase was primarily due to the Acquisition ($2,669.6 million), and increased volumes in the Integrated Print Communications and Publishing and Retail Services segments. Improved volumes in the Integrated Print Communications segment were attributable to the financial print business, which benefited from improved capital market transaction levels in the U.S. and international markets, and improved sales in the education book market. While management believes that internal cross selling efforts will result in increased volume within current markets as the Company leverages its expanded product portfolio following the Acquisition, printing industry excess capacity, pricing pressures and electronic substitution will continue to adversely impact sales of certain products and services of the Company. Cost of sales increased $2,184.0 million to $5,269.6 million for 2004 versus the prior year, primarily due to the Acquisition ($1,957.4 million). Acquisition and integration costs included in cost of sales related to a charge associated with fair value adjustments for inventory and backlog ($66.9 million) and $5.3 million primarily related to equipment transfers and facility reconfigurations. These increases were partially offset by benefits achieved through restructuring and cost reduction initiatives, incremental procurement savings, and higher by product recoveries of $13.3 million, that are recognized as a reduction of cost of sales. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $413.2 million versus the prior year, to $934.7 million for 2004, primarily due to the Acquisition ($437.9 million). Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated net sales increased to 13.1% in 2004 from 12.5% in 2003. This increase was primarily due to provisions of $27.3 million related to litigation, insurance, termination benefits and sales and use taxes, as well as a $31.3 million increase in certain employee incentive related costs for 2004 versus the prior year. The Company incurred $7.5 million in third party costs in 2004 associated with Sarbanes Oxley Act compliance for auditor attestation and Company readiness. Also included in 2004 were $8.6 million of integration charges related to the Acquisition. In addition, the Company recognized $34.2 million of pension and postretirement expense in 2004 versus $4.2 million of expense in 2003 due to changes in actuarial benefit assumptions and the inclusion of benefit obligations acquired in the Acquisition. Pension and postretirement expense is expected to decrease in 2005 primarily as a result of plan amendments and increased plan assets. Management anticipates that savings from restructuring activities related to the Acquisition and other cost containment efforts will favorably impact the selling, general and administrative expense margin in 2005. These savings will likely be partially offset by future integration related expenses. 21 Table of Contents During 2004, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $107.4 million. These charges included $85.0 million for workforce reduction costs (approximately 2,174 positions) primarily related to the elimination of duplicative administrative functions resulting from the Acquisition and the reorganization of certain operating activities, as well as lease exit costs. For 2004, the Company recorded impairment charges of $22.4 million. The impairment charges primarily included $13.1 million for the abandonment of certain Publishing and Retail Services related enterprise software projects and other assets, $2.1 million for the write down of a Publishing and Retail Services customer contract and $7.2 million related to software and other assets in the Forms and Labels and Integrated Print Communications segments. Additional restructuring charges are likely in 2005, as the Company eliminates duplicative functions, relocates the global headquarters within the Chicago area and continues to rationalize its manufacturing, sales and administrative platforms as a result of the Acquisition and other initiatives. During 2003, the Company recorded $12.5 million of net restructuring and impairment charges, primarily related to workforce reductions (approximately 279 positions), the relocation of employees and equipment from closed facilities and the curtailment of the Companys postretirement benefit plan. Depreciation and amortization increased $115.2 million to $385.5 million for 2004 compared to 2003, which was more than accounted for by the Acquisition. Acquisition related depreciation and amortization included $36.7 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, patents and covenants not to compete. Income from continuing operations for 2004 increased $166.5 million, or 56.9%, versus the prior year to $459.2 million. The increase was primarily due to the Acquisition and improved operating results in 2004, which more than offset a $66.9 million adjustment for the fair value of inventory and backlog from the Acquisition, $107.4 million of net restructuring and impairment charges ($12.5 million in 2003), higher pension and post retirement expenses and $13.9 million of total integration related charges in 2004. Interest expense, net, increased by $34.5 million for 2004 versus 2003, primarily due to the $1.0 billion of debt assumed in conjunction with the Acquisition. Investment and other income (expense), net, for 2004 was $16.5 million of expense versus $12.9 million of expense for 2003. The change was due to a higher write down of affordable housing investments ($29.3 million in 2004 versus $23.3 million in 2003) that was partially offset by higher net gains on the disposals of investments in 2004 (which included a $14.3 million gain on an investment in Latin America). The write downs of affordable housing investments in 2004 and 2003 reflected declines in the estimated fair market values of the Companys affordable housing investments. For 2004, the difference between the effective tax rate and the statutory tax rate primarily relates to the benefit associated with the reversal of tax contingencies upon the expiration of certain state statutory limitations ($30.5 million), the reversal of a non U.S. valuation allowance ($7.1 million) and affordable housing credits ($8.8 million). Net earnings from continuing operations for 2004 increased by $76.4 million versus the prior year to $264.9 million, or $1.30 per diluted share. For 2003, net earnings from continuing operations were $188.5 million, or $1.65 per diluted share. Net earnings per share in 2004 reflect the impact of the 102.1 million shares issued in conjunction with the Acquisition. Net earnings for 2004 also reflect the incremental results of the Acquisition and improved operating results, which more than offset the unfavorable impact of the fair value adjustment of inventory and backlog and net restructuring and impairment and integration charges. Net loss from discontinued operations was $80.0 million for 2004 compared to a net loss of $12.0 million in 2003. The net loss for 2004 was primarily due to net restructuring and impairment charges of $109.1 million. During the first quarter of 2004, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $13.9 million for the goodwill, intangibles and fixed assets of MLI, as the carrying value of the assets exceeded the future cash flows expected to 22 Table of Contents be generated by the assets. During the second quarter of 2004, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $89.1 million in conjunction with the then pending disposition of its package logistics business, as the fair value was less than the carrying amount of the net assets. Fair value was determined by using managements best estimate of the amounts for which the net assets could be sold in the marketplace. The results of discontinued operations for 2004 reflected restructuring charges of $0.5 million recorded prior to the decision to dispose of the package logistics business and $4.7 million for the shutdown of MLI. These restructuring charges included workforce reduction (750 employees) and lease exit costs. Also included in the net loss from discontinued operations was a net loss of $10.1 million related to the Companys Peak Technologies business, which included restructuring charges of $0.9 million for workforce reductions (57 employees). For 2004, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of $6.6 million, net of taxes of $4.3 million, reflecting the adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. The charge reflects the difference between the carrying amount of the Companys investments in certain partnerships related to affordable housing and the underlying carrying values of the partnerships upon consolidating these entities into the Companys financial statements. Management does not believe that the consolidation of these partnerships will have an ongoing material effect on the Companys consolidated results of operations or financial position. 23 Table of Contents Publishing and Retail Services The following table summarizes net sales, income from continuing operations and significant items affecting comparability within the Publishing and Retail Services segment: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 (in millions) Net sales $ 2,811.8 $ 2,608.8 Income from continuing operations $ 306.7 $ 311.4 Included in income from continuing operations: Restructuring and impairment charges net $ 40.3 $ 2.8 Integration charges $ 0.4 $ Net sales for the Publishing and Retail Services segment for 2004 were $2,811.8 million, an increase of $203.0 million, or 7.8%, compared to 2003, primarily due to the Acquisition ($75.2 million) and volume increases across all businesses in the segment. Net sales in the magazine, catalog and retail business increased in 2004 versus the prior year due to volume increases related to major customers and increased paper prices that were partially offset by industry pricing pressures. Net sales in the directories business for 2004 increased versus the prior year due to volume improvements that more than offset pricing pressures. The net sales for the premedia business benefited from higher volumes from both existing Publishing and Retail Services and third party customers. Net sales for the logistics business reflected increased print logistics and expedited service volumes due to growth in volume from existing Publishing and Retail Services and third party customers. Income from continuing operations for the Publishing and Retail Services segment for 2004 declined $4.7 million, or 1.5%, to $306.7 million compared to the prior year due to increased restructuring and impairment charges and increased employee related incentive costs. Net restructuring charges of $25.1 million and impairment charges of $15.2 million in 2004 compared to total restructuring and impairment charges of $2.8 million in 2003. The 2004 restructuring charges primarily related to employee terminations as the Company continued to focus on reducing its operating cost structure. The 2004 impairment charge primarily included $13.1 million for the abandonment of certain enterprise software projects and other assets and $2.1 million for the write down of a customer contract. These charges were partially offset by the improved results of the logistics business, which benefited from the Acquisition ($19.3 million); and improved volumes, productivity, by product recoveries, cost containment and incremental procurement savings. Operating results for 2005 are expected to further benefit from the restructuring actions and cost reduction initiatives implemented during 2004. Integrated Print Communications The following table summarizes net sales, income from continuing operations and significant items affecting comparability within the Integrated Print Communications segment: Years EndedDecember 31, 2004 2003 (in millions) Net sales $ 2,878.3 $ 1,441.0 Income from continuing operations $ 326.8 $ 120.6 Included in income from continuing operations: Restructuring and impairment charges net $ 22.3 $ 5.3 Fair market value adjustment for inventory and backlog related to the Acquisition $ 17.5 $ Integration charges $ 3.6 $ Insurance recovery related to 9/11 $ $ (2.0 ) Amortization of purchased intangibles related to the Acquisition $ 19.3 $ 24 Table of Contents Net sales for the Integrated Print Communications segment increased by $1,437.3 million to $2,878.3 million in 2004 compared to the prior year primarily due to the Acquisition ($1,273.4 million) and increased financial print sales resulting from improved global capital markets and stable customized communications solutions business activity. The international operations in the segment, which benefited from improved volumes and favorable currency variances also contributed to the sales increase. The book business benefited from improved sales in the educational book market in the second half of 2004 that are expected to continue to favorably impact results in 2005. Because the Integrated Print Communications segments results only reflect the acquired operations of Moore Wallace subsequent to the Acquisition Date, management believes that the following comments related to the revenue trends affecting the acquired operations in the segment for 2004 versus the results for 2003 are relevant. Short run commercial print results reflected the continued pressures from price erosion related to excess capacity in the industry. Increased volumes reflected increased cross selling activities into the commercial print facilities. Growth in the outsourcing business was attributable to new customer volumes and increased activity across most industry sectors served. These increases more than offset pricing pressure and a slowdown in the mortgage refinancing market. Declines in the integrated direct mail businesses related to facility closures and pricing and volume pressures at existing customers that were partially offset by new customer and new program growth. Income from continuing operations for the Integrated Print Communications segment for 2004 increased $206.2 million to $326.8 million versus 2003, due to the Acquisition ($131.9 million), volume increases, improved by product recoveries and benefits achieved from prior year restructuring actions and other cost reduction efforts. Income from continuing operations for 2004 included $22.3 million of net restructuring and impairment charges across the book, financial print and direct mail businesses, $17.5 million of charges for the fair market value adjustment for inventory and backlog, $19.3 million of amortization of purchased intangibles and $3.6 million of integration costs related to the Acquisition. The 2003 income from continuing operations included $5.3 million of restructuring and impairment charges and a $2.0 million insurance recovery related to September 11, 2001. Operating results for 2005 are expected to benefit from the restructuring actions and cost reduction initiatives implemented during 2004. Forms and Labels The following table summarizes net sales, income (loss) from continuing operations and significant items affecting comparability within the Forms and Labels segment: Years EndedDecember 31, 2004 2003 (in millions) Net sales $ 1,466.3 $ 132.8 Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 52.1 $ (21.7 ) Included in income (loss) from continuing operations: Restructuring and impairment charges net $ 25.1 $ 4.2 Fair market value adjustment for inventory and backlog related to the Acquisition $ 49.4 $ Integration charges $ 3.1 $ Amortization of purchased intangibles related to the Acquisition $ 17.4 $ Net sales for 2004 increased $1,333.5 million to $1,466.3 million primarily due to the Acquisition ($1,321.0 million). Because the Forms and Labels segment results primarily reflect the acquired operations of Moore Wallace subsequent to the Acquisition Date, management believes that the following comments in relation to the revenue trends affecting net sales in the Forms and Labels segment for 2004 versus 2003 are relevant. The forms and labels industry is in secular decline, but the pace of this decline remains difficult to predict. The business 25 Table of Contents continued to be adversely affected by volume declines attributable to continuing industry wide trends of electronic substitution for higher margin multi part and other long run forms products and price competition related to excess capacity in the industry. In response to these trends, the Company has continued to focus on lowering its manufacturing and selling costs, while exploring new market opportunities. Paper prices increased in 2004 and further increases are expected in 2005. Although the pricing environment is difficult, the Company is continuing its efforts to raise prices to cover a substantial portion of any increases, but there is no assurance that the Company will be successful. Income from continuing operations for 2004 of $52.1 million included $49.4 million of charges for the fair market value adjustment for inventory and backlog, $17.4 million of amortization of purchased intangibles and $3.1 million of integration costs related to the Acquisition. In addition, the 2004 operating results included $25.1 million of net restructuring and impairment charges related to the reorganization of the segment subsequent to the Acquisition. In addition to $4.2 million of restructuring and impairment charges, the 2003 results include a provision for bad debts of $6.3 million. Management believes that due to continued volume declines, price and margin erosion at existing customers and excess capacity in the industry, future restructuring initiatives might continue to result in charges which might be significant and might unfavorably impact the financial results of the Forms and Labels segment in 2005. Corporate Corporate operating expenses for 2004 increased $108.8 million to $226.4 million versus the same period in 2003. The increase is primarily due to the Acquisition, restructuring charges of $19.7 million primarily for workforce reductions, integration charges of $6.8 million, provisions for litigation, insurance, termination benefits and sales and use taxes of $27.3 million and lower benefit plan earnings. In addition, 2004 included increased employee related incentive costs ($20.1 million) and incremental third party costs associated with Sarbanes Oxley Act compliance ($7.5 million). These increases were partially offset by benefits achieved through restructuring actions and cost containment initiatives taken during the year. Management expects to incur future restructuring charges as the Company continues to eliminate duplicative functions and to consolidate its corporate administrative facilities, including the relocation of the global headquarters within the Chicago area, pursuant to the Acquisition. These charges might be significant and might unfavorably impact the financial results during the next several quarters while the Company continues to lower its underlying administrative cost structure. 26 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 The following table shows net sales and income (loss) from continuing operations for each of the Companys segments: Net Sales Income (Loss) fromContinuing Operations Years EndedDecember 31, Years EndedDecember 31, 2003 2002 2003 2002 (in millions) Publishing and Retail Services $ 2,608.8 $ 2,667.0 $ 311.4 $ 272.2 Integrated Print Communications 1,441.0 1,437.8 120.6 114.2 Forms and Labels 132.8 142.4 (21.7 ) (9.2 ) Total operating segments 4,182.6 4,247.2 410.3 377.2 Corporate (117.6 ) (132.0 ) Total continuing operations $ 4,182.6 $ 4,247.2 $ 292.7 $ 245.2 Consolidated Consolidated net sales decreased $64.6 million, or 1.5%, to $4,182.6 million in 2003, primarily due to a $58.2 million decline in net sales in the Publishing and Retail Services segment. Additional declines in both the book and direct mail businesses in the Integrated Print Communications segment were offset by significant sales increases in the European and Asian operations, which benefited from volume growth and favorable foreign currency exchange rate variances. Cost of sales decreased $45.5 million to $3,085.6 million for 2003 versus the prior year, which was primarily due to lower Publishing and Retail Services sales. In 2003, the Company recognized a reduction in cost of materials of $47.8 million from by product recoveries, compared with a reduction of $46.1 million in 2002. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 73.8% in 2003, compared with 73.7% in 2002. The Publishing and Retail Services segments cost of sales was negatively impacted in 2003 primarily by unfavorable work mix, partially offset by higher volume and the impact of restructuring savings and productivity initiatives. Selling and administrative expenses increased $24.5 million to $521.5 million in 2003. Compared with 2002, a higher provision for doubtful accounts ($7.7 million, of which $5.2 million related to Latin America), increased costs to support sales growth in Europe ($7.3 million), lower benefit plan earnings ($3.5 million), and higher volume based sales incentives (commissions) were partially offset by lower management incentive compensation ($1.0 million) and restructuring related savings and cost reduction initiatives. Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales was 12.5% in 2003, compared with 11.7% in 2002. During 2003, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $12.5 million, which compared to $87.4 million in 2002. Restructuring charges of $8.8 million included workforce reduction costs (approximately 279 positions) and other charges, related to exit activities. Impairment charges of $3.7 million primarily related to the closure of a directory plant in Chile within the Forms and Labels segment. Depreciation and amortization decreased $16.2 million to $270.3 million for 2003 compared to the prior year due primarily to prior year asset impairments and lower capital expenditures. Income from continuing operations for 2003 increased $47.5 million versus the prior year to $292.7 million. The increase was primarily due to the lower net restructuring and impairment charges and benefits achieved from the prior year restructuring actions that offset price deterioration and unfavorable work mix. 27 Table of Contents Interest expense, net, decreased by $11.3 million in 2003, primarily due to lower effective interest rates and lower average borrowings as compared with the prior year. Investment and other income (expense), net, for 2003 was $12.9 million of expense, which compared to $15.1 million of expense in 2002. The primary components of investment and other income (expense), net, in 2003 were affordable housing write downs ($23.3 million), partially offset by gain on sale of businesses and investments ($5.5 million) and other miscellaneous income ($4.9 million). The primary components of investment and other income (expense), net, in 2002 were as follows: affordable housing write downs ($26.0 million), partially offset by gains on sales of businesses and investments ($6.4 million) and other miscellaneous income ($4.5 million). The lower 2003 effective tax rate in 2003 reflected a tax benefit of $45.8 million, including a non cash benefit of $39.9 million due to favorable resolution of IRS audits for 1996 through 1999. In addition, the Company recorded a $5.9 million receivable for refundable income taxes in Latin America due to the utilization of tax loss carrybacks. The 2002 effective tax rate included a $30.0 million tax benefit related to our settlement with the IRS surrounding our COLI program. Net earnings from continuing operations for 2003 increased by $51.7 million versus the same period in the prior year to $188.5 million, or $1.65 per diluted share. For 2002, net earnings from continuing operations were $136.8 million, or $1.19 per diluted share. Net loss from discontinued operations was $12.0 million in 2003, compared to income from discontinued operations of $5.4 million in 2002. The net loss from discontinued operations in 2003 included restructuring and impairment charges of $4.2 million. Publishing and Retail Services The following table summarizes net sales, income from continuing operations and significant items affecting comparability within the Publishing and Retail Services segment: Years EndedDecember 31, 2003 2002 (in millions) Net sales $ 2,608.8 $ 2,667.0 Income from continuing operations $ 311.4 $ 272.2 Included in income from continuing operations: Restructuring and impairment charges net $ 2.8 $ 53.3 Net sales for 2003 for the Publishing and Retail Services segment decreased $58.2 million, or 2.2%, to $2,608.8 million. Decreased net sales for the magazine, catalog and retail business primarily reflected price deterioration and a mix shift to work with a lower price per unit, partially offset by higher volume and improved print logistics sales. The economic slowdown that began in 2000 generated excess industry capacity from reduced demand levels and higher customer bankruptcies resulting in increased competition and pricing pressures. Lower contract prices on renewals continued to cycle through the 2003 results. The net sales decline in the premedia business was driven by these same factors. Net sales for the directories business decreased primarily due to an increase in customer furnished paper and lower average prices, partially offset by higher volume. The net sales increase in the logistics business was driven by higher volumes from both print related operations in the segment and from third parties for which the Company does not provide printing services. Income from continuing operations for 2003 for the Publishing and Retail Services segment increased $39.2 million, or 14.4%, from 2002, due primarily to reduced net restructuring and impairment charges for 2003 of $2.8 million, compared to $53.3 million in 2002. The negative impact on earnings due to price 28 Table of Contents deterioration and a mix shift to lower margin work as noted above was only partially offset by higher volumes in 2003 and the impact of productivity initiatives and savings related to restructuring actions. Integrated Print Communications The following table summarizes net sales, income from continuing operations and significant items affecting comparability within the Integrated Print Communications segment: Years EndedDecember 31, 2003 2002 (in millions) Net sales $ 1,441.0 $ 1,437.8 Income from continuing operations $ 120.6 $ 114.2 Included in income from continuing operations: Restructuring and impairment charges net $ 5.3 $ 14.5 Insurance recovery related to 9/11 $ (2.0 ) $ (1.6 ) Net sales for 2003 in the Integrated Print Communications segment increased $3.2 million, or 0.2%, compared to the prior year due to stronger results in the European and Asian operations that offset declines in the book and direct mail businesses. International net sales in the segment were up $69.4 million, or 39.8%, from the prior year, driven by increases in Europe due to volume growth and favorable foreign currency exchange rates, as well as volume growth in Asia. Net sales of the book business were down due to lower volumes including fewer reprint orders, lower average prices and a less favorable mix of more soft cover books with a lower price per unit and fewer case bound books. The 2003 net sales for direct mail were down significantly from the prior year, due to lower volume. The 2003 net sales for the financial print businesses were flat due to a decrease in customized communications solutions results that was mostly offset by an increase in capital markets net sales. The 2003 decline in net sales from customized communication solutions was primarily due to lower net sales from investor communications (e.g., prospectuses, annual and semi annual mutual funds statements), which reflected contraction in the mutual fund market and one large non recurring deal in 2002. The increase in capital markets net sales between years was driven by a rebound within the domestic capital markets in the second half of 2003 following a period of economic slowdown, and higher fourth quarter 2003 international net sales. Domestic capital markets net sales in 2003 were essentially flat, which reflected higher compliance filings (e.g., SEC periodic reports and annual meeting proxy statements), mostly offset by lower transactional activity in the first half of the year (e.g., S filings, including initial public offerings, secondary offerings and mergers and acquisitions). Income from continuing operations for 2003 in the Integrated Print Communications segment increased $6.4 million, or 5.6%, compared to the prior year due to lower restructuring and impairment charges and improved results in the European and financial businesses that more than offset declines in Asia and the book business. Included in 2003 income from continuing operations were net restructuring and impairment charges of $5.3 million, compared to $14.5 million in 2002. Income from continuing operations for the financial print business in 2003 increased significantly from a loss in 2002 that included restructuring actions related to the closure of several print facilities and service centers, and related workforce reductions. Income from continuing operations in the financial print business benefited from these restructuring actions and other cost reduction initiatives that included savings from the outsourcing of certain composition related services offshore. In 2003, the financial print business operating margins also reflected a favorable mix change between years due to increased capital markets activity in 2003, which carries higher operating margins than customized communications solutions. The European operations benefited from higher volumes and favorable foreign currency exchange rates. The loss from the Asian operations was higher than the prior year primarily due to additional start up costs of a plant in Shanghai, China. The loss from operations for direct mail in 2003 was higher than the prior year, primarily due to lower volume, partially offset by savings from restructuring actions. 29 Table of Contents Forms and Labels The following table summarizes net sales, income (loss) from continuing operations and significant items affecting comparability within the Forms and Labels segment: Years EndedDecember 31, 2003 2002 (in millions) Net sales $ 132.8 $ 142.4 Income (loss) from continuing operations $ (21.7 ) $ (9.2 ) Included in income (loss) from continuing operations: Restructuring and impairment charges net $ 4.2 $ 3.4 The net sales for 2003 in the Forms and Labels segment decreased $9.6 million, or 6.7% compared to the prior year primarily due to lower volumes. The loss from the Latin American operations in 2003 of $21.7 million was $12.5 million greater than the prior year loss and related primarily to lower volume and an incremental $5.2 million provision for doubtful accounts. Corporate Corporate operating expenses decreased $14.4 million, or 10.9%, to $117.6 million in 2003. The decrease is primarily due to lower restructuring and impairment charges ($16.0 million); lower provision for litigation ($16.0 million); lower management incentive compensation ($9.1 million); partially offset by lower benefit plan earnings (excluding service costs allocated to the segments) ($17.5 million); a higher LIFO provision ($5.6 million); and higher miscellaneous expenses ($3.6 million). Restructuring, Acquisition and Other Charges Throughout 2004, management approved and initiated various plans to restructure the operations of the Company predominantly in connection with the Acquisition. These included plans to eliminate certain duplicative functions and vacate redundant facilities in order to reduce the Companys combined cost structure. As a result, the Company recorded $85.0 million of net restructuring charges that are included in the 2004 results of operations. Additionally, for 2004, the Company recorded $24.7 million of restructuring costs to exit certain operations and activities of Moore Wallace, which were contemplated at the time of the Acquisition and therefore the related restructuring costs were capitalized as a cost of the Acquisition. For 2004, the Company recorded impairment charges of $22.4 million. The impairment charges included $13.1 million for the abandonment of certain Publishing and Retail Services related enterprise software projects and other assets and $2.1 million for the write down of a Publishing and Retail Services customer contract. Additional impairment charges related to software and other assets in the Forms and Labels ($4.4 million) and Integrated Print Communications ($2.8 million) segments. During 2003, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $12.5 million. The 2003 charges included costs associated with workforce reductions, as well as period costs associated with defined exit activities from previously announced restructuring plans. Included were impairment charges of $3.7 million primarily related to the closure of a directory plant in Chile ($3.2 million). During 2002, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $87.4 million. The 2002 charge included $15.4 million related to the shutdown of a Berea, Ohio plant which produced short run specialty magazines and was included within the Publishing and Retail Services segment. The total 2002 charge was comprised of the following: employee termination benefits related to additional workforce reductions ($36.1 million); a curtailment loss related to postretirement benefit plans ($8.4 million); exit costs related to closed facilities ($5.2 million); relocation costs for defined exit activities which were expensed as incurred ($22.3 million) and asset impairments to reduce the carrying values of assets held for disposal to fair value ($15.4 million). Acquisition and integration costs of $80.8 million were recorded in 2004. The acquisition and integration costs recorded in cost of sales of $72.2 million related to fair value adjustments for inventory and backlog ($66.9 30 Table of Contents million) as well as to equipment transfers from vacated facilities, facility reconfiguration due to consolidations, training and travel, in the Forms and Labels ($1.6 million), Integrated Print Communications ($3.5 million), and Publishing and Retail Services ($0.2 million) segments. Selling, general and administrative expenses included acquisition and integration costs of $8.6 million for consulting expenses associated with system integration and facility reconfiguration expenses due to office consolidations, in the Forms and Labels ($1.5 million), Integrated Print Communications ($0.1 million), Publishing and Retail Services ($0.2 million) and Corporate ($6.8 million) segments. In 2005, the Company expects to realize the cost savings associated with the aforementioned restructuring plans primarily through reduced employee and facility costs. The Company anticipates that payments associated with employee terminations ($35.1 million) related to its various restructuring programs will be substantially complete by the second quarter of 2005. The Company anticipates that payments associated with lease exit costs ($11.6 million) will be substantially complete by 2011. Market conditions and the Companys ability to sublease these properties could affect the ultimate charge and cash payments related to these lease obligations. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES LIQUIDITY The Company generated increased cash flows from operating activities due to the Acquisition and the benefits resulting from restructuring programs. Additional liquidity was also due to improved control over discretionary capital spending and other costs. The Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to support the ongoing activities of the businesses and to invest in future growth to create value for its shareholders. This includes, among other things, upgrading the long run print platform to enable the Company to better serve customers in a more cost effective manner, making other capital expenditures as necessary and advisable, paying interest on the Companys debt obligations, making acquisitions, completing its restructuring programs and funding future dividend payments that may be approved by the board of directors. Cash Flows From Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations for 2004 was $759.4 million, compared to net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations of $375.7 million for 2003. The change was primarily due to the inclusion of the Moore Wallace operations from the Acquisition Date and the benefits achieved as a result of the Companys restructuring programs. Cash Flows From Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities from continuing operations for 2004 was $119.5 million versus a use of cash of $158.6 million in 2003. The improvement was primarily due to net cash acquired from the Acquisition of $66.1 million, proceeds of $79.6 million from sales of investments in Latin America and assets held for sale, partially offset by an increase in capital expenditures of $72.4 million. The increase in capital spending in 2004 was primarily due to investments made to create a more efficient print platform to serve magazine, catalog and retail customers. Total capital expenditures in 2005 are expected to be approximately $450.0 million and will primarily focus on increasing capacity for the Publishing and Retail Services segment largely in response to new customer contracts and contract renewals. Cash Flows From Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities from continuing operations for 2004 was $191.8 million compared to $170.3 million for the prior year. This increase primarily relates to the cash dividends paid on the incremental shares issued in conjunction with the Acquisition and the repayment of short term debt, partially offset by the cash proceeds received from the exercise of stock options. On December 16, 2004, the Company announced that its board of directors authorized a share repurchase plan of up to $300.0 million of the Companys common stock based on market conditions through a variety of methods, including open market purchases, block transactions, accelerated repurchase arrangements or private transactions. Repurchases under this program may be made at any time prior to December 31, 2006 and might be discontinued at any time. 31 Table of Contents As previously disclosed in the Companys Current Report on Form 8 K filed on January 6, 2005, under this share repurchase program, the Company repurchased approximately 6.0 million shares of its common stock from affiliates of GSC Partners for $200.0 million, which represented a 5% discount to the NYSE closing price of the Companys common stock on December 31, 2004. Cash Flows From Discontinued Operations Net cash provided by discontinued operations for 2004 was $115.6 million versus cash used of $48.6 million in 2003. The increase primarily related to the sale of the package logistics business, decreases in the operating assets and liabilities of the discontinued operations in 2004 and decrease in cash paid for capital expenditures in 2004 and the acquisition of MLI in 2003. Other An additional source of liquidity at year end was the Companys short term investments in the amount of $500.2 million, which primarily consists of certificate and short term deposits and money market funds. These investments are with institutions of sound credit rating, are highly liquid and are classified as cash and cash equivalents. Dividends Cash dividends paid to shareholders totaled $200.8 million, $115.7 million and $111.0 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Company has consistently paid a dividend since becoming a public company in 1956 and currently has no plans to cease or reduce its dividend payments in 2005. Based on the current dividend per share, dividends declared by the Company subsequent to the Acquisition will result in larger cash outflows than prior years due to the increased number of common shares outstanding from the Acquisition. The Company believes it will continue to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to pay future dividends that may be approved by the Companys board of directors. On January 27, 2005, the Company announced a regular quarterly dividend of 26 cents per common share or approximately $56.0 million. Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commitments and Contingencies The following table quantifies our future contractual obligations as of December 31, 2004: Payments Due In Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total debt $ 1,787.1 $ 204.5 $ 226.6 $ 1.0 $ 1.0 $ 401.0 $ 953.0 Operating leases 387.5 94.3 80.9 61.5 40.7 33.3 76.8 Other (1) 331.1 309.6 9.2 6.5 3.5 2.3 Total $ 2,505.7 $ 608.4 $ 316.7 $ 69.0 $ 45.2 $ 436.6 $ 1,029.8 (1) Other represents contractual obligations for the purchase of property, plant and equipment ($246.0 million), contracts mainly for various outsourced professional services ($35.0 million), restructuring related severance payments ($35.1 million) and settlement of litigation ($15.0 million). Based on interest rates and debt outstanding at December 31, 2004, the Company expects to pay approximately $90.4 million in interest in 2005, which is not reflected above. In addition, the Company expects to make cash contributions of approximately $15.0 million to its pension plans and approximately $18.0 million to its postretirement plans in 2005, which are not reflected above. CAPITAL RESOURCES On February 27, 2004, the Company issued 102.1 million shares of common stock to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Moore Wallace (See Note 2, Acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements). In March 2004, the Company issued $400.0 million of 3.75% notes due in 2009 and $600.0 million of 4.95% notes due in 2014 (collectively, the Senior Notes) at a combined $3.0 million discount to the principal amount. Interest on the Senior Notes is payable semi annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing 32 Table of Contents October 1, 2004. The Company has the option to redeem the Senior Notes at any time subject to a make whole premium that is based upon a spread over the applicable market interest rate at the time of the redemption. The proceeds from the issuance of the Senior Notes were used to fund the redemption of Moore Wallace debt assumed in connection with the Acquisition that included $497.5 million outstanding under the Moore Wallace senior secured credit facility and $403.0 million of the Moore Wallace 7.875% senior unsecured notes. The senior secured credit facility was repaid on the Acquisition Date, and on March 29, 2004, the Company redeemed the 7.875% senior unsecured notes at a price that included a $57.5 million premium. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2004, the Companys commercial paper program was increased from $350.0 million to $1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2004, there were no borrowings under the commercial paper program. In connection with the Acquisition, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion five year unsecured revolving credit facility (the Facility) in February 2004, which bears interest at variable interest rates plus a basis point spread. The Facility, which replaced the Companys previous $350.0 million bank credit facilities, reduced the Companys liquidity risk due to increased availability and the extended maturity versus the prior facilities. The Facility will be used for general corporate purposes, including letters of credit and as a backstop for the Companys commercial paper program. The Facility is subject to a number of restrictive and financial covenants that, in part, limit the use of proceeds, and limit the ability of the Company to create liens on assets, engage in mergers and consolidations, or dispose of assets. The financial covenants require a minimum interest coverage ratio. As of December 31, 2004, there were no borrowings under the Facility. The Company pays an annual commitment fee of 0.09% on the total unused portion of the Facility. The Company also has $191.1 million in credit facilities outside of the U.S., most of which are uncommitted. As of December 31, 2004, total borrowings under these facilities were $35.5 million. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had $53.4 million in outstanding letters of credit, of which $33.9 million reduced availability under the Companys credit facilities. At December 31, 2004, approximately $1.1 billion was available under the Companys credit facilities. As a result of the Acquisition, the Companys senior debt and commercial paper program credit ratings were downgraded. Neither downgrade is expected to impact the Companys access to liquidity and is expected to have only a modest impact on pricing. The senior debt rating remains investment grade. The Company was in compliance with its debt covenants as of December 31, 2004. As of December 31, 2004, $500.0 million of debt securities were available for issuance by the Company under a registration statement on Form S 3 filed by the Company with the SEC. Risk Management The Company addresses certain financial exposures through limited use of derivative financial instruments. The Company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes and it is not a party to leveraged derivatives. The Company enters into interest rate swaps to manage its interest costs and exposure to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2004, the Company had $200.0 million notional amount interest rate swaps that exchange a fixed rate interest to floating rate LIBOR plus a basis point spread. These floating rate swaps are designated as a fair value hedge against $200.0 million of principal on the 5.0% debentures due November 2006. At December 31, 2004, these swaps had a fair value of $2.8 million. Additionally, the Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. However, to the extent borrowings, sales, purchases, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2004, the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts was approximately $14.8 million. Unrealized gains and losses from these foreign currency forward contracts were not significant at December 31, 2004. 33 Table of Contents OTHER INFORMATION Environmental, Health and Safety For a discussion of certain environmental, health and safety issues involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements. Litigation and Contingent Liabilities For a discussion of certain litigation involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements. New Accounting Pronouncements and Pending Accounting Standards During 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company adopted various accounting standards as described in Note 21, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the consolidated financial statements, none of which had a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Pending standards and their estimated effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements are described in Note 21, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the consolidated financial statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable rate debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. As such, the Company monitors the interest rate environment and uses interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate risk and price risk by balancing its exposure to fixed and variable interest rates while attempting to minimize interest costs. As of December 31, 2004, all of the Companys outstanding term debt is comprised of fixed rate debt, with the exception of $200.0 million fixed rate debt, which was swapped to floating rates. The Companys exposure to interest rate risk is mitigated by its investment in short term marketable securities. As of December 31, 2004, the Company has short term investments of $500.2 million consisting primarily of short term deposits and money market funds. The interest rates on these investments are generally tied to market rates. The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent revenues, expenses and other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit, the Company selectively enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2004, the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts was $14.8 million. The Company assessed market risk based on changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change in interest and foreign currency rates. Using this sensitivity analysis, such changes would not have a material effect on interest income/expense, foreign currency gains and losses, and cash flows; and would change the fair values of fixed rate debt by approximately $58.0 million. Credit Risk The Company is exposed to credit risk on accounts receivable balances. This risk is limited due to the Companys large, diverse customer base, dispersed over various geographic regions and industrial sectors. No single customer comprised more than 10% of the Companys consolidated net sales in 2004, 2003 and 2002. The Company maintains provisions for potential credit losses and any such losses to date have been within the Companys expectations. 34 Table of Contents Commodities The primary raw materials used by the Company are paper and ink. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company has incorporated price adjustment clauses in certain sales contracts. Management believes a hypothetical 10% change in the price of paper and other raw materials on its earnings and cash flows would not have a significant effect on the Company because these costs are generally passed through to its customers. 
 
