ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of RR Donnelleys financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements included in Item 15 of Part IV of this Form 10 K. Business R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company (RR Donnelley or the Company) is the worlds premier full service provider of print and related services, including document based business process outsourcing. Founded more than 140 years ago, the Company provides solutions in long and short run commercial printing, direct mail, financial printing, print fulfillment, forms and labels, logistics, call centers, transactional print and mail, print management, online services, digital photography, color services, and content and database management to customers in the publishing, healthcare, advertising, retail, technology, financial services and many other industries. Many of the largest companies in the world and others rely on RR Donnelleys scale, scope and capabilities through a comprehensive range of online tools, variable printing services and market specific solutions. 16 Table of Contents The Company operates in three segments: Publishing and Retail Services, Integrated Print Communications, and Forms and Labels. Publishing and Retail Services offers its customers a broad range of printed products and related services, such as magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, pre media, logistics and other value added services. Integrated Print Communications consists of short run and variable print operations including direct mail, short run commercial print and customized communication solutions to a diversified customer base. Additionally, this segment serves the document based business process outsourcing market by providing transactional print and mail services, data and print management, and document production and marketing support services. Forms and Labels designs and manufactures paper based forms, labels and printed office products, and provides print related services including print on demand and kitting services, from facilities located in North America and Latin America. The Latin America business also prints magazines, catalogs and books. Executive Overview 2005 Performance and 2006 Outlook RR Donnelley measures its financial performance using both generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and non GAAP measures. The Company believes that certain non GAAP measures, when presented in conjunction with comparable GAAP measures, are useful because that information is an appropriate measure for evaluating the Companys operating performance. Internally, the Company uses this non GAAP information as an indicator of business performance and evaluates managements effectiveness with specific reference to this indicator. These measures should be considered in addition to, not a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. A complete reconciliation of GAAP net earnings to non GAAP net earnings is presented on pages 24 and 25 of this annual report on Form 10 K. On a GAAP basis, the Companys results on key measures in 2005 versus 2004 were as follows: Net sales increased 17.8%, to $8.4 billion; Operating margins declined to 5.3% from 6.4% in 2004; Net earnings per diluted share declined 28.4% in 2005 to $0.63; and Cash flow from continuing operations increased 27.9% to $971.5 million. On a non GAAP basis, the Companys results on key measures were as follows: On a pro forma basis, adjusting for 2004 and 2005 acquisitions, net sales increased 5.5% (see Note 2, Acquisitions, to the consolidated financial statements); Non GAAP operating margins improved to 10.4% from 9.0% in 2004; and Non GAAP net earnings from continuing operations per diluted share increased 38.8% to $2.29. The strong 2005 financial results reflect the successful integration of RR Donnelley and Moore Wallace, significant new customer wins, expansion of existing customer relationships, improved cross selling and substantial cost savings from procurement, operational re engineering and administrative streamlining efforts. The acquisition of Astron in June 2005 was an important extension of the Company into the higher growth document based business process outsourcing (DBPO) sector. Astron is the leading provider of end to end DBPO solutions in the United Kingdom. With a full service model, Astron delivers inbound and outbound customer communication services, print management, statement processing, and document storage. Combined with the strength of the RR Donnelley brand, the Company believes that Astron is positioned to grow beyond its traditional markets by better competing for large, long term government and commercial outsourcing contracts and by leveraging its low cost customer support centers in India, Poland and Sri Lanka to serve markets worldwide. The Companys two largest segments, Publishing and Retail Services and Integrated Print Communications, both delivered strong gains in net sales and operating margins during 2005. The Companys increased capital investments in the domestic Publishing and Retail Services platform supported revenue and productivity gains across most businesses. In addition, Europe and Asia annualized revenues increased over 50% through a combination of strong growth across key customer relationships and the acquisitions of Asia Printers Group and Poligrafia. 17 Table of Contents The Forms and Labels business continues to be challenged by difficult market trends due to continued electronic substitution of forms and a declining pricing environment with overall 2005 segment results below expectations. As a result, in the fourth quarter, the Company recorded a non cash charge for impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangibles of $362.3 million to reflect a reduction in the fair value of this business based on forward net sales and operating margin expectations for the North American Forms and Labels business consistent with current trends. RR Donnelley, however, continues to be a market leader in this segment, and management is committed to maximizing the value of this business. In 2005, the Company took important steps to strengthen its sales effort and reduce its cost base in Forms and Labels. Based on these actions, management believes that the Forms and Labels business will continue to be profitable and a stable source of cash flow for the Company. In 2006, the Company expects that the competitive environment, for most of its business lines, will continue to remain intense with excess industry capacity continuing to drive price declines. To counter this trend, the Company expects to continue to identify productivity opportunities and target its investments at higher growth sectors such as DBPO and digital print. Capital spending of $471 million in 2005 was higher than historical levels due to the Companys strategic decision to update its Publishing and Retail Services manufacturing platform and support new business. In 2006, the Companys capital investment is expected to be lower than in 2005 as the Company completes its program to update its Publishing and Retail Services manufacturing platform. In addition, management expects that continued focus on productivity will drive costs lower in order to offset price declines and inflation in wages, benefits, and energy prices. RR Donnelley made significant strategic, operational and financial gains in 2005, resulting in strong improvement in many key performance indicators. The Company expects to further strengthen its leadership position as the premier provider of print and related services in 2006. Vision and Strategy RR Donnelleys vision is to be the worlds premier printing and print related services company by providing our customers with the highest quality products and services. The Companys strategy is focused on maximizing long term shareholder value by driving profitable growth, a continued focus on productivity, and acquiring and integrating complementary businesses. To increase shareholder value, the Company pursues three major strategic objectives. These objectives are summarized below, along with more specific areas of focus and the key indicators used by management to gauge progress towards these objectives. Strategic Objective Focus Areas Key Performance Indicators Profitable growth Targeted capital investments Accelerate cross selling Focus on higher growth sectors Net sales growth Operating margins (including on a non GAAP basis) Cash flow provided by operating activities Productivity Disciplined cost management Productivity focused investment plans Integration of acquisitions Streamline / standardize processes Targeted mergersand acquisitions Extend capabilities and service offerings Leverage strong balance sheet Disciplined due diligence and financial analysis 18 Table of Contents To generate profitable growth, the Company will continue to make targeted capital investments to support new business, accelerate cross selling to leverage the Companys broad customer relationships, and increase the Companys focus on higher growth sectors such as DBPO and digital print. The Company has made significant investments directed at improving the competitiveness of the Companys manufacturing platform after several years of lower investment levels. In addition to supporting growth, this investment has enhanced the platform through new technology that better meets customer needs and improves operating efficiency. The Company also seeks opportunities to cross sell by leveraging current customer relationships. While RR Donnelley serves nearly every company in the Fortune 500 in some capacity, the Companys estimated share of these customers overall print services expenditures that RR Donnelley supplies is less than 15%. With the integration of RR Donnelley and Moore Wallace, the Company offers a broad base of solutions to meet customer needs and expand its relationships with key customers. Management believes productivity improvement and cost reduction are critical to the Companys competitiveness. Since the acquisition of Moore Wallace, the Company has significantly reduced its cost structure through integration of operations, restructuring and disposal of non core businesses. The Companys efforts have focused on reducing procurement costs, streamlining sales, operations and administrative functions and the consolidation of facilities to reduce expenses and increase productivity. Within traditional print sectors, the primary focus of capital investments in coming years will be to drive continued increases in productivity and support new business. In addition, management plans to further reduce administrative and overhead costs by leveraging the Companys global capabilities and through additional standardization of systems, processes and procedures throughout the Company. Targeted acquisitions are another important component of the Companys strategy to extend its capabilities and its industry leadership. With its strong financial position relative to most competitors, the Company plans to make acquisitions to build on its scale advantages and extend its product offerings in key markets. In addition to the acquisition of Astron, the acquisitions of Asia Printers Group, Ltd. (Asia Printers), Poligrafia SA (Poligrafia), the Charlestown, Indiana facility of AdPlex Rhodes (Charlestown), Spencer Press, Inc. (Spencer), and Critical Mail Continuity Services, Ltd. (CMCS) in 2005 demonstrate the capability of the Company to leverage its depth of industry experience and integrate acquired companies to drive growth, cost savings and higher profitability. Additionally, in December of 2005, the Company completed the sale of its Peak Technologies business (Peak), which was not central to the Companys core business or strategy. Industry Challenges The Company faces many challenges and risks operating globally in highly competitive markets. Item 1A, Risk Factors, discusses many of these issues, but the Companys strategy is primarily focused on meeting the challenges of industry wide price competition and the advancement of technology. Overcapacity and pricing environment The print and related services industry in general continues to have excess capacity and remains highly competitive. Across the Companys business segments, many competitors rely on price as a key competitive lever. Management expects that prices for the Companys products and services will therefore continue to be a focal point for customers in coming years. In this environment, the Company believes it needs to continue to lower its cost structure, and extend into higher value service offerings. While the industry environment has been difficult for a number of years, the Company has demonstrated its ability to maintain and enhance margins through productivity and by offering higher value products and services. Technology Technological changes, such as the electronic distribution of documents and data, on line distribution and hosting of media content, advances in digital printing, print on demand, and internet technologies continue to 19 Table of Contents impact the market for the Companys products and services. As a substitute for print, the impact of these technologies has been felt most strongly in the Forms and Labels segment, as electronic communication and transaction technology has eliminated or devalued the role of many traditional paper forms. These factors contributed to the $362.3 million non cash impairment charge for the North American Forms and Labels reporting unit, recorded in the Forms and Labels segment during 2005. The future impact of technology on the Companys business is difficult to predict and could result in additional charges in the future. While new technologies present significant challenges to certain of the Companys traditional businesses, management believes that the Company is a leader in key technologies that will be valuable sources of industry growth. These technologies include digital content management and premedia services, digital print for personalization and print on demand, and low cost document process management. In 2005, the Company took key steps to capitalize on these technology advantages through its acquisition of Astron and by taking actions to more strongly protect its patented technology advantages in digital print processes. The Company also plans to focus more of its growth investments in digital technologies in future years. Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has defined a companys most critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of its financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, the Company has identified the following critical accounting policies and judgments. Although management believes that its estimates and assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon information available when they are made. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue for the majority of its products upon shipment to the customer and the transfer of title and risk of loss. Contracts generally specify F.O.B. shipping point terms. Under agreements with certain customers, custom products may be stored by the Company for future delivery. In these situations, the Company receives a logistics and warehouse management fee for the services it provides. In certain cases, delivery and billing schedules are outlined in the customer agreement and product revenue is recognized when manufacturing is complete, title and risk of loss transfer to the customer, and there is a reasonable assurance as to collectibility. Because the majority of products are customized, product returns are not significant; however, the Company accrues for the estimated amount of customer credits at the time of sale. Billings for third party shipping and handling costs are included in net sales. Revenue from services is recognized as services are performed. Long term product contract revenue is recognized based on the completed contract method or percentage of completion method. The percentage of completion method is used only for contracts that will take longer than three months to complete, where project stages are clearly defined and can be invoiced and where the contract contains enforceable rights by both parties. Revenue related to short term service contracts and contracts that do not meet the percentage of completion criteria is recognized when the contract is completed. Within the Companys global capital markets business, which serves the global financial services end market, the Company produces highly customized materials such as regulatory S filings, initial public offerings and EDGAR related services. Revenue is recognized for these services following final delivery of the printed product or upon completion of the service performed. 20 Table of Contents Revenues related to the Companys premedia operations, which include digital content management, photography, color services and page production, are recognized in accordance with the terms of the contract, typically upon completion of the performed service and acceptance by the customer. With respect to the Companys logistics operations, whose operations include the delivery of printed material, the Company recognizes revenue upon completion of the delivery of services. The Company records deferred revenue in situations where amounts are invoiced but the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are not met. Such revenue is recognized when all criteria are subsequently met. Accounts Receivable The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is reviewed for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments for products and services. Specific customer provisions are made when a review of significant outstanding amounts, utilizing information about customer creditworthiness and current economic trends, indicates that collection is doubtful. In addition, provisions are made at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable and the Companys historical collection experience. The Companys estimates of the recoverability of amounts due could change, and additional changes to the allowance could be necessary in the future if a major customers creditworthiness deteriorates, or if actual defaults are higher than the Companys historical experience. Inventories The Company records inventories at the lower of cost or market values. Most of the Companys inventories are valued under the last in first out (LIFO) basis. Changes in the inflation indices may cause an increase or decrease in the value of inventories accounted for under the LIFO costing method. The Company maintains inventory allowances based on excess and obsolete inventories determined in part by future demand forecasts. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for its products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and customer requirements, the Company could be required to increase its inventory allowances. Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets The Companys methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to acquisitions is based on established valuation techniques that reflect the consideration of a number of factors including valuations performed by third party appraisers. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the fair value assigned to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Based on its organization structure, the Company has identified 14 reporting units for which cash flows are determinable and to which goodwill is allocated. Goodwill is either assigned to a specific reporting unit or allocated between reporting units based on the relative excess fair value of each reporting unit. When the Companys organization structure changes, new or revised reporting units may be identified, and goodwill is reallocated, if necessary, based on relative excess fair value. The Company performs goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis or more frequently in certain circumstances. The Company compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the fair value, the Company performs an additional fair value measurement calculation to determine the impairment loss, which is charged to operations. In 2005, the Company recorded a non cash charge of $362.3 million to reflect impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets in the North American Forms and Labels reporting unit. As part of its annual impairment analysis for this reporting unit, the Company engaged a third party appraisal firm to determine the fair value of the unit, in part based on estimates of future net sales, operating margin and cash flows developed by management. In order to determine the amount of goodwill impairment, the Company also used the third party appraisal firm to value the significant tangible and intangible long lived assets of the reporting unit. 21 Table of Contents The Company evaluates the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and certain identifiable intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company performs indefinite lived impairment tests on an annual basis or more frequently in certain circumstances. Factors considered important which could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the assets or the strategy for the overall business, significant decrease in the market value of the assets and significant negative industry or economic trends. When the Company determines that the carrying amount of long lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the indicators, the assets are assessed for impairment based on the estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recorded for the excess of the assets carrying amount over its fair value. All of the Companys goodwill and long lived asset impairment assessments are determined based on established fair value techniques, including discounted cash flow analysis. These analyses require management to estimate both future cash flows and an appropriate discount rate to reflect the risk inherent in the current business model. The assumptions supporting valuation models, including discount rates, are determined using the best estimates as of the date of the impairment review. Certain investments in affordable housing, which are included in other noncurrent assets, are recorded at cost, as adjusted for the Companys share of any declines in the fair value of the underlying properties that are deemed to be other than temporary. The Companys basis for determining fair value of the underlying properties requires applying managements judgment using a significant number of estimates. Management derives its estimates of fair value using remaining future tax credits and tax deductions to be realized and expected residual values upon sale or disposition of the Companys ownership interests. Expected residual values are developed from industry assumptions and cash flow projections provided by the underlying partnerships and include certain assumptions with respect to operating costs, debt levels and certain market data related to the properties such as assumed vacancy rates. Should these assumptions differ from actual results in the future, the Company might be required to further write down its carrying value of these investments. Commitments and Contingencies The Company is subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to environmental, employment and other matters, as well as preference claims related to amounts received from customers prior to their seeking bankruptcy protection. Periodically, the Company reviews the status of each significant matter and assesses potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, the Company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the Company reassesses the potential liability related to pending claims and might revise its estimates. The Company purchases third party insurance for workers compensation, automobile and general liability claims that exceed a certain level. The Company is responsible for the payment of claims below these insured limits, and consulting actuaries are utilized to estimate the obligation associated with incurred losses, which is recorded in accrued liabilities. Historical loss development factors are utilized to project the future development of incurred losses, and these amounts are adjusted based upon actual claims experience and settlement. If actual experience of claims development is significantly different from these estimates, an adjustment in future periods may be required. Restructuring The Company records restructuring charges when liabilities are incurred as part of a plan approved by management, with the appropriate level of authority, for the elimination of duplicative functions, the closure of facilities, or the exit of a line of business, generally in order to reduce the Companys overall cost structure. Certain 22 Table of Contents restructuring costs are recognized as a cost of acquisitions because the plans were contemplated at the time of the acquisition and were, therefore, included in the purchase price allocation. These restructuring charges and related liabilities are based on contractual obligations or managements best estimates at the time the charges are recorded. The restructuring liabilities might change in future periods based on several factors that could differ from original estimates and assumptions. These include, but are not limited to: contract settlements on terms different than originally expected; ability to sublease properties based on market conditions at rates or on timelines different than originally estimated; or changes to original plans as a result of mergers or acquisitions. Such changes might result in reversals of or additions to restructuring charges that could affect amounts reported in the consolidated statements of operations of future periods. Accounting for Income Taxes Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Additionally, the Companys tax returns are subject to audit by various U.S. and foreign tax authorities. The Company accrues for uncertain tax positions for which it believes a loss is probable and estimable. Although management believes that its estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of uncertain tax positions may be materially different from that which is reflected in the Companys historical income tax provisions and accruals. The Company has recorded deferred tax assets related to domestic and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards. Limitations on the utilization of these tax assets generally apply; accordingly, management has provided a valuation allowance to reduce certain of these deferred tax assets when management has concluded that, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. If actual results differ from these estimates, or the estimates are adjusted in future periods, adjustments to the valuation allowance might need to be recorded. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans The Company records annual amounts relating to its pension and postretirement benefit plans based on calculations which include various actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, assumed rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. The Company reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate to do so. The effect of modifications is generally deferred and amortized over future periods. The Company believes that the assumptions utilized in recording its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on its experience, market conditions and input from its actuaries and investment advisors. The pension and postretirement obligations are measured as of September 30 for all years presented. The Company determines its assumption for the discount rate to be used for purposes of computing annual service and interest costs based on an index of high quality corporate bond yields and matched funding yield curve analysis as of that date. The Company employs a total return investment approach for its pension and postretirement benefit plans whereby a mix of equities and fixed income investments are used to maximize the long term return of pension and postretirement plan assets. The intent of this strategy is to minimize plan expenses by outperforming the growth in plan liabilities over the long run. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status, and corporate financial condition. The investment portfolios contain a diversified blend of equity and fixed income investments. Furthermore, equity investments are diversified across geography and market capitalization through investments in U.S. large capitalization stocks, U.S. small capitalization stocks and international securities. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through annual liability measurements, periodic asset/liability studies and quarterly investment portfolio reviews. The expected long term rate of return for plan assets is based upon many factors including expected asset allocations, historical asset returns, current and expected future market conditions, risk and active management 23 Table of Contents premiums. The prospective target asset allocation percentage for both the pension and postretirement benefit plans is approximately 75% for equity securities and approximately 25% for fixed income and other securities. The expected return on plan assets assumption at September 30, 2005 ranged from 8.0% to 8.5% for the Companys major U.S and Canadian pension plans and was 8.0% for the Companys funded U.S. postretirement medical benefit plan. The discount rates used at September 30, 2005 to measure pension and postretirement benefit obligations of the major U.S. and Canadian plans ranged from 5.0% to 5.8%. A one percentage point decrease in the discount rates at September 30, 2005 would increase the pension plans accumulated benefit obligation by approximately $345.4 million. The Company also maintains several pension plans in international locations. The assets, liabilities and expense associated with these plans are not material to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The expected returns on plan assets and discount rates for these plans are determined based on each plans investment approach, local interest rates, and plan participant profiles. The health care cost trend rates used in valuing the Companys postretirement benefit obligations are established based upon actual health care cost trends and consultation with actuaries and benefit providers. At September 30, 2005, the current weighted average health care trend rate assumption was 10.2% for pre age 65 participants and 11.9% for post age 65 participants. The current trend rate gradually decreases to an ultimate trend rate of 6.0%. A one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): Postretirement benefit obligation $ 22.7 Total postretirement benefit service and interest cost components 2.7 A one percentage point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): Postretirement benefit obligation $ (20.8 ) Total postretirement benefit service and interest cost components net (2.5 ) Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than non cancelable operating lease commitments, the Company does not have off balance sheet arrangements, financings, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons, also known as special purpose entities. Financial Review In the financial review that follows, the Company discusses its consolidated results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and certain other information. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and related notes that begin on page F 1. Non GAAP Measures The Company believes that certain non GAAP measures, when presented in conjunction with comparable GAAP measures, are useful because they are appropriate measures for evaluating the Companys operating performance. Internally, the Company uses non GAAP information as an indicator of business performance, and evaluates managements effectiveness with specific reference to these indicators. These measures should be considered in addition to, not a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. 24 Table of Contents Non GAAP net earnings from continuing operations excludes restructuring, impairment and integration charges, gains or losses on the disposition of investments, the non cash write down of the Companys investment in affordable housing, net income or loss from discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of a change in an accounting principle. The Company used an effective tax rate of 34.8% in 2005 and 38.3% in 2004, which it believes is its pro forma annual tax rate, in calculating non GAAP net earnings. A reconciliation of GAAP net earnings to non GAAP net earnings for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 for these adjustments is presented in the following table: Twelve months ended December 31, 2005 Twelve months ended December 31, 2004 Income from continuing operations Operating margin Net earnings Net earnings per diluted share Income from continuing operations Operating margin Net earnings Net earnings per diluted share GAAP basis measures $ 450.4 5.3 % $ 137.1 $ 0.63 $ 459.2 6.4 % $ 178.3 $ 0.88 Non GAAP adjustments: Restructuring and impairment charges, net (1) 419.8 5.0 % 395.6 1.83 107.4 1.5 % 63.7 0.31 Integration charges (2) 8.3 0.1 % 5.2 0.02 80.8 1.1 % 47.9 0.23 Gain on sale of investments (3) (13.9 ) (0.07 ) Non cash write down of affordable housing investments (4) 8.5 0.04 Income tax adjustments (5) (34.1 ) (0.16 ) Net (income) loss from discontinued operations (6) (41.5 ) (0.19 ) 80.0 0.39 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (7) 6.6 0.03 Total non GAAP adjustments 428.1 5.1 % 359.3 1.66 188.2 2.6 % 158.7 0.77 Non GAAP measures $ 878.5 10.4 % 496.4 $ 2.29 $ 647.4 9.0 % 337.0 $ 1.65 (1) Restructuring and impairment: Operating results for 2005 and 2004 were affected by the following restructuring and impairment charges: 2005 included $362.3 million of non cash charges for impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets in the Forms and Labels segment; $15.9 million for employee termination costs primarily associated with restructuring actions related to the Moore Wallace acquisition and other actions to restructure operations; $33.8 million of other costs, including $15.7 million associated with the relocation of the Companys corporate headquarters; $7.8 million for impairment of other long lived assets. 2004 included $81.6 million for employee termination costs, primarily associated with the Moore Wallace acquisition; $3.5 million in other restructuring costs; and $22.3 million of impairment charges, including $13.4 million for the abandonment of certain enterprise software projects. (2) Integration charges: Operating income included adjustments to cost of sales for the fair market value of acquired inventory and backlog ($66.9 million in 2004) and other post acquisition integration charges ($8.3 million in 2005 and $13.9 million in 2004) related to the Moore Wallace acquisition. (3) Gain on sale of investments: Investment and other income included a net gain on the disposition of investments in Latin America of $14.3 million ($13.9 million after tax) in 2004. (4) Non cash write down of affordable housing investments: Investment and other income included $14.4 million ($8.5 million after tax) in 2004 for the non cash write down of the Companys investment in affordable housing. (5) Income tax adjustments: Income tax expense in 2004 included certain one time items and adjustments that reduced the Companys effective tax rate from its estimated pro forma tax rate for the year of 38.3%. These items include the benefit of $30.5 million in reversals of tax accruals for contingencies upon expiration of certain state statutory limitations and $7.1 million for the reversal of a non U.S. valuation allowance. (6) Net income (loss) on discontinued operations: Included in the net income (loss) from discontinued operations in 2005 and 2004 are the results of Peak Technologies (sold on December 22, 2005), Momentum Logistics (shut down in the fourth quarter of 2004) and the package logistics business (sold in October 2004). In 2005, the net income from discontinued operations includes a gain on sale of Peak Technologies of $55.2 million, including the impact of related pre tax impairment charges of $36.6 million and tax benefits of $93.5 million. Included in the net loss from discontinued operations in 2004 are pretax restructuring charges and impairment charges, related to Momentum Logistics and package logistics of $108.2 million and an after tax loss on the sale of package logistics of $6.0 million. (7) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle: Amount represents the cumulative effect of change in accounting principle for the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. The cumulative effect reflects the difference between the previous carrying amount of the Companys investments in certain affordable housing partnerships and the underlying carrying values of the partnerships assets and liabilities upon consolidation of these entities into the Companys consolidated balance sheet. 25 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 The following table shows net sales and income (loss) from continuing operations for each of the Companys reportable segments. A complete description of the Companys reportable segments is included in Item 1, Business. Net Sales (1) Income (Loss) fromContinuing Operations (1) Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2005 2004 (in millions) Publishing and Retail Services $ 4,269.8 $ 3,821.7 $ 613.4 $ 457.9 Integrated Print Communications 2,491.5 1,880.7 279.8 179.8 Forms and Labels 1,668.9 1,454.0 (239.3 ) 47.9 Total operating segments 8,430.2 7,156.4 653.9 685.6 Corporate (203.5 ) (226.4 ) Total continuing operations $ 8,430.2 $ 7,156.4 $ 450.4 $ 459.2 (1) Reflects the results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates. Consolidated Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased $1,273.8 million, or 17.8%, to $8,430.2 million versus the prior year. Of this increase, $932.0 million was due to acquisitions, most significantly Moore Wallace and Astron. In addition, the increase was driven by volume growth across all businesses in the Publishing and Retail Services segment and in the Dynamic Communications Solutions and direct mail businesses within the Integrated Print Communications segment. Net sales also reflect the pass through to customers of higher materials prices, offset by the continuing impact of competitive price pressures in most markets. The Forms and Labels segments net sales increased due to the impact of the Moore Wallace acquisition, offset by price and volume declines, reflecting the continuing downward trend in demand due to continued electronic substitution primarily in the Forms sector. Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $450.4 million compared to $459.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This decrease reflected restructuring and impairment charges of $419.8 million compared to $107.4 million in 2004. These charges include a non cash charge of $362.3 million for impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets in the Forms and Labels segment. The impact of these charges was mostly offset by increased earnings from acquisitions, growth in net sales, cost reductions achieved through restructuring actions, productivity efforts, procurement savings and lower acquisition related costs (including fair value adjustments for inventory) of $72.5 million. Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) increased $820.7 million to $6,090.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 versus the prior year primarily due to acquisitions and the increased net sales volume. Cost of sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales decreased from 73.6% to 72.2% primarily due to cost reductions achieved through restructuring activities and incremental procurement savings, partially offset by the impact of higher paper prices which were largely passed through to customers and continuing price competition in most markets. Cost of sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 also included the fair value adjustments for inventory of acquired business of $4.1 million compared to $66.9 million of similar adjustments in the year ended December 31, 2004 due to the acquisition of Moore Wallace. Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) increased $110.0 million to $1,044.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 versus the prior year primarily due to acquisitions 26 Table of Contents and other net sales increases. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated net sales decreased to 12.4% in 2005 from 13.1% in 2004. This decrease was primarily due to benefits achieved from restructuring activities. Other items impacting this comparison include $7.8 million related to recovery of an international value added tax refund and the collection of a bankruptcy receivable which was previously written off, lower bad debt expense and provisions of $27.3 million recorded in the prior year related to litigation, insurance, termination benefits, and sales and use taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded a net restructuring and impairment provision of $419.8 million, compared to $107.4 million in 2004. These charges include $362.3 million for the impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets within the Forms and Labels segment; $15.7 million primarily related to the relocation of the Companys global corporate headquarters within Chicago; $15.9 million related to workforce reductions of 500 employees (of whom 395 were terminated as of December 31, 2005); and other costs incurred to restructure operations within the business segments. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the charges reflected workforce reductions of 1,368 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2005), primarily related to the elimination of duplicative administrative functions resulting from the acquisition of Moore Wallace. Management expects that restructuring activities will continue in 2006 as the Company continues to streamline its manufacturing, sales and administrative operations. Payments on certain lease obligations associated with various restructuring plans are scheduled to continue until 2011. The Company anticipates that payments associated with employee terminations relating to restructuring actions will be substantially completed by the end of 2006. Depreciation and amortization increased $39.5 million to $425.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004, primarily due to acquisitions. Depreciation and amortization included $58.3 million and $37.1 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, patents and non compete covenants for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Net interest expense increased by $24.8 million to $110.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 versus 2004 primarily reflecting interest expense related to the issuance of approximately $1.0 billion of debt in March 2004 and $1.0 billion of debt in May 2005 due to the acquisitions of Moore Wallace and Astron, respectively. Net investment and other expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $7.9 million versus $16.5 million in 2004. Included in investment and other expense, net, were charges of $8.1 million and $34.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, reflecting declines in the underlying estimated fair market values of the Companys affordable housing investments. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a gain of $14.3 million on the sale of certain investments in Latin America. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2005 was 71.5%, primarily reflecting the charge for impairment of goodwill of $353.6 million, for which the Company did not record any tax benefit. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the effective income tax rate was 25.9%. In addition to the impact of the goodwill impairment charge, the higher effective rate in 2005 reflects lower reversals of state tax contingencies upon the expiration of certain state statutory limitations ($6.7 million in 2005 compared to $30.5 million in 2004), lower affordable housing credits ($2.7 million and $8.8 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively) and the impact of the 2004 sale of an investment in Latin America. These impacts were partially offset by the reduction of $13.5 million in non U.S. valuation allowances compared to total reductions of non U.S. valuation allowances of $7.1 million in 2004. Earnings from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $95.6 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, compared to $264.9, million or $1.30 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2004. In addition to the factors discussed above, the per share results reflect an increase in weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 12.5 million shares primarily due to the acquisition of Moore Wallace, partially offset by share repurchases. 27 Table of Contents Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $41.5 million and was primarily related to Peak. The loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $80.0 million, and included the results of Momentum Logistics, Inc. (MLI) and package logistics prior to their dispositions. A net gain on the sale of Peak of $55.2 million, including pre tax impairment charges of $36.6 million and tax benefits of $93.5 million, is included in the income from discontinued operations, net of tax, compared to $118.3 million ($59.6 million after tax) in impairment charges and loss on sale for MLI and the Companys package logistics business included in the 2004 loss from discontinued operations, net of tax. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of $6.6 million, net of taxes of $4.3 million, reflecting the adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46R Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. The charge reflects the difference between the carrying amount of the Companys investments in certain partnerships related to affordable housing and the underlying carrying values of the partnerships upon consolidating these entities into the Companys financial statements. Management does not believe that the consolidation of these partnerships will have an ongoing material effect on the Companys consolidated annual results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Publishing and Retail Services The following table summarizes net sales, income from continuing operations and non GAAP adjustments within the Publishing and Retail Services segment: Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 (in millions) Net sales $ 4,269.8 $ 3,821.7 Income from continuing operations 613.4 457.9 Operating Margin 14.4 % 12.0 % Non GAAP adjustments: Restructuring and impairment charges net 15.8 46.3 Integration charges 0.4 0.4 Non GAAP income from continuing operations $ 629.6 $ 504.6 Non GAAP operating margin 14.7 % 13.2 % Net sales for the Publishing and Retail Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $4,269.8 million, an increase of $448.1 million, or 11.7%, compared to 2004. Of this increase, $125.9 million was due to the Moore Wallace, Asia Printers, Charlestown, Poligrafia and Spencer acquisitions. The remaining increase resulted from strong volume increases across all businesses in the segment and higher paper prices passed on to customers, partially offset by downward price pressures. Net sales increases in the magazine, catalog and retail business were driven by volume increases from new customer contracts, increased business with existing customers and higher paper prices that were passed on to customers, partially offset by lower prices associated with major contract renewals. In the book business, the increased net sales reflected higher consumer, education, and juvenile book volume. Consumer and juvenile volume was driven by strong performance of customers titles, and education volume reflected the impact of increased elementary and high school textbook volume driven by state adoption cycles. Net sales in the book business also reflected gains in the telecommunications and technology market and the impact of higher paper prices, partially offset by lower prices on major customer contract renewals. Net sales for the directories business also increased, primarily reflecting higher volume from most major customers and the impact of higher paper prices passed on to customers. Logistics net sales increased due to the Moore Wallace acquisition, strong volumes in the domestic print platform, growth in third party sales and higher fuel prices passed on to customers. Premedia net sales increased, also driven by higher print volumes, as well as work for new customers, offset by continuing price pressures in 28 Table of Contents this market. Net sales in Europe and Asia increased sharply from 2004. In Europe, this increase reflected higher telecommunication and technology, directory, magazine and retail volume, reflecting further penetration in these markets and the acquisition of Poligrafia. In Asia, the Companys net sales improvement was driven by strong gains in book production for the U.S. market, both from the Asia Printers acquisition and organic growth. Asian volume increases also reflected strong growth with telecommunications and technology customers. On a GAAP basis, Publishing and Retail Services income from continuing operations increased $155.5 million, including the impact of lower restructuring and impairment charges, and integration charges of $30.5 million. Non GAAP income from continuing operations for the Publishing and Retail Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2005 of $629.6 million increased $125.0 million, or 24.8%, compared to the prior year. In addition to the net sales increase, the increase in GAAP and non GAAP income from continuing operations included the benefits of cost reduction actions and procurement savings, partially offset by inflationary increases in wages, benefits and energy costs. The significant growth in operating income was achieved across all of the segments businesses. Non GAAP operating margins in Publishing and Retail Services increased to 14.7% in 2005 from 13.2% in 2004. Integrated Print Communications The following table summarizes net sales, income from continuing operations and non GAAP adjustments within the Integrated Print Communications segment: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 (in millions) Net sales $ 2,491.5 $ 1,880.7 Income from continuing operations 279.8 179.8 Operating margin 11.2 % 9.6 % Non GAAP adjustments: Restructuring and impairment charges net 10.8 16.4 Fair market value adjustment for inventory and backlog related to acquisitions 17.5 Integration charges 0.5 3.6 Non GAAP income from continuing operations $ 291.1 $ 217.3 Non GAAP operating margin 11.7 % 11.6 % Net sales for the Integrated Print Communications segment for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $2,491.5 million, an increase of $610.8 million, or 32.5%, compared to 2004. Of this increase $577.1 million was due to the acquisitions of Moore Wallace, Astron and Asia Printers. The remaining increase in net sales was primarily driven by the Dynamic Communications Solutions and direct mail businesses. Dynamic Communications Solutions experienced a strong increase in net sales compared to 2004, primarily driven by volume in services to the mutual fund industry. Net sales in the direct mail business grew as increased long run marketing programs for financial and not for profit markets more than offset revenue decreases related to prior year facility closures and customer losses. In addition to the impact of the Moore Wallace acquisition, short run commercial print net sales were up slightly from 2004 as pricing pressures nearly offset volume growth. Global capital markets net sales decreased from 2004 as transactional volume declines were only partially offset by an increase in compliance volume. On a GAAP basis, income from continuing operations increased $100.0 million. Fair market value adjustments of inventory acquired in the Moore Wallace acquisition resulted in charges of $17.5 million in 2004 and net restructuring, impairment and integration charges declined $8.7 million from 2004. Non GAAP income from continuing operations for the Integrated Print Communications segment for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased $73.8 million to $291.1 million due to acquisitions, Dynamic Communications Solutions and direct mail volume growth, benefits achieved from restructuring actions, including plant consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives. Non GAAP operating margins increased to 11.7% in 2005 from 11.6% in 2004. 29 Table of Contents Forms and Labels The following table summarizes net sales, income (loss) from continuing operations and non GAAP adjustments within the Forms and Labels segment: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 (in millions) Net sales $ 1,668.9 $ 1,454.0 Income (loss) from continuing operations (239.3 ) 47.9 Operating margin 14.3 % 3.3 % Non GAAP adjustments: Restructuring and impairment charges net 368.3 25.0 Fair market value adjustment for inventory and backlog related to the Moore Wallace acquisition 49.4 Integration charges 0.9 3.2 Non GAAP income from continuing operations $ 129.9 $ 125.5 Non GAAP operating margin 7.8 % 8.6 % Net sales for the Forms and Labels segment increased $214.9 million, or 14.8%, to $1,668.9 million due to the Moore Wallace acquisition. Overall, the forms and labels industry is in secular decline due to electronic substitution, with the pace of the decline difficult to predict. Excluding the impact of the Moore Wallace acquisition, both the U.S. and Canada forms and labels businesses experienced a continuing decline in net sales as this industry continues to be adversely affected by electronic substitution and intense price competition related to excess industry capacity. Net sales in Latin America, including the commercial print and catalog, magazine and book businesses, increased due to higher volume and favorable foreign currency exchange rates. On a GAAP basis, income from continuing operations decreased $287.2 million from 2004, primarily reflecting the non cash charge for impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets of $362.3 million in 2005. Other net restructuring and impairment charges decreased $19.0 million. In addition, 2004 results include $49.4 million in charges related to the fair market value adjustment of inventory and backlog due to the Moore Wallace acquisition. Non GAAP income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $129.9 million, an increase of $4.4 million from 2004. This increase was due to the Moore Wallace acquisition and significant improvements in the Latin American operating results. Non GAAP operating margins in Forms and Labels declined to 7.8% from 8.6% in the prior year, reflecting price pressures and volume declines, partially offset by cost savings from restructuring actions. Corporate The following table summarizes operating expenses and non GAAP adjustments within the Corporate segment: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 (in millions) Operating expenses $ 203.5 $ 226.4 Non GAAP adjustments: Restructuring and impairment charges net (24.9 ) (19.7 ) Integration charges (6.5 ) (6.7 ) Non GAAP operating expenses $ 172.1 $ 200.0 30 Table of Contents On a GAAP basis, corporate operating expenses decreased $22.9 million despite an increase in restructuring, impairment and integration charges of $5.0 million. In 2005, $15.7 million of the net restructuring and impairment charges are related to the consolidation and relocation of the global headquarters within Chicago. Corporate non GAAP operating expenses decreased $27.9 million to $172.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The current year corporate expenses reflect the inclusion of Moore Wallace for a full year compared to the prior years corporate expense that only included corporate expense attributable to Moore Wallace after the acquisition date. The decrease in corporate expense reflects the benefits achieved through restructuring actions and cost containment initiatives, partially offset by increased incentive compensation expenses. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 The following table shows net sales and income (loss) from continuing operations for each of the Companys segments: Net Sales Income (Loss) fromContinuing Operations Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2004 2003 (in millions) Publishing and Retail Services $ 3,821.7 $ 3,508.8 $ 457.9 $ 420.4 Integrated Print Communications 1,880.7 540.9 179.8 11.4 Forms and Labels 1,454.0 132.9 47.9 (21.7 ) Total operating segments 7,156.4 4,182.6 685.6 410.1 Corporate (226.4 ) (117.4 ) Total continuing operations $ 7,156.4 $ 4,182.6 $ 459.2 $ 292.7 Consolidated Net sales for 2004 increased $2,973.8 million, or 71.1% to $7,156.4 million versus the prior year. The increase was primarily due to the Moore Wallace acquisition ($2,669.6 million) and increased volumes in the Integrated Print Communications and Publishing and Retail Services segments. Net sales increases in the Publishing and Retail Services segment reflected volume increases across all business as well as favorable foreign currency exchange in international operations. Improved volumes in the Integrated Print Communications segment were attributable to the Global Capital Markets business, which benefited from improved capital market transaction levels in the U.S. and international markets. Income from continuing operations for 2004 increased $166.5 million, or 56.9%, versus the prior year to $459.2 million. The increase was primarily due to the Moore Wallace acquisition and improved operating results in 2004, which more than offset a $66.9 million adjustment for the fair value of inventory and backlog from the Moore Wallace acquisition, $107.4 million of net restructuring and impairment charges ($12.5 million in 2003), higher pension and post retirement expenses and $13.9 million of total integration related charges in 2004. Cost of sales increased $2,184.0 million to $5,269.6 million for 2004 versus the prior year, primarily due to the Moore Wallace acquisition ($1,957.4 million). Acquisition and integration costs included in cost of sales related to a charge associated with fair value adjustments for inventory and backlog ($66.9 million) and $5.3 million primarily related to equipment transfers and facility reconfigurations. These increases were partially offset by benefits achieved through restructuring and cost reduction initiatives, incremental procurement savings, and higher by product recoveries of $13.3 million, that are recognized as a reduction of cost of sales. 31 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $413.2 million versus the prior year, to $934.7 million for 2004, primarily due to the Moore Wallace acquisition ($437.9 million). Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated net sales increased to 13.1% in 2004 from 12.5% in 2003. This increase was primarily due to provisions of $27.3 million related to litigation, insurance, termination benefits and sales and use taxes, as well as a $31.3 million increase in certain employee incentive related costs for 2004 versus the prior year. The Company incurred $7.5 million in third party costs in 2004 associated with Sarbanes Oxley Act compliance for auditor attestation and Company readiness. Also included in 2004 were $8.6 million of integration charges related to the Moore Wallace acquisition. In addition, the Company recognized $34.2 million of pension and postretirement expense in 2004 versus $4.2 million of expense in 2003 due to changes in actuarial benefit assumptions and the inclusion of benefit obligations acquired in the Moore Wallace acquisition. During 2004, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $107.4 million. These charges included $85.1 million for workforce reduction costs (approximately 1,368 positions) primarily related to the elimination of duplicative administrative functions resulting from the Moore Wallace acquisition and the reorganization of certain operating activities, as well as lease exit costs. For 2004, the Company recorded impairment charges of $22.3 million. The impairment charges primarily included $14.0 million for the abandonment of certain Publishing and Retail Services related enterprise software projects and other assets, $2.1 million for the write down of a Publishing and Retail Services customer contract and $6.2 million related to software and other assets in the Forms and Labels and Integrated Print Communications segments. During 2003, the Company recorded $12.5 million of net restructuring and impairment charges, primarily related to workforce reductions (approximately 279 positions), the relocation of employees and equipment from closed facilities and the curtailment of the Companys postretirement benefit plan. Depreciation and amortization increased $115.2 million to $385.5 million for 2004 compared to 2003, which was more than accounted for by the Moore Wallace acquisition. Acquisition related depreciation and amortization included $36.7 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, patents and covenants not to compete. Interest expense, net, increased by $34.5 million for 2004 versus 2003, primarily due to the $1.0 billion of debt issued in conjunction with the Moore Wallace acquisition. Investment and other expense, net, for 2004 was $16.5 million versus $12.9 million for 2003. The change was due to a higher write down of affordable housing investments ($34.6 million in 2004 versus $23.3 million in 2003) that was partially offset by higher net gains on the disposals of investments in 2004 (which included a $14.3 million gain on sale of certain investments in Latin America). The write downs of affordable housing investments in 2004 and 2003 reflected declines in the estimated fair market values of the Companys affordable housing investments. For 2004, the difference between the effective tax rate and the statutory tax rate primarily relates to the benefit associated with the reversal of tax contingencies upon the expiration of certain state statutory limitations ($30.5 million), the reversal of a non U.S. valuation allowance ($7.1 million) and affordable housing credits ($8.8 million). Earnings from continuing operations for 2004 increased by $76.4 million versus the prior year to $264.9 million, or $1.30 per diluted share. For 2003, net earnings from continuing operations were $188.5 million, or $1.65 per diluted share. Net earnings per share in 2004 reflect the impact of the 102.1 million shares issued in conjunction with the Moore Wallace acquisition. Net earnings for 2004 also reflect the incremental results of the Moore Wallace acquisition and improved operating results, which more than offset the unfavorable impact of the fair value adjustment of inventory and backlog and net restructuring and impairment and integration charges. Net loss from discontinued operations was $80.0 million for 2004 compared to a net loss of $12.0 million in 2003. The net loss for 2004 was primarily due to net restructuring and impairment charges of $109.1 million. During the first quarter of 2004, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $13.9 million for the goodwill, 32 Table of Contents intangibles and fixed assets of momentum Logistics, Inc. (MLI), as the carrying value of the assets exceeded the future cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. During the second quarter of 2004, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $89.1 million in conjunction with the then pending disposition of its package logistics business, as the fair value was less than the carrying amount of the net assets. Fair value was determined by using managements best estimate of the amounts for which the net assets could be sold in the marketplace. The results of discontinued operations for 2004 reflected restructuring charges of $0.5 million recorded prior to the decision to dispose of the package logistics business and $4.7 million for the shutdown of MLI. These restructuring charges included workforce reduction (750 employees) and lease exit costs. Also included in the net loss from discontinued operations was a net loss of $10.1 million related to Peak, which included restructuring charges of $0.9 million for workforce reductions (57 employees). For 2004, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of $6.6 million, net of taxes of $4.3 million, reflecting the adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. The charge reflects the difference between the carrying amount of the Companys investments in certain partnerships related to affordable housing and the underlying carrying values of the partnerships upon consolidating these entities into the Companys financial statements. Management does not believe that the consolidation of these partnerships will have an ongoing material effect on the Companys consolidated results of operations or financial position. Publishing and Retail Services The following table summarizes net sales, income from continuing operations and non GAAP adjustments within the Publishing and Retail Services segment: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 (in millions) Net sales $ 3,821.7 $ 3,508.8 Income from continuing operations 457.9 420.4 Operating margin 12.0 % 12.0 % Non GAAP adjustments: Restructuring and impairment charges net 46.3 2.8 Integration charges 0.4 Non GAAP income from continuing operations $ 504.6 $ 423.2 Non GAAP operating margin 13.2 % 12.1 % Net sales for the Publishing and Retail Services segment for 2004 were $3,821.7 million, an increase of $312.9 million, or 8.9%, compared to 2003, primarily due to the Moore Wallace acquisition ($75.2 million) and volume increases across all businesses in the segment. Net sales in the magazine, catalog and retail business increased in 2004 versus the prior year due to volume increases related to major customers and increased paper prices that were partially offset by industry pricing pressures. Net sales in the directories business for 2004 increased versus the prior year due to volume improvements that more than offset pricing pressures. The net sales for the premedia business benefited from higher volumes from both existing Publishing and Retail Services and third party customers. Net sales for the logistics business reflected increased print logistics and expedited service volumes due to growth in volume from existing Publishing and Retail Services and third party customers. The book business benefited from improved sales in the educational book market in the second half of 2004. The international operations in this segment, which benefited from improved volumes and favorable foreign currency exchange, also contributed to the sales increases. On a GAAP basis, income from continuing operations increased $37.5 million, reflecting net restructuring charges of $30.2 million and impairment charges of $16.1 million in 2004 compared to total restructuring and impairment charges of $2.8 million in 2003. The 2004 restructuring charges primarily related to employee terminations as the Company continued to focus on reducing its operating cost structure. The 2004 impairment 33 Table of Contents charge primarily included $14.0 million for the abandonment of certain enterprise software projects and other assets and $2.1 million for the write down of a customer contract. Non GAAP income from continuing operations for the Publishing and Retail Services segment for 2004 increased $81.4 million, or 19.2%, to $504.6 million compared to 2003 due to the Moore Wallace acquisition ($19.3 million) and improved operating results across all businesses within the Publishing and Retail Services segment generated from improved volumes, productivity, by product recoveries, cost containment and incremental procurement savings offset by and increased employee related incentive costs. Integrated Print Communications The following table summarizes net sales, income from continuing operations and non GAAP adjustments within the Integrated Print Communications segment: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 (in millions) Net sales $ 1,880.7 $ 540.9 Income from continuing operations 179.8 11.4 Operating margin 9.6 % 2.1 % Non GAAP adjustments: Restructuring and impairment charges net 16.4 5.3 Fair market value adjustment for inventory and backlog related to the Moore Wallace acquisition 17.5 Integration charges 3.6 Non GAAP income from continuing operations $ 217.3 $ 16.7 Non GAAP operating margin 11.6 % 3.1 % Net sales for the Integrated Print Communications segment increased by $1,339.8 million to $1,880.7 million in 2004 compared to the prior year primarily due to the Moore Wallace acquisition ($1,285.7 million) and increased global capital markets sales resulting from increased volume and increased volume in services to the mutual fund industry. Because the Integrated Print Communications segments results only reflect the acquired operations of Moore Wallace subsequent to the acquisition Date, management believes that the following comments related to the revenue trends affecting the acquired operations in the segment for 2004 versus the results for 2003 are relevant. Short run commercial print results reflected the continued pressures from price erosion related to excess capacity in the industry. Increased volumes reflected increased cross selling activities into the commercial print facilities. Growth in the Dynamic Communications Solutions business was attributable to new customer volumes and increased activity across most industry sectors served. These increases more than offset pricing pressure and a slowdown in the mortgage refinancing market. Declines in the direct mail businesses related to facility closures and pricing and volume pressures at existing customers that were partially offset by new customer and new program growth. On a GAAP basis, income from continuing operations for 2004 included $16.4 million of net restructuring and impairment charges across the financial print and direct mail businesses, $17.5 million of charges for the fair market value adjustment for inventory and backlog, $19.3 million of amortization of purchased intangibles and $3.6 million of integration costs related to the Moore Wallace acquisition. The 2003 income from continuing operations included $5.3 million of restructuring and impairment charges. Non GAAP income from continuing operations for the Integrated Print Communications segment for 2004 increased $200.6 million to $217.3 million versus 2003, due to the Moore Wallace acquisition ($136.2 million), volume increases and benefits achieved from prior year restructuring actions and other cost reduction efforts. 34 Table of Contents Forms and Labels The following table summarizes net sales, income (loss) from continuing operations and non GAAP adjustments within the Forms and Labels segment: Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 (in millions) Net sales $ 1,454.0 $ 132.9 Income (loss) from continuing operations 47.9 (21.7 ) Operating Margin 3.3 % 16.3 % Non GAAP adjustments: Restructuring and impairment charges net 25.0 4.2 Fair market value adjustment for inventory and backlog related to the Moore Wallace acquisition 49.4 Integration charges 3.2 Non GAAP income from continuing operations $ 125.5 $ (17.5 ) Non GAAP operating margin 8.6 % 13.2 % Net sales for 2004 increased $1,321.1 million to $1,454.0 million primarily due to the Moore Wallace acquisition ($1,308.6 million). Because the Forms and Labels segment results primarily reflect the acquired operations of Moore Wallace subsequent to the acquisition date, management believes that the following comments in relation to the revenue trends affecting net sales in the Forms and Labels segment for 2004 versus 2003 are relevant. The forms and labels industry is in secular decline, but the pace of this decline remains difficult to predict. The business continued to be adversely affected by volume declines attributable to continuing industry wide trends of electronic substitution for higher margin multi part and other long run forms products and price competition related to excess capacity in the industry. Income from continuing operations for 2004 of $47.9 million included $49.4 million of charges for the fair market value adjustment for inventory and backlog, $17.4 million of amortization of purchased intangibles and $3.2 million of integration costs related to the Moore Wallace acquisition. In addition, the 2004 operating results included $25.0 million of net restructuring and impairment charges related to the reorganization of the segment subsequent to the Moore Wallace acquisition. In addition to $4.2 million of restructuring and impairment charges, the 2003 results include a provision for doubtful accounts receivable of $6.3 million. Corporate Corporate operating expenses for 2004 increased $109.0 million to $226.4 million versus the same period in 2003. The increase is primarily due to the Moore Wallace acquisition, restructuring charges of $19.7 million primarily for workforce reductions, integration charges of $6.8 million, provisions for litigation, insurance, termination benefits and sales and use taxes of $27.3 million and lower benefit plan earnings. In addition, 2004 included increased employee related incentive costs ($20.1 million) and incremental third party costs associated with Sarbanes Oxley Act compliance ($7.5 million). These increases were partially offset by benefits achieved through restructuring actions and cost containment initiatives taken during the year. RESTRUCTURING, IMPAIRMENT, AND ACQUISITION RELATED CHARGES During 2005, the Company recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $419.8 million, including $362.3 million in non cash charges for the impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets within the Forms and Labels segment. This impairment charge was the result of the Companys annual goodwill impairment analysis and relates to the North American Forms and Labels reporting unit within the Forms and Labels segment. As part of its annual impairment analysis for this reporting unit, the Company engaged a third 35 Table of Contents party appraisal firm to determine the fair value of the unit, in part based on estimates of future cash flows developed by management. In order to determine the amount of goodwill impairment, the Company also used the outside appraisal firm to value the significant tangible and intangible long lived assets of the reporting unit. The impairment analysis reflected that the estimated fair value of the North American Forms and Labels reporting unit had declined since the Company previously performed this annual test in 2004. The decline in estimated value of the reporting unit was primarily attributable to changes in estimated future revenues and cash flows for the business. In 2005, the business was impacted by larger than expected price and volume declines driven by the ongoing drop in market demand. The Company has incorporated these changes in market trends into its estimates of future revenues and cash flows, resulting in the lower estimated fair value. Also reflected in 2005 restructuring and impairment charges was $15.7 million primarily related to the relocation of the Companys global corporate headquarters within Chicago, $15.9 million related to workforce reductions of 500 employees (of whom 395 were terminated as of December 31, 2005) and $18.1 million in other costs incurred to restructure operations within the business segments. Throughout 2004, management approved and initiated various plans to restructure the operations of the Company predominantly in connection with the Moore Wallace acquisition. These included plans to eliminate certain duplicative functions and vacate redundant facilities in order to reduce the Companys cost structure. As a result, the Company recorded $85.1 million of net restructuring charges that are included in the 2004 results of operations. Additionally, for 2004, the Company recorded $24.7 million of restructuring costs to exit certain operations and activities of Moore Wallace, which were contemplated at the time of the acquisition and therefore the related restructuring costs were capitalized as a cost of the acquisition. For 2004, the Company recorded impairment charges of $22.3 million. The impairment charges included $14.0 million for the abandonment of certain Publishing and Retail Services related enterprise software projects and other assets and $2.1 million for the write down of a Publishing and Retail Services customer contract. Additional impairment charges related to software and other assets in the Forms and Labels ($4.3 million) and Integrated Print Communications ($1.9 million) segments. During 2003, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $12.5 million. The 2003 charges included costs associated with workforce reductions, as well as period costs associated with defined exit activities from previously announced restructuring plans. Included were impairment charges of $3.7 million primarily related to the closure of a directory plant in Chile ($3.2 million). Acquisition and integration costs of $80.8 million were recorded in 2004. The acquisition and integration costs recorded in cost of sales of $72.2 million related to fair value adjustments for inventory and backlog ($66.9 million) as well as to equipment transfers from vacated facilities, facility reconfiguration due to consolidations, training and travel in the Forms and Labels ($1.6 million), Integrated Print Communications ($3.5 million), and Publishing and Retail Services ($0.2 million) segments. Selling, general and administrative expenses included acquisition and integration costs of $8.6 million for consulting expenses associated with system integration and facility reconfiguration expenses due to office consolidations, in the Forms and Labels ($1.6 million), Integrated Print Communications ($0.1 million), Publishing and Retail Services ($0.2 million) and Corporate ($6.7 million) segments. In 2006, the Company expects to realize the cost savings associated with the restructuring actions taken in 2005, primarily through reduced employee and facility costs. The Company anticipates that payments associated with employee terminations ($14.6 million) related to its various restructuring programs will be substantially complete by the fourth quarter of 2006. The Company anticipates that payments associated with lease exit costs ($21.2 million) will be substantially complete by 2011. Market conditions and the Companys ability to sublease these properties could affect the ultimate charge and cash payments related to these lease obligations. The Company expects to identify further cost reduction opportunities which may result in additional restructuring charges. 36 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES LIQUIDITY The Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to support the ongoing activities of the businesses and to invest in future growth to create value for its shareholders. Operating cash flows are the Companys primary source of liquidity and are expected to be used for, among other things, capital expenditures as necessary to support growth and productivity improvement, interest and principal on the Companys debt obligations, additional acquisitions, future common stock repurchases based upon market conditions, completion of restructuring programs, and dividend payments that may be approved by the board of directors. Additional sources of liquidity include a commercial paper program and credit facilities described under Capital Resources below. Cash Flows From Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $971.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations of $759.4 million for the same period last year. The increase reflects the impact of acquisitions and improved operating results driven by volume growth and cost reduction actions. Cash Flows From Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $1,621.9 million versus net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations of $119.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2005, capital expenditures were $471.0 million versus $265.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was driven primarily by investments to update the Publishing and Retail Services manufacturing platform and support new businesses. The Company continues to fund capital expenditures primarily through cash provided by operations. The Company expects that capital expenditures for 2006 will be between $350 and $370 million. Cash used in acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired, includes the acquisitions of Astron, Asia Printers, Charlestown, Poligrafia, Spencer and CMCS in 2005 compared to the net cash acquired in the 2004 all stock acquisition of Moore Wallace. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company received $43.4 million in proceeds from the sale of various assets. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company received $37.5 million on the sale of an investment in Latin America, $36.8 million on the sale of miscellaneous assets, and $5.3 million from an eminent domain settlement with the state of Georgia. Cash Flows From Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $378.5 million compared to net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations of $191.8 million in 2004. The change primarily related to the issuance of $1.0 billion of debt related to the acquisition of Astron, offset by purchases of Company shares pursuant to the Companys share repurchase program and the increase in cash dividends paid in the current year on the incremental shares issued in conjunction with the Moore Wallace acquisition. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company purchased approximately 8.5 million shares of its common stock at a total cash cost of $270.4 million, of which 6.0 million of these shares were purchased from affiliates of GSC Partners in a privately negotiated transaction at a purchase price of approximately $200.0 million. At the time of the repurchase, two of the Companys then directors were affiliated with GSC. Both directors recused themselves from deliberations related to the repurchase. The remaining stock purchases during the year were made in the open market. Cash Flows From Discontinued Operations Net cash used by discontinued operations for 2005 was $4.6 million including the proceeds from the sale of Peak compared to net cash provided by discontinued operations of $115.6 million in 2004, including the sale of the package logistics business. 37 Table of Contents Other An additional source of liquidity at year end was the Companys short term investments in the amount of $230.1 million, which primarily consists of certificate and short term deposits and money market funds. These investments are with institutions of sound credit rating, are highly liquid and are classified as cash and cash equivalents. Dividends Cash dividends paid to shareholders totaled $223.4 million, $200.8 million and $115.7 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company has consistently paid a dividend since becoming a public company in 1956 and currently has no plans to cease or reduce its dividend payments in 2006. The Company believes it will continue to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to pay future dividends that may be approved by the Companys board of directors. On January 5, 2006, the board of directors of the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.26 per common share, payable on March 1, 2006 to shareholders of record on February 10, 2006. Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commitments and Contingencies The following table quantifies our future contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005: Payments Due In Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter (in millions) Total debt $ 2,641.0 $ 270.4 $ 7.2 $ 5.2 $ 403.8 $ 502.8 $ 1,451.6 Operating leases 555.3 121.5 97.4 70.7 55.6 39.0 171.1 Other (1) 245.6 145.9 33.4 32.6 31.8 1.9 Total $ 3,441.9 $ 537.8 $ 138.0 $ 108.5 $ 491.2 $ 543.7 $ 1,622.7 (1) Other represents contractual obligations for outsourced services ($131.5 million) and the purchase of property, plant and equipment ($99.4 million) and restructuring related severance payments ($14.6 million). Based on interest rates and debt outstanding, including related derivative financial instruments, at December 31, 2005, the Company expects to pay approximately $127.8 million in interest in 2006, which is not reflected above. In addition, the Company expects to make cash contributions of approximately $16 million to its pension plans and approximately $17 million to its postretirement benefit plans in 2006, which are not reflected above. On February 22, 2006, the Companys board of directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to 10 million shares of the Companys common stock. CAPITAL RESOURCES In May 2005, the Company issued $500.0 million of 4.95% notes due in 2010 and $500.0 million of 5.5% notes due in 2015 (collectively, the Senior Notes) at a combined $2.1 million discount to the principal amount. Interest on the Senior Notes is payable semi annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing November 15, 2005. The Company has the option to redeem the Senior Notes at any time subject to a make whole premium that is based upon a spread over the applicable market interest rate at the time of the redemption. The proceeds from the issuance of the Senior Notes were used to acquire Astron and to fund the redemption of Astron debt assumed in connection with the acquisition. The Company has a $1.0 billion five year unsecured revolving credit facility (the Facility), including letters of credit, that can be used for general corporate purposes and as a backstop for the Companys commercial paper program. The Facility is subject to a number of restrictive and financial covenants that, in part, limit the 38 Table of Contents ability of the Company to create liens on assets, engage in mergers and consolidations, or dispose of assets. The financial covenants require a minimum interest coverage ratio. As of December 31, 2005, there were no borrowings under the Facility. The Company pays an annual commitment fee of 0.10% on the total unused portion of the Facility. The Company also has $226.0 million in credit facilities outside of the U.S., most of which are uncommitted. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had $66.0 million in outstanding letters of credit, of which $48.7 million reduced availability under the Companys credit facilities. At December 31, 2005, approximately $1.1 billion was available under the Companys credit facilities. Additionally, as of December 31, 2005, there were no borrowings under the Companys $1.0 billion commercial paper program. As a result of the Astron acquisition, the Companys senior debt rating was downgraded to Baa2 from Baa1 by Moodys Investor Services. While this downgrade may increase future borrowing costs, it is not expected to significantly impact the Companys access to liquidity. Standard & Poors reaffirmed the Companys senior debt rating at A , and the Companys senior debt ratings remain investment grade. The Company was in compliance with its debt covenants as of December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, $500.0 million of debt securities were available for issuance by the Company under a registration statement on Form S 3 filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risk Management In connection with the issuance of the Senior Notes, the Company entered into interest rate lock agreements with a notional amount of $1.0 billion to hedge against fluctuations in interest rates prior to the issuance of the Senior Notes. These agreements were terminated upon issuance of the Senior Notes and the loss of $12.9 million is being recognized in interest expense over the term of the hedged forecasted interest payments. In the second quarter of 2005, the Company also entered into cross currency swaps with an aggregate notional value of $948.8 million (British pound sterling GBP 520.0 million), which exchange GBP for U.S. dollars. These swaps require the Company to pay a fixed interest rate on the GBP notional amount and receive a fixed interest rate on the U.S. dollar notional amount. These swaps expire in 2010 ($455.0 million notional amount) and 2015 ($493.8 million notional amount). The Company has designated $675.8 million of the swaps as a cash flow hedge of the variability of the forecasted cash receipts from GBP denominated intercompany loans and $273.0 million of the swaps as a hedge of a net investment of GBP denominated foreign operations. At December 31, 2005, the fair market value of these cross currency swaps of $16.2 million is included in other assets. The Company uses interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate risk by balancing its exposure to fixed and variable interest rates while attempting to minimize interest costs. As part of its interest rate risk management program, at December 31, 2005, the Company had $200.0 million notional amount interest rate swaps that exchange a fixed rate interest to floating rate LIBOR plus a basis point spread. These floating rate swaps are designated as a fair value hedge against $200.0 million of principal on the Companys 5.0% debentures due November 2006. At December 31, 2005, the fair market value of these swaps of $1.2 million was included in accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable rate debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. As such, the Company monitors the interest rate environment and uses interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate risk and price risk by balancing its exposure to fixed and variable interest rates while attempting to minimize interest costs. As of December 31, 2005, all of the Companys outstanding term debt is comprised of fixed rate debt, with the exception of the $200.0 million of fixed rate debt that was swapped to floating rates. The Companys exposure to interest rate risk is mitigated by its investment in short term marketable securities. As of December 31, 2005, the Company has short term investments of $230.1 million consisting primarily of short term deposits and money market funds. The interest rates on these investments are generally tied to market rates. 39 Table of Contents The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2005, the notional amount of the Companys outstanding forward contract was $6.9 million. Unrealized gains and losses from this foreign currency contract were not significant at December 31, 2005. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. OTHER INFORMATION Environmental, Health and Safety For a discussion of certain environmental, health and safety issues involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements. Litigation and Contingent Liabilities For a discussion of certain litigation involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements. New Accounting Pronouncements and Pending Accounting Standards During 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company adopted various accounting standards as described in Note 22, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the consolidated financial statements, none of which had a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. Pending standards and their estimated effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements are described in Note 22, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the consolidated financial statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable rate debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. As such, the Company monitors the interest rate environment and uses interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate risk and price risk by balancing its exposure to fixed and variable interest rates while attempting to minimize interest costs. As of December 31, 2005, all of the Companys outstanding term debt was comprised of fixed rate debt, with the exception of $200.0 million fixed rate debt that was swapped to floating rates. The Companys exposure to interest rate risk is mitigated by its investment in short term marketable securities. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had short term investments of $230.1 million consisting primarily of short term deposits and money market funds. The interest rates on these investments are generally tied to market rates. The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent revenues, expenses and other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit, the Company selectively enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the notional amount of the Companys outstanding forward contracts was $6.9 million and $14.8 million, respectively. The Company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change in interest and foreign currency rates. Using this sensitivity analysis, such changes would not have a material effect on interest income/expense, foreign currency gains and losses, and cash flows; and would change the fair values of fixed rate debt at December 31, 2005 and 2004 by approximately $91 million and $58 million, respectively. 40 Table of Contents Credit Risk The Company is exposed to credit risk on accounts receivable balances. This risk is limited due to the Companys large, diverse customer base, dispersed over various geographic regions and industrial sectors. No single customer comprised more than 10% of the Companys consolidated net sales in 2005, 2004 or 2003. The Company maintains provisions for potential credit losses and any such losses to date have been within the Companys expectations. Commodities The primary raw materials used by the Company are paper and ink. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company has incorporated price adjustment clauses in certain sales contracts. Management believes a hypothetical 10% change in the price of paper and other raw materials would not have a significant effect on the Companys consolidated annual results of operations or cash flows because these costs are generally passed through to its customers. 
 
