ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of RR Donnelleys financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements included in Item 15 of Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Business R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company (RR Donnelley, the Company, we,, us, and our) is the worlds premier full service provider of print and related services, including business process outsourcing. Founded more than 140 years ago, the Company provides solutions in commercial printing, direct mail, financial printing, print fulfillment, labels, forms, logistics, call centers, transactional print and mail, print management, online services, digital photography, color services, and content and database management to customers in the publishing, healthcare, advertising, retail, technology, financial services and many other industries. The largest companies in the world and others rely on RR Donnelleys scale, scope and insight through a comprehensive range of online tools, variable printing services and market specific solutions. During the fourth quarter of 2006, management changed the Companys reportable segments to reflect changes in the management reporting structure of the organization and the manner in which the chief operating decision maker regularly assesses information for decision making purposes, including the allocation of resources. In addition, the Company renamed its segments to better reflect the products and services associated with the businesses that comprise each segment. The revised reporting structure includes two segments: Global Print Solutions and Global Services. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2006, the Companys structure included three segments: Publishing and Retail Services, Integrated Print Communications and Forms and Labels. In addition, certain general, administrative and unallocated costs are separately presented as Corporate. Global Print Solutions offers its customers a broad range of printed products and related services, such as magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, direct mail, logistics and other value added services. Global Services serves the business process outsourcing sector by providing transactional print and mail services, data and print management, and document production and marketing support services. Additionally, this segment designs and manufactures paper based forms, labels and printed office products, and provides print related services including premedia, print on demand and kitting services, from facilities located in North America and Latin America. The Latin America business also prints magazines, catalogs and books. 19 Table of Contents Executive Overview 2006 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The changes in the Companys income from continuing operations, operating margin, net earnings and net earnings per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2006, from the year ended December 31, 2005, were due primarily to the following (in millions, except per share data): Incomefromcontinuingoperations Operatingmargin Netearnings Netearningsperdilutedshare For the year ended December 31, 2005 $ 450.4 5.3 % $ 137.1 $ 0.63 2006 restructuring and impairment charges net (206.1 ) (2.2 %) (172.9 ) (0.79 ) 2005 restructuring and impairment charges net 419.8 5.0 % 395.6 1.83 2005 integration charges 8.3 0.1 % 5.2 0.02 Write down of affordable housing investments (10.1 ) (0.05 ) Gain on sale of investments 4.1 0.02 Income tax adjustments 23.5 0.11 Discontinued operations (43.5 ) (0.20 ) Operations 78.3 61.6 0.26 For the year ended December 31, 2006 $ 750.7 8.1 % $ 400.6 $ 1.83 2006 restructuring and impairment charges net: included $110.0 million of non cash charge for impairment of goodwill related to the Global Document Solutions business; pretax charges of $54.1 million for employee termination costs, substantially all of which were associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities; $11.1 million of other restructuring costs, primarily lease termination costs; and $30.9 million of impairment charges of which $26.3 million reflects the write down of the Astron trade name intangible asset. 2005 restructuring and impairment charges net: included $362.3 million of non cash charges for impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets in the North America forms and labels business; $15.9 million for employee termination costs primarily associated with restructuring actions related to the Moore Wallace acquisition and other actions to restructure operations; $33.8 million of other restructuring costs, including lease termination costs associated with the relocation of the Companys corporate headquarters, and $7.8 million of impairment of long lived assets. 2005 integration charges: included $8.3 million of post acquisition integration charges related to the Moore Wallace acquisition. Write down of affordable housing investments: Investment and other income (expense) included a $16.9 million ($10.1 million after tax) write down of the Companys investment in affordable housing in 2006. Gain on sale of investments: Investment and other income (expense) included a $7.0 million capital gain ($4.1 million after tax) on the sale of certain investment property in 2006. Income tax adjustments: reflects a $23.5 million benefit from the realization of a deferred tax asset. Discontinued operations: included a net loss of $2.0 million, primarily for the lease termination costs associated with a subtenant bankruptcy, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 and net income of $41.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 which is primarily due to the gain on the sale of Peak Technologies. Peak was sold on December 22, 2005. Operations: reflects improved operating income in the Global Print Solutions segment primarily due to increased volume and improved productivity partially offset by higher competitive prices. This net increase 20 Table of Contents is partially offset by slightly lower operating income in the Global Services segment and higher interest expense of $28.3 million due to the issuance of approximately $1.0 billion of debt in May 2005 related to the acquisition of Astron and an increase in short term borrowings in April 2006 related to the acquisition of OfficeTiger. See further details in the review of operating results by segment that follows below. Successes The strong 2006 financial results reflect net sales increases driven by acquisitions, new customer wins, in part enabled by the Companys reinvestment program, and expansion of business with current customers. In addition, the Company was able to pass on to customers the majority of continuing increases in paper prices. The net sales gains came despite the continuing impact of competitive price pressure in most industry segments. Sales growth was particularly strong in the international markets: Europe, Asia, and Latin America. The financial print and commercial businesses also experienced significant revenue growth. In addition, the Company achieved productivity gains that largely offset the impact of lower prices, higher energy costs and other inflationary cost increases. These productivity gains reflect the impact of restructuring actions, improved manufacturing efficiencies and procurement savings. Combined with the simplified organizational structure, the impact of changes in business mix and leverage from increased volume and cross sell initiatives, these productivity improvements are expected to enable the Company to maintain its operating margins despite the challenging price and cost environment. The acquisition of OfficeTiger in April 2006 was a further extension of the Company into the higher growth business process outsourcing sector. The acquisition and integration of OfficeTiger enabled the Company further to expand its service offerings to customers in both the U.S. and Europe. Challenges In the fourth quarter, the Company ceased using the Astron trade name and the business was renamed RR Donnelley Global Document Solutions. As a result, the Company recorded a non cash charge of $26.3 million for impairment of the related intangible asset. Global Document Solutions sales for 2006 were below its pro forma net sales for 2005. The lower sales were a result of loss of volume and lower prices on significant customers, primarily in the transactional print and mail business. In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recorded a non cash charge for impairment of goodwill of $110.0 million to reflect a reduction in the fair value of this business based on lower near term profit expectations. In 2006, this business took important steps to reduce costs by closing plants and rationalizing its product and service offerings. Management has developed additional improvement plans to strengthen the sales force, capitalize on large new business opportunities, strengthen strategic partnerships with complementary service providers and re brand the business as RR Donnelley Global Document Solutions. Management believes that these actions will result in strong top line growth for the Global Document Solutions business in 2007, with improved profitability following in future years. Effective in the fourth quarter of 2006, the Companys statement outsourcing business (formerly business communications services) was combined with the North American forms and labels business to create one business unit, forms, labels and statement printing. Net sales for the statement outsourcing business declined in 2006 compared to 2005, due to customer losses, in part due to customer consolidation, and volume declines. The loss of these customers is expected to result in further volume declines in 2007. Management has implemented cost controls partially to offset the impact of these declines and a refocused sales effort is in place to regain momentum in this industry segment. Overall, the North American forms and labels business continues to face difficult industry conditions due to continued electronic substitution and intense price competition related to excess industry capacity. Effective in the first quarter of 2006, the Canadian forms and labels business was combined with the Canadian statement 21 Table of Contents outsourcing and logistics businesses, and the combined Canadian business is included in the Global Services segment. Overall, the forms and labels business experienced a decrease in net sales compared to 2005. This decrease reflected the competitive price environment and volume declines in the forms business, partially offset by growth in the labels business. OUTLOOK Vision and Strategy RR Donnelleys vision is to be the worlds premier printing and print related services company by providing our customers with the highest quality products and services. The Companys strategy is focused on maximizing long term shareholder value by driving profitable growth, a continued focus on productivity, and acquiring and integrating complementary businesses. To increase shareholder value, the Company pursues three major strategic objectives. These objectives are summarized below, along with more specific areas of focus. Strategic Objective Focus Areas 2007 Priorities Profitable growth Targeted capital investments Accelerate cross selling Focus on higher growth sectors Capture segment share Integrated sales approach Leverage existing platform and relationships Implement large outsourcing wins Productivity Disciplined cost management Productivity focused investment plans Streamline / standardize processes Leverage scale to optimize procurement Streamline sales and operations Leverage offshore capabilities Targeted mergers and acquisitions Extend capabilities and service offerings Utilize strong balance sheet Disciplined due diligence and financial analysis Integrate recent acquisitions Capture synergies Reduce debt To generate profitable growth, the Company will continue to make targeted capital investments to support new business, accelerate cross selling to leverage the Companys broad customer relationships and increase the Companys focus on higher growth sectors such as digital print and business process outsourcing. The Company has made significant investments directed at improving the competitiveness of the Companys manufacturing platform. In addition to supporting growth, this investment has enhanced the platform through new technology that better meets customer needs and improves operating efficiency. The Companys platform provides differentiated solutions for its customers through its broad range of complementary print related services, strong logistics capabilities, technology leadership, management experience and customer relationships. Management believes productivity improvement and cost reduction are critical to the Companys competitiveness while enhancing the value the Company delivers to its customers. The Company has implemented strategic initiatives to reduce its overall cost structure and improve operating efficiency including the restructuring, reorganization and integration of operations, the expansion of internal cross selling and streamlining of administrative and support activities. Targeted acquisitions are another important component of the Companys strategy to extend its capabilities and its industry leadership. The Companys previously announced acquisitions of Banta and Perry Judds and its planned acquisition of Von Hoffmann are expected to offer customers greater capacity and flexibility, and further 22 Table of Contents secure the Companys position as a leader in the industry. The Company is focused on successfully integrating these acquisitions. The acquisition of Banta is expected to drive significant cost savings and additional capacity in 2007 while the Perry Judds and Von Hoffmann acquisitions are expected to reduce future capacity needs. The Company uses several key indicators to gauge progress towards achieving these objectives. These indicators include net sales growth, operating margins, cash flow from operations and capital expenditures. The Company targets long term net sales growth at or above industry levels, while maintaining operating margins. Combined with working capital management, this growth is expected to drive increases in cash flow from operations. Industry Environment The Company faces many challenges and risks operating globally in highly competitive markets. Item 1A, Risk Factors, discusses many of these issues, but the Companys strategy is primarily focused on meeting the challenges of industry wide price competition and the advancement of technology. Overcapacity and pricing environment The print and related services industry in general continues to have excess capacity and remains highly competitive. Across the Companys business segments, many competitors rely on price as a key competitive lever. Management expects that prices for the Companys products and services will therefore continue to be a focal point for customers in coming years. In this environment, the Company believes it needs to continue to lower its cost structure and extend into higher value service offerings. While the industry environment has been difficult for a number of years, the Company has demonstrated its ability to maintain and enhance margins through productivity and by offering higher value products and services. Technology Technological changes, such as the electronic distribution of documents and data, online distribution and hosting of media content, advances in digital printing, print on demand, and internet technologies continue to impact the market for the Companys products and services. As a substitute for print, the impact of these technologies has been felt most strongly in the forms and labels and statement outsourcing business, as electronic communication and transaction technology has eliminated or devalued the role of many traditional paper forms. These factors contributed to the $362.3 million non cash impairment charge for the North American forms and labels business in 2005. The future impact of technology on the Companys business is difficult to predict and could result in additional charges in the future. While new technologies present significant challenges to certain of the Companys traditional businesses, management believes that the Company is a leader in key technologies that, as customers continue to shift towards customized and higher valued added print, will be valuable sources of industry growth. These technologies include digital content management and premedia services, digital print for personalization and print on demand, and low cost document process management. In addition, the ability to offer compliance assurance and secure environments for print are increasingly important to customers. The Company continues to focus more of its growth investments in digital technologies in order to capitalize on these opportunities. Company Outlook Global Print Solutions net sales are expected to increase, mostly driven by the Banta and Perry Judds acquisitions. The Company expects the catalog and magazine sectors to remain competitive and the overall pricing environment, particularly in the long run business, to be more challenging. Net sales in the directories business are expected to decline in 2007 due to price reductions on contract renewals, timing of new contracts and the wind down of lost business. Volume growth is expected to offset, or exceed the impact of price 23 Table of Contents deterioration in the Asia, logistics, direct mail, book and commercial businesses. The commercial print and direct mail businesses are expected to have sales growth in 2007 due to favorable trends in digital print driven by shorter runs and quicker turnaround time. Strong continued growth in the export book sales and volume increases for telecommunications and technology customers are anticipated in Asia. The Company expects to offset price pressure through productivity initiatives including reduced maintenance expenses, cross selling across the Companys platform and by leveraging unique operational scale to optimize customer distribution costs. In addition, the Company expects to eliminate duplicative costs resulting from the Banta and Perry Judds acquisitions and its planned acquisition of Von Hoffmann over the course of 2007. Sales in the Global Services segment in 2007 are expected to increase moderately, with growth in financial print volume from international capital markets and domestic compliance work and new business wins in Global Document Solutions. In addition, the U.S. labels business and Canadian operations are expected to see further net sales increases from targeted new wins and 2006 cross sell success. Growth from existing customers is expected to result in net sales growth at OfficeTiger despite the loss of one major customer. Volume declines and lower pricing are expected to continue into 2007 for the statement outsourcing business. Additionally, the U.S. forms business is expected to experience continued price pressure due to overcapacity and electronic substitution. Management remains focused on improving sales performance and reducing operating costs in the statement outsourcing and forms and labels business. Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has defined a companys most critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of its financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, the Company has identified the following critical accounting policies and judgments. Although management believes that its estimates and assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon information available when they are made. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue for the majority of its products upon shipment to the customer and the transfer of title and risk of loss. Contracts generally specify F.O.B. shipping point terms. Under agreements with certain customers, custom products may be stored by the Company for future delivery. In these situations, the Company receives a logistics and warehouse management fee for the services it provides. In certain of these cases, delivery and billing schedules are outlined in the customer agreement and product revenue is recognized when manufacturing is complete, title and risk of loss transfer to the customer, and there is a reasonable assurance as to collectibility. Because the majority of products are customized, product returns are not significant; however, the Company accrues for the estimated amount of customer credits at the time of sale. Billings for third party shipping and handling costs are included in net sales. Revenue from services is recognized as services are performed. Long term contract revenue is recognized based on the completed contract method or percentage of completion method. The percentage of completion method is used only for contracts that will take longer than three months to complete, where project stages are clearly defined and can be invoiced and where the contract contains enforceable rights by both parties. Revenue related to short term service contracts and contracts that do not meet the percentage of completion criteria is recognized when the contract is completed. 24 Table of Contents Within the Companys financial print business, which serves the global financial services end market, the Company produces highly customized materials such as regulatory S filings, initial public offerings and EDGAR related services. Revenue is recognized for these services following final delivery of the printed product or upon completion of the service performed. Revenues related to the Companys premedia operations, which include digital content management, photography, color services and page production, are recognized in accordance with the terms of the contract, typically upon completion of the performed service and acceptance by the customer. With respect to the Companys logistics operations, whose operations include the delivery of printed material, the Company recognizes revenue upon completion of the delivery of services. The Company records deferred revenue in situations where amounts are invoiced but the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are not met. Such revenue is recognized when all criteria are subsequently met. Accounts Receivable The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is reviewed for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments for products and services. Specific customer provisions are made when a review of significant outstanding amounts, utilizing information about customer creditworthiness and current economic trends, indicates that collection is doubtful. In addition, provisions are made at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable and the Companys historical collection experience. The Companys estimates of the recoverability of amounts due could change, and additional changes to the allowance could be necessary in the future if a major customers creditworthiness deteriorates, or if actual defaults are higher than the Companys historical experience. Inventories The Company records inventories at the lower of cost or market values. Most of the Companys inventories are valued under the last in first out (LIFO) basis. Changes in inflation indices may cause an increase or decrease in the value of inventories accounted for under the LIFO costing method. The Company maintains inventory allowances for excess and obsolete inventories determined in part by future demand forecasts. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for its products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and customer requirements, the Company could be required to increase its inventory allowances. Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets The Companys methodology for allocating the purchase price of acquisitions is based on established valuation techniques that reflect the consideration of a number of factors including valuations performed by third party appraisers. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the fair value assigned to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Based on its organization structure, the Company has identified fourteen reporting units for which cash flows are determinable and to which goodwill is allocated. Goodwill is either assigned to a specific reporting unit or allocated between reporting units based on the relative excess fair value of each reporting unit. When the Companys organization structure changes, new or revised reporting units may be identified, and goodwill is reallocated, if necessary, based on relative excess fair value. The Company performs goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis as of October 31, or more frequently in certain circumstances. The Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the fair value, the Company performs an additional fair value measurement calculation to determine the impairment loss, which is charged to operations. In 2006, the Company recorded a non cash charge of $110.0 million to reflect impairment of goodwill in the 25 Table of Contents Global Document Solutions reporting unit. As part of its annual impairment analysis for this reporting unit, the Company engaged a third party appraisal firm to assist the Company in its determination of the fair value of the unit, in part based on estimates of future net sales, operating margin and cash flows developed by management. In order to determine the amount of goodwill impairment, the Company also used the third party appraisal firm to assist the Company in its determination of the value of significant intangible long lived assets of the reporting unit. The Company evaluates the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and certain identifiable intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company performs impairment tests of indefinite lived intangible assets on an annual basis or more frequently in certain circumstances. Factors considered important which could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the assets or the strategy for the overall business, a significant decrease in the market value of the assets or significant negative industry or economic trends. When the Company determines that the carrying amount of long lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the indicators, the assets are assessed for impairment based on the estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recorded for the excess of the assets carrying amount over its fair value. All of the Companys goodwill and long lived asset impairment assessments are based on established fair value techniques, including discounted cash flow analysis. These analyses require management to estimate both future cash flows and an appropriate discount rate to reflect the risk inherent in the current business model. The assumptions supporting valuation models, including discount rates, are determined using the best estimates as of the date of the impairment review. These estimates are subject to significant uncertainty, and differences in actual future results may require further impairment charges, which may be significant. Certain investments in affordable housing, which are included in other noncurrent assets, are recorded at cost, as adjusted for the Companys share of any declines in the fair value of the underlying properties that are deemed to be other than temporary. The Companys basis for determining fair value of the underlying properties requires applying managements judgment using a significant number of estimates. Management derives its estimates of fair value using remaining future tax credits and tax deductions to be realized and expected residual values upon sale or disposition of the Companys ownership interests. Because most of the tax credits from these investments were received in prior periods, the current values of these investments are primarily attributable to residual values, which are inherently more uncertain. Expected residual values are developed from industry assumptions and cash flow projections provided by the underlying partnerships and include certain assumptions with respect to operating costs, debt levels and certain market data related to the properties such as assumed vacancy rates. Should these assumptions differ from actual results in the future, the Company might be required to further write down its carrying value of these investments. In 2006, the Company recorded a write down of investments in affordable housing of $16.9 million. Commitments and Contingencies The Company is subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to environmental, employment and other matters, as well as preference claims related to amounts received from customers prior to their seeking bankruptcy protection. Periodically, the Company reviews the status of each significant matter and assesses potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, the Company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the Company reassesses the potential liability related to pending claims and might revise its estimates. 26 Table of Contents The Company purchases third party insurance for workers compensation, automobile and general liability claims that exceed a certain level. The Company is responsible for the payment of claims below these insured limits, and consulting actuaries are utilized to estimate the obligation associated with incurred losses, which is recorded in accrued liabilities. Historical loss development factors for both the company and the industry are utilized to project the future development of incurred losses, and these amounts are adjusted based upon actual claims experience and settlement. If actual experience of claims development is significantly different from these estimates, an adjustment in future periods may be required. Restructuring The Company records restructuring charges when liabilities are incurred as part of a plan approved by management, with the appropriate level of authority, for the elimination of duplicative functions, the closure of facilities, or the exit of a line of business, generally in order to reduce the Companys overall cost structure. Certain restructuring costs are recognized as a cost of acquisitions because the plans were contemplated at the time of the acquisition and were, therefore, included in the purchase price allocation. These restructuring charges and related liabilities are based on contractual obligations or managements best estimates at the time the charges are recorded. The restructuring liabilities might change in future periods based on several factors that could differ from original estimates and assumptions. These include, but are not limited to: contract settlements on terms different than originally expected; ability to sublease properties based on market conditions at rates or on timelines different than originally estimated; or changes to original plans as a result of mergers or acquisitions. Such changes might result in reversals of or additions to restructuring charges that could affect amounts reported in the consolidated statements of operations of future periods. Accounting for Income Taxes Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Additionally, the Companys tax returns are subject to audit by various U.S. and foreign tax authorities. The Company accrues for uncertain tax positions for which it believes a loss is probable and estimable. Although management believes that its estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of uncertain tax positions may be materially different from that which is reflected in the Companys historical income tax provisions and accruals. The Company has recorded deferred tax assets related to domestic and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards. Limitations on the utilization of these tax assets generally apply; accordingly, management has provided a valuation allowance to reduce certain of these deferred tax assets when management has concluded that, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. If actual results differ from these estimates, or the estimates are adjusted in future periods, adjustments to the valuation allowance might need to be recorded. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans The Company records annual amounts relating to its pension and postretirement benefit plans based on calculations which include various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, assumed rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. The Company reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate to do so. The effect of modifications is generally deferred and amortized over future periods. The Company believes that the assumptions utilized in recording its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on its experience, market conditions and input from its actuaries and investment advisors. On December 31, 2006, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of statement No. 158, 27 Table of Contents Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132R, (SFAS 158). SFAS 158 requires plan sponsors of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans) to recognize the funded status of their postretirement benefit plans in the statement of financial position, measure the fair value of plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the fiscal year end statement of financial position, and provide additional disclosures. The effect of adopting SFAS 158 on the Companys financial position at December 31, 2006 has been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The pension and postretirement obligations are measured as of September 30 for all years presented. The Company determines its assumption for the discount rate to be used for purposes of computing annual service and interest costs based on an index of high quality corporate bond yields and matched funding yield curve analysis as of that date. The Company employs a total return investment approach for its pension and postretirement benefit plans whereby a mix of equities and fixed income investments are used to maximize the long term return of pension and postretirement plan assets. The intent of this strategy is to minimize plan expenses by outperforming the growth in plan liabilities over the long run. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status, and corporate financial condition. The investment portfolios contain a diversified blend of equity and fixed income investments. Furthermore, equity investments are diversified across geography and market capitalization through investments in U.S. large capitalization stocks, U.S. small capitalization stocks and international securities. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through annual liability measurements, periodic asset/liability studies and quarterly investment portfolio reviews. The expected long term rate of return for plan assets is based upon many factors including expected asset allocations, historical asset returns, current and expected future market conditions, risk and active management premiums. The prospective target asset allocation percentage for both the pension and postretirement benefit plans is approximately 75% for equity securities and approximately 25% for fixed income and other securities. The expected return on plan assets assumption at September 30, 2006 ranged from 8.0% to 8.5% for the Companys major U.S. and Canadian pension plans and was 8.0% for the Companys funded U.S. postretirement medical benefit plans. The discount rates used at September 30, 2006 to measure pension and postretirement benefit obligations of the major U.S. and Canadian plans ranged from 5.0% to 6.0%. A one percentage point decrease in the discount rates at September 30, 2006 would increase the pension plans accumulated benefit obligation and projected benefit obligation by approximately $370.2 million and $382.3 million, respectively. The Company also maintains several pension plans in international locations. The assets, liabilities and expense associated with these plans are not material to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The expected returns on plan assets and discount rates for these plans are determined based on each plans investment approach, local interest rates, and plan participant profiles. The health care cost trend rates used in valuing the Companys postretirement benefit obligations are established based upon actual health care cost trends and consultation with actuaries and benefit providers. At September 30, 2006, the current weighted average health care trend rate assumption was 8.9% for pre age 65 participants and 9.1% for post age 65 participants. The current trend rate gradually decreases to an ultimate trend rate of 6.0%. A one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): Postretirement benefit obligation $ 11.0 Total postretirement benefit service and interest cost components 0.9 28 Table of Contents A one percentage point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): Postretirement benefit obligation $ (9.6 ) Total postretirement benefit service and interest cost components net (0.8 ) Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than non cancelable operating lease commitments, the Company does not have off balance sheet arrangements, financings, or special purpose entities. Financial Review In the financial review that follows, the Company discusses its consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and certain other information. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and related notes that begin on page F 1. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 The following table shows net sales and income (loss) from continuing operations for each of the Companys reportable segments. A complete description of the Companys reportable segments is included in Item 1, Business. Net Sales (1) Income (Loss)from ContinuingOperations (1) Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2006 2005 (in millions) Global Print Solutions $ 5,727.2 $ 5,277.5 $ 827.3 $ 719.4 Global Services 3,589.4 3,152.7 140.6 (65.5 ) Total operating segments 9,316.6 8,430.2 967.9 653.9 Corporate (217.2 ) (203.5 ) Total continuing operations $ 9,316.6 $ 8,430.2 $ 750.7 $ 450.4 (1) Reflects the results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates. Consolidated Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased $886.4 million, or 10.5%, to $9,316.6 million versus the prior year. Of this increase, slightly more than half was due to acquisitions, most significantly Astron and Office Tiger. The increase in net sales was also driven by volume growth across all lines of business in the Global Print Solutions segment and in the financial print, Latin American, and Canadian operations within the Global Services segment, partially offset by the continuing impact of competitive price pressures in most industry sectors. Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $750.7 million compared to $450.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase was primarily driven by a reduction in restructuring and impairment charges of $213.7 million. In addition, other drivers include the increase in net sales, productivity improvements, and the benefits of restructuring activities, partially offset by increased 29 Table of Contents depreciation and amortization expense and higher selling and administrative expenses primarily due to acquisitions. Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) increased $708.6 million to $6,798.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 versus the prior year primarily due to acquisitions, increased volume and higher paper prices. In addition, the Company revised its allocation of benefits expenses in the first quarter of 2006, which resulted in an increase to cost of sales relative to the first quarter of 2005. This increase in benefits cost was completely offset by a decrease in benefits cost allocated to selling, general and administrative expenses. Cost of sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales increased from 72.2% to 73.0% due to the reallocation of benefits expenses, continuing price competition in most markets, higher energy costs and the impact of higher paper prices partially offset by cost reductions achieved through restructuring activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) increased $52.9 million to $1,097.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 versus the prior year primarily due to acquisitions and other net sales increases, partially offset by the change in the allocation of benefits expenses described above. Other items impacting this comparison included an increase in employee benefit costs and bad debt expense in 2006, partially offset by cost reductions due to productivity efforts and restructuring. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated net sales decreased to 11.8% in 2006 from 12.4% in 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded a net restructuring and impairment provision of $206.1 million, compared to $419.8 million in 2005. In 2006, these charges included $110.0 million for the impairment of goodwill for the Global Document Solutions business within the Global Services segment and $30.9 million for impairment of assets, of which $26.3 million reflects the write down of the Astron trade name intangible asset. In addition, these charges included $54.1 million for workforce reductions of 1,396 employees (1,182 of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2006), associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities and $11.1 million of other restructuring costs primarily related to lease terminations in exited facilities. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the charges included $362.3 million for the impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for the North America forms and labels business within the Global Services segment; $15.7 million primarily related to the relocation of the Companys global corporate headquarters within Chicago; $15.9 million related to workforce reductions of 500 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2006); and other costs incurred to restructure operations within the business segments. Management expects that restructuring activities will continue in 2007 as the Company continues to streamline its manufacturing, sales and administrative operations. Payments on certain lease obligations associated with various restructuring plans are scheduled to continue until 2011. The Company anticipates that payments associated with employee terminations relating to existing restructuring actions will be substantially completed by the end of 2007. Depreciation and amortization increased $38.3 million to $463.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to acquisitions. Depreciation and amortization included $73.2 million and $58.3 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, trade names, patents and covenants not to compete for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net interest expense increased by $28.3 million to $139.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 versus 2005 due to the issuance of approximately $1.0 billion of debt in May 2005 related to the acquisition of Astron and the increase in short term borrowings in April 2006 related to the acquisition of OfficeTiger. Net investment and other expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $10.4 million versus $7.9 million in 2005. Included in net investment and other expense were charges of $18.4 million (including an impairment charge of $16.9 million) and $8.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, 30 Table of Contents reflecting declines in the underlying estimated fair market values of the Companys affordable housing investments. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded a gain of $7.0 million on the sale of certain investment property. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006 was 32.6%. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the effective income tax rate was 71.5%, primarily reflecting the charge for impairment of goodwill of $353.6 million, for which the Company did not record any tax benefit. The decrease in the effective rate in 2006 also reflects the impact of a $23.5 million benefit from the realization of a U.S. deferred tax asset and the reversal of reserves for tax contingencies of $27.3 million. Earnings from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $402.6 million, or $1.84 per diluted share, compared to $95.6 million or $0.44 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2005. In addition to the factors discussed above, the per share results reflect an increase in weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 2.2 million shares primarily due to the vesting and issuance of share based compensation and additional awards during the year. The net loss from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 of $2.0 million primarily reflected costs resulting from a sub lessee bankruptcy related to a facility previously occupied by the Companys package logistics business. Net income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $41.5 million, primarily related to the Peak Technologies business (Peak). Net income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 included a net gain of $55.2 million on the sale of Peak, including pre tax impairment charges of $36.6 million and tax benefits of $93.5 million. Global Print Solutions The following table summarizes net sales, income from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability within the Global Print Solutions segment: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 (in millions) Net sales $ 5,727.2 $ 5,277.5 Income from continuing operations 827.3 719.4 Operating Margin 14.4 % 13.6 % Items impacting comparability: Restructuring and impairment charges net 12.1 15.5 Net sales for the Global Print Solutions segment for the year ended December 31, 2006 were $5,727.2 million, an increase of $449.7 million, or 8.5%, compared to 2005. Of this increase, approximately 30% was due to the acquisitions of Asia Printers book business, Charlestown, Poligrafia and Spencer. The remaining increase resulted from volume increases across all businesses in the segment and higher paper prices passed on to customers, partially offset by downward price pressures. Magazine, catalog and retail net sales increased, driven by volume increases from new customer contracts, increased business with existing customers and higher paper prices that were passed on to customers, partially offset by lower prices associated with major contract renewals. In the book business, the increased net sales were primarily driven by additional volume from telecommunications and technology customers partially offset by declines in the juvenile sector and lower prices on major customer contract renewals. Net sales for the directories business also increased, primarily reflecting higher volume from most major customers, partially offset by price declines on major contract renewals. Logistics net sales increased primarily due to volume growth across most service lines. Net sales in the direct mail business grew as increased long run marketing programs for financial and not for profit markets more than offset revenue decreases related to prior year facility closures and customer losses. Short run commercial print net sales were up considerably from 2005 driven by volume growth across most regions, primarily from large corporate customers. In Europe, the increase in net sales reflected the Poligrafia acquisition, higher volume for telecommunication and technology and increases in directory, magazine 31 Table of Contents and retail volume. In Asia, the Companys net sales improvement was driven by strong gains in book production for the U.S. market, both from the Asia Printers acquisition and organic growth. Global Print Solutions income from continuing operations increased $107.9 million driven by higher volume and improved productivity, partially offset by the impact of competitive price pressures, inflationary increases in wages, benefits and other costs, and higher energy costs. Operating margins in Global Print Solutions increased to 14.4% in 2006 from 13.6% in 2005. Global Services The following table summarizes net sales, income from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability within the Global Services segment: Years EndedDecember 31, 2006 2005 (in millions) Net sales $ 3,589.4 $ 3,152.7 Income from continuing operations 140.6 (65.5 ) Operating margin 3.9 % (2.1% ) Items impacting comparability: Restructuring and impairment charges net 166.5 379.4 Net sales for the Global Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2006 were $3,589.4 million, an increase of $436.7 million, or 13.8%, compared to 2005. Of this increase, approximately 80% was due to the acquisitions of Astron, Office Tiger and Asia Printers financial print business. The remaining increase in net sales was primarily driven by volume growth in most of the segments businesses, partially offset by competitive price pressure. Financial print net sales increased from 2005 driven by growth in international capital markets transactions and investment company compliance services in the U.S. Net sales for Global Document Solutions declined from 2005 pro forma net sales due to loss of volume and lower prices on significant customers. Net sales in the statement outsourcing business declined in 2006 versus 2005 due to volume declines and customer losses. Overall, North America forms and labels experienced a decline in net sales as this sector continues to be adversely affected by electronic substitution and intense price competition related to excess industry capacity. Canadian net sales, which includes forms and labels, statement outsourcing, logistics and commercial print net sales, increased from 2005 due to volume growth across all businesses. Net sales increased in Latin America, primarily driven by book and commercial print volume growth. Digital solutions net sales increased slightly as a result of increased volume and work for new customers. Income from continuing operations increased $206.1 million from 2005 driven by the lower restructuring and impairment charges, increased net sales and productivity improvements, partially offset by the ongoing impact of competitive price pressures. In 2006, restructuring and impairment charges included $110.0 million for the impairment of goodwill for the Global Document Solutions business and a $26.3 write off of the Astron trade name. Operating margins increased to 3.9% in 2006 from (2.1%) in 2005. 32 Table of Contents Corporate The following table summarizes operating expenses and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as Corporate: Years EndedDecember 31, 2006 2005 (in millions) Operating expenses $ 217.2 $ 203.5 Items impacting comparability: Restructuring and impairment charges net 27.5 24.9 Corporate operating expenses increased $13.7 million, primarily reflecting increases in restructuring and impairment charges, unallocated employee benefit costs and higher provision for bad debts, partially offset by cost reductions from productivity efforts and restructuring actions. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 Incomefromcontinuingoperations Operatingmargin Netearnings Netearningsperdilutedshare For the year ended December 31, 2004 $ 459.2 6.4 % $ 178.3 $ 0.88 2005 restructuring and impairment charges net (419.8 ) (5.0 %) (395.6 ) (1.83 ) 2005 integration charges (8.3 ) (0.1 %) (5.2 ) (0.02 ) 2004 restructuring and impairment charges net 107.4 1.5 % 63.7 0.31 2004 integration charges 80.8 1.1 % 47.9 0.23 Write down of affordable housing investments 8.5 0.04 Gain on sale of investments (13.9 ) (0.07 ) Income tax adjustments (34.1 ) (0.16 ) Discontinued operations 121.5 0.58 Operations 231.1 1.4 % 166.0 0.67 For the year ended December 31, 2005 $ 450.4 5.3 % $ 137.1 $ 0.63 2005 restructuring and impairment charges net: included $362.3 million for impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets related to the North American forms and labels business in the Global Services segment; $15.9 million for employee termination costs primarily associated with restructuring actions related to the Moore Wallace acquisition and other actions to restructure operations; $33.8 million of other restructuring costs, including lease termination costs associated with the relocation of the Companys corporate headquarters; and $7.8 million of impairment of long lived assets. 2005 integration charges: included $8.3 million of post acquisition integration charges related to the Moore Wallace acquisition. 2004 restructuring and impairment charges net: included $81.6 million for employee termination costs primarily associated with restructuring actions related to the Moore Wallace acquisition and other actions to restructure operations; $3.5 million of other restructuring costs, including lease termination costs associated with the relocation of the Companys corporate headquarters; and $22.3 million of impairment of long lived assets. 2004 integration charges: included $80.8 million of post acquisition integration changes related to Moore Wallace acquisition. 33 Table of Contents Write down of affordable housing investments: included a $14.4 million annual pretax ($8.5 million after tax) write down of the Companys investment in affordable housing in 2004. Gain on sale of investments: included a net gain on the sale of certain investments in Latin America of $14.3 million ($13.9 million after tax) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004. Income tax adjustments: included $30.5 million in reversals of tax accruals for uncertain tax positions upon expiration of certain state statutory limitation periods and $7.1 million for the reversal of a non U.S. valuation allowance, partially offset for other non recurring charges. Discontinued operations: included a net gain of $55.2 million in 2005 for the sale of Peak Technologies, which was sold on December 22, 2005, and a net loss of $80.0 million in 2004 which is primarily due to restructuring and impairment charges related to Momentum Logistics Inc. and a loss on the sale of package logistics. Operations: reflects improved operating income in Global Print Solutions, partially offset by higher interest expense of $24.8 million due to the issuance of approximately $1.0 billion of debt in March 2004 and May 2005 related to the acquisitions of Moore Wallace and Astron, respectively. See further details in the review of operating results by segment that follows below. The following table shows net sales and income (loss) from continuing operations for each of the Companys reportable segments. A complete description of the Companys reportable segments is included in Item 1, Business. Net Sales (1) Income (Loss)from ContinuingOperations (1) Years Ended December 31, Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2005 2004 (in millions) Global Print Solutions $ 5,277.5 $ 4,666.1 $ 719.4 $ 511.8 Global Services 3,152.7 2,490.3 (65.5 ) 173.8 Total operating segments 8,430.2 7,156.4 653.9 685.6 Corporate (203.5 ) (226.4 ) Total continuing operations $ 8,430.2 $ 7,156.4 $ 450.4 $ 459.2 (1) Reflects the results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates. Consolidated Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased $1,273.8 million, or 17.8%, to $8,430.2 million versus the prior year. Of this increase, approximately 75% was due to acquisitions, most significantly Moore Wallace and Astron. In addition, the increase was driven by volume growth across all businesses in the Global Print Solutions segment. The Global Services segment net sales increased due to the impact of the Moore Wallace and Astron acquisitions offset by price and volume declines in the forms and labels business, reflecting the continuing downward trend in demand due to continued electronic substitution primarily in the forms business. Net sales also reflect the pass through to customers of higher materials prices, offset by the continuing impact of competitive price pressures in most markets. Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $450.4 million compared to $459.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This decrease reflected restructuring and impairment charges of $419.8 million compared to $107.4 million in 2004. These charges include a non cash charge of $362.3 million for impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets related to the North America forms 34 Table of Contents and labels business in the Global Services segment. The impact of these charges was mostly offset by increased earnings from acquisitions, growth in net sales, cost reductions achieved through restructuring actions, productivity efforts, procurement savings and lower acquisition related costs (including fair value adjustments for inventory) of $72.5 million. Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) increased $820.7 million to $6,090.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 versus the prior year primarily due to acquisitions and the increased net sales volume. Cost of sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales decreased from 73.6% to 72.2% primarily due to cost reductions achieved through restructuring activities and incremental procurement savings, partially offset by the impact of higher paper prices which were largely passed through to customers and continuing price competition in most markets. Cost of sales for the year ended December 31, 2005 also included the fair value adjustments for inventory of acquired business of $4.1 million compared to $66.9 million of similar adjustments in the year ended December 31, 2004 due to the acquisition of Moore Wallace. Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) increased $110.0 million to $1,044.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 versus the prior year primarily due to acquisitions and other net sales increases. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated net sales decreased to 12.4% in 2005 from 13.1% in 2004. This decrease was primarily due to benefits achieved from restructuring activities. Other items impacting this comparison include $7.8 million related to recovery of an international value added tax refund and the collection of a bankruptcy receivable which was previously written off, lower bad debt expense and provisions of $27.3 million recorded in the prior year related to litigation, insurance, termination benefits, and sales and use taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recorded a net restructuring and impairment provision of $419.8 million, compared to $107.4 million in 2004. These charges include $362.3 million for the impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for the North America forms and labels business within the Global Services segment; $15.7 million primarily related to the relocation of the Companys global corporate headquarters within Chicago; $15.9 million related to workforce reductions of 500 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2006); and other costs incurred to restructure operations within the business segments. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the charges reflected workforce reductions of 1,368 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2006), substantially all related to the elimination of duplicative administrative functions resulting from the acquisition of Moore Wallace. Depreciation and amortization increased $39.5 million to $425.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004, primarily due to acquisitions. Depreciation and amortization included $58.3 million and $37.1 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, trade names, patents and non compete covenants for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Net interest expense increased by $24.8 million to $110.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 versus 2004 primarily reflecting interest expense related to the issuance of approximately $1.0 billion of debt in March 2004 and $1.0 billion of debt in May 2005 due to the acquisitions of Moore Wallace and Astron, respectively. Net investment and other expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $7.9 million versus $16.5 million in 2004. Included in investment and other expense, net, were charges of $8.1 million and $34.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, reflecting declines in the underlying estimated fair market values of the Companys affordable housing investments. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a gain of $14.3 million on the sale of certain investments in Latin America. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2005 was 71.5%, primarily reflecting the charge for impairment of goodwill of $353.6 million, for which the Company did not record any tax benefit. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the effective income tax rate was 25.9%. In addition to the impact of the 35 Table of Contents goodwill impairment charge, the higher effective rate in 2005 reflects lower reversals of state tax contingencies upon the expiration of certain state statutory limitations ($6.7 million in 2005 compared to $30.5 million in 2004), lower affordable housing credits ($2.7 million and $8.8 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively) and the impact of the 2004 sale of an investment in Latin America. These impacts were partially offset by the reduction of $13.5 million in non U.S. valuation allowances compared to total reductions of non U.S. valuation allowances of $7.1 million in 2004. Earnings from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $95.6 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, compared to $264.9, million or $1.30 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2004. In addition to the factors discussed above, the per share results reflect an increase in weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 12.5 million shares primarily due to the acquisition of Moore Wallace, partially offset by share repurchases. Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $41.5 million and was primarily related to Peak. The loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $80.0 million, and included the results of Momentum Logistics, Inc. (MLI) and package logistics prior to their dispositions. A net gain on the sale of Peak of $55.2 million, including pre tax impairment charges of $36.6 million and tax benefits of $93.5 million, is included in the income from discontinued operations, net of tax, compared to $118.3 million ($59.6 million after tax) in impairment charges and loss on sale for MLI and the Companys package logistics business included in the 2004 loss from discontinued operations, net of tax. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of $6.6 million, net of taxes of $4.3 million, reflecting the adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46R Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. The charge reflects the difference between the carrying amount of the Companys investments in certain partnerships related to affordable housing and the underlying carrying values of the partnerships upon consolidating these entities into the Companys financial statements. Management does not believe that the consolidation of these partnerships will have an ongoing material effect on the Companys consolidated annual results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Global Print Solutions The following table summarizes net sales, income from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability within the Global Print Solutions segment: Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 (in millions) Net sales $ 5,277.5 $ 4,666.1 Income from continuing operations 719.4 511.8 Operating Margin 13.6 % 11.0 % Items impacting comparability: Restructuring and impairment charges net 15.5 49.6 Net sales for the Global Print Solutions segment for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $5,277.5 million, an increase of $611.4 million, or 13.1%, compared to 2004. Of this increase, approximately 20% was due to the Moore Wallace, Asia Printers, Charlestown, Poligrafia and Spencer acquisitions. The remaining increase resulted from strong volume increases across all businesses in the segment and higher paper prices passed on to customers, partially offset by downward price pressures. Net sales increases in the magazine, catalog and retail business were driven by volume increases from new customer contracts, increased business with existing customers and higher paper prices that were passed on to customers, partially offset by lower prices 36 Table of Contents associated with major contract renewals. In the book business, the increased net sales reflected higher consumer, education, and juvenile book volume. Consumer and juvenile volume was driven by strong performance of customers titles, and education volume reflected the impact of increased elementary and high school textbook volume driven by state adoption cycles. Net sales in the book business also reflected gains in the telecommunications and technology market and the impact of higher paper prices, partially offset by lower prices on major customer contract renewals. Net sales for the directories business also increased, primarily reflecting higher volume from most major customers and the impact of higher paper prices passed on to customers. Logistics net sales increased due to the Moore Wallace acquisition, strong volumes in the domestic print platform, growth in third party sales and higher fuel prices passed on to customers. Net sales in the direct mail business grew as increased long run marketing programs for financial and not for profit markets more than offset revenue decreases related to prior year facility closures and customer losses. In addition to the impact of the Moore Wallace acquisition, short run commercial print net sales were up slightly from 2004 as pricing pressures nearly offset volume growth. Net sales in Europe and Asia increased sharply from 2004. In Europe, this increase reflected higher telecommunication and technology, directory, magazine and retail volume, reflecting further penetration in these markets and the acquisition of Poligrafia. In Asia, the Companys net sales improvement was driven by strong gains in book production for the U.S. market, both from the Asia Printers acquisition and organic growth. Asian volume increases also reflected strong growth with telecommunications and technology customers. Global Print Solutions income from continuing operations increased $207.6 million, including the impact of lower restructuring and impairment charges, and integration charges of $34.1 million. In addition to the net sales increase, the increase in income from continuing operations included the benefits of cost reduction actions and procurement savings, partially offset by inflationary increases in wages, benefits and energy costs. The significant growth in operating income was achieved across all of the segments businesses. Operating margins in Global Print Solutions increased to 13.6% in 2005 from 11.0% in 2004. Global Services The following table summarizes net sales, income from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability within the Global Services segment: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 (in millions) Net sales $ 3,152.7 $ 2,490.3 Income from continuing operations (65.5 ) 173.8 Operating margin (2.1 %) 7.0 % Items impacting comparability: Restructuring and impairment charges net 379.4 38.1 Net sales for the Global Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $3,152.7 million, an increase of $662.4 million, or 26.6%, compared to 2004. Substantially all of this increase was due to the acquisitions of Moore Wallace, Astron and Asia Printers financial print business. The remaining increase in net sales was primarily driven by the financial print business which experienced a strong increase in net sales compared to 2004, primarily driven by volume in services to the mutual fund industry. Premedia net sales increased, also driven by higher print volumes, as well as work for new customers, offset by continuing price pressures in this sector. Excluding the impact of the Moore Wallace acquisition, both the U.S. and Canadian forms and labels businesses experienced a decline in net sales as this industry was adversely affected by electronic substitution and intense price competition related to excess industry capacity. Net sales in Latin America, including the commercial print and catalog, magazine and book businesses, increased due to higher volume and favorable foreign currency exchange rates. 37 Table of Contents Income from continuing operations decreased $239.3 million from 2004 primarily reflecting the non cash charge for impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets of $362.3 million in 2005. Offsetting the impairment charge was income due to acquisitions, financial print and premedia volume growth, benefits achieved from restructuring actions, including plant consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives. Net restructuring and impairment charges increased $341.3 million from 2004. Operating margins decreased to (2.1%) in 2005 from 7.0% in 2004. Corporate The following table summarizes operating expenses and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as Corporate: Years EndedDecember 31, 2005 2004 (in millions) Operating expenses $ 203.5 $ 226.4 Items impacting comparability: Restructuring and impairment charges net 24. 9 19.7 Corporate operating expenses decreased $22.9 million despite an increase in restructuring, impairment and integration charges of $5.0 million. In 2005, $15.7 million of the net restructuring and impairment charges were related to the consolidation and relocation of the global headquarters within Chicago. The 2005 corporate expenses reflect the inclusion of Moore Wallace for a full year compared to the prior years corporate expense that only included corporate expense attributable to Moore Wallace after the acquisition date. The decrease in corporate expense reflects the benefits achieved through restructuring actions and cost containment initiatives, partially offset by increased incentive compensation expenses. RESTRUCTURING, IMPAIRMENT, AND ACQUISITION RELATED CHARGES During 2006, the Company recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $206.1 million. These charges included $110.0 million for the non cash impairment of goodwill for the Global Document Solutions business within the Global Services segment; $30.9 million for impairment of assets of which $26.3 million reflects the non cash write down of the Astron trade name intangible asset; and $11.1 million of other restructuring costs, primarily lease termination costs. Additionally, the Company recorded $54.1 million for employee termination costs, of which, $19.1 million was for management and other staff reductions associated with the Companys management structure realignment in the fourth quarter. This realignment will result in the elimination of approximately 275 positions and is expected to result in cost savings between $10 and $20 million in 2007. For 2005, the Company recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $419.8 million. These charges included $362.3 million for the non cash impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for the North American forms and labels business within the Global Services segment; $15.9 million related to employee termination costs; $33.8 million of other restructuring costs related to lease termination and relocation costs; and $7.8 million of other impairment charges. For 2004, the Company recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $107.4 million. These charges included $81.6 million for employee termination costs substantially all of which related to the elimination of duplicative administrative functions resulting from the Moore Wallace acquisition and the reorganization of certain operational activities; $3.5 million of other restructuring costs related to lease termination costs; and $22.3 million for the impairment of long lived assets in the Global Print Solutions and Global Services segments. In 2007, the Company expects to realize further cost savings associated with the restructuring actions taken in 2006, primarily through reduced employee and facility costs. The Company anticipates that payments 38 Table of Contents associated with lease exit costs ($9.1 million) will be substantially complete by 2011. Market conditions and the Companys ability to sublease these properties could affect the ultimate charge and cash payments related to these lease obligations. The Company expects to identify further cost reduction opportunities within both current and newly acquired businesses, which may result in additional restructuring charges. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES LIQUIDITY The Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to support the ongoing activities of the businesses and to invest in future growth to create value for its shareholders. Operating cash flows are the Companys primary source of liquidity and are expected to be used for, among other things, interest and principal on the Companys debt obligations, dividend payments that may be approved by the board of directors, capital expenditures as necessary to support growth and productivity improvement, completion of restructuring programs, additional acquisitions and future common stock repurchases based upon market conditions. Additional sources of liquidity include cash and cash equivalents of $211.4 million, a commercial paper program and credit facilities described under Capital Resources below. Cash Flows From Operating Activities 2006 compared to 2005 Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $903.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations of $971.5 million for the same period last year. The decrease was the result of higher cash payments for employee incentive compensation, resulting from improved financial performance in 2005 compared to 2004, and for income taxes. Payments associated with new customer contracts also increased and accounts payable increased less than in 2005 due to the timing of vendor payments. In addition, interest payments increased as a result of additional debt used to finance the Astron and OfficeTiger acquisitions. These uses of cash were partially offset by higher earnings and a smaller increase in inventories and accounts receivable. 2005 compared to 2004 Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $971.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations of $759.4 million for the same period in 2004. The increase reflects the impact of acquisitions and improved operating results driven by volume growth and cost reduction actions. Cash Flows From Investing Activities 2006 compared to 2005 Net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $608.4 million versus net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations of $1,621.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2006, capital expenditures were $374.3 million versus $471.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease reflects lower spending in the Global Print Solutions segments domestic platform partially offset by increased investment in expansion projects to support volume growth in the Global Print Solutions segments Asian and European businesses and capital spending at acquired businesses. The Company continues to fund capital expenditures primarily through cash provided by operations. The Company expects that capital expenditures for 2007 will be between $450 and $475 million. Net cash used for acquisition of businesses included $248.8 million for the acquisition of OfficeTiger, partially offset by $4.5 million in cash received for purchase price adjustments for 2005 acquisitions. Net cash used for acquisitions of businesses in 2005 was $1,194.3 million for the acquisitions of Astron, Asia Printers, Charlestown, Poligrafia, Spencer and CMCS. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company received $10.2 million in proceeds from the sale of various assets. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company received $43.4 million in proceeds from the sale of various assets. 39 Table of Contents 2005 compared to 2004 Net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $1,621.9 million versus net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations of $119.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2005, capital expenditures were $471.0 million versus $265.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was driven primarily by investments to update the Global Print Solutions manufacturing platform and support new businesses. The Company continues to fund capital expenditures primarily through cash provided by operations. Cash used in acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired, includes the acquisitions of Astron, Asia Printers, Charlestown, Poligrafia, Spencer and CMCS in 2005 compared to the net cash acquired in the 2004 all stock acquisition of Moore Wallace. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company received $43.4 million in proceeds from the sale of various assets. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company received $37.5 million on the sale of an investment in Latin America, $36.8 million on the sale of miscellaneous assets, and $5.3 million from an eminent domain settlement with the state of Georgia. Cash Flows From Financing Activities 2006 compared to 2005 Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $457.8 million compared to net cash provided by financing activities of continuing operations of $378.5 million in 2005. Debt reduction for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 included $246.7 million in payments of current maturities and long term debt and a net decrease in short term debt of $21.6 million. The Company received proceeds of approximately $1.0 billion from the issuance of long term debt in May 2005 in order to fund the acquisition of Astron in June 2005. During 2005, the Company purchased approximately 8.5 million shares of its common stock at a total cash cost of $270.4 million, of which 6.0 million of these shares were purchased from affiliates of GSC Partners in a privately negotiated transaction at a purchase price of approximately $200.0 million. The remaining stock purchases during that period were made in the open market or were shares withheld for employee tax liabilities upon vesting of equity awards. Stock repurchases for the year ended December 31, 2006 were $1.8 million. 2005 compared to 2004 Net cash provided by financing activities of continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $378.5 million compared to net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations of $191.8 million in 2004. The change primarily related to the issuance of $1.0 billion of debt related to the acquisition of Astron, offset by purchases of Company shares pursuant to the Companys share repurchase program and the increase in cash dividends paid in the current year on the incremental shares issued in conjunction with the Moore Wallace acquisition. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company purchased approximately 8.5 million shares of its common stock at a total cash cost of $270.4 million, of which 6.0 million of these shares were purchased from affiliates of GSC Partners in a privately negotiated transaction at a purchase price of approximately $200.0 million. At the time of the repurchase, two of the Companys then directors were affiliated with GSC. Both directors recused themselves from deliberations related to the repurchase. The remaining stock purchases during the year were made in the open market. Cash Flows From Discontinued Operations Net cash used in discontinued operations for 2006 was $0.2 million compared to net cash used in discontinued operations of $4.6 million in 2005, including the proceeds from the sale of Peak. Net cash used by discontinued operations for 2005 was $4.6 million including the proceeds from the sale of Peak compared to net cash provided by discontinued operations of $115.6 million in 2004, including the sale of the package logistics business. 40 Table of Contents Other Included in cash and cash equivalents of $211.4 million at December 31, 2006 were short term investments in the amount of $64.3 million, which primarily consist of certificate and short term deposits and money market funds. These investments are with institutions of sound credit rating and are highly liquid. Dividends Cash dividends paid to shareholders totaled $225.0 million, $223.4 million and $200.8 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company has consistently paid a dividend since becoming a public company in 1956 and currently has no plans to cease or reduce its dividend payments in 2007. The Company believes it will continue to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to pay future dividends that may be approved by the Companys board of directors. On January 11, 2007, the board of directors of the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.26 per common share, payable on March 1, 2007 to shareholders of record on January 26, 2007. Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commitments and Contingencies The following table quantifies our future contractual obligations: Payments Due In Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter (in millions) Total debt(1) $ 3,519.9 $ 147.3 $ 129.7 $ 521.2 $ 597.1 $ 84.6 $ 2,040.0 Operating leases 491.8 107.2 75.0 60.6 49.0 40.8 159.2 Other(2) 320.7 239.0 40.8 40.9 Total as of December 31, 2006 $ 4,332.4 $ 493.5 $ 245.5 $ 622.7 $ 646.1 $ 125.4 $ 2,199.2 Debt issued on January 8, 2007(3) $ 1,809.8 $ 37.9 $ 73.4 $ 73.4 $ 73.4 $ 73.4 $ 1,478.1 (1) Total debt as of December 31, 2006 includes scheduled interest payments. (2) Other represents contractual obligations for outsourced services ($120.4 million) and the purchase of property, plant and equipment ($174.1million) and restructuring related severance payments ($26.2 million). (3) Principal and interest related to the Companys January 8, 2007 issuance of $625.0 million of 5.625% notes due January 15, 2012 and $625.0 million of 6.125% notes due January 15, 2017. The Company expects to pay $161.8 million in interest in 2007. In addition, the Company expects to make cash contributions of approximately $16.8 million to its pension plans and approximately $16.7 million to its postretirement benefit plans in 2007, which are not reflected above. On February 22, 2006, the Companys board of directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to 10 million shares of the Companys common stock. CAPITAL RESOURCES As of December 31, 2006, the Company had a $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, under which there were no borrowings. On January 8, 2007, the Company entered into an agreement for a new $2.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the Facility) that can be used for general corporate purposes, including letters of credit and as a backstop for the Companys commercial paper program. The Facility is subject to a number of restrictive and financial covenants that, in part, limit the ability of the Company to create liens on assets, engage in mergers and consolidations, or dispose of assets. The financial covenants require a minimum 41 Table of Contents interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. The Company pays an annual commitment fee of 0.08% on the total unused portion of the Facility. On January 17, 2007, the Company entered into an agreement to increase the Companys commercial paper program to $2.0 billion. The Company also has $208.3 million in credit facilities outside of the U.S., most of which are uncommitted. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had $50.5 million in outstanding letters of credit, of which $23.4 million reduced availability under the Companys credit facilities. At December 31, 2006, approximately $1.2 billion was available under the Companys credit facilities. As of December 31, 2006, there were no borrowings under the Companys $1.0 billion commercial paper program. On April 27, 2006, the Company acquired OfficeTiger for $248.8 million in cash. The Company financed this acquisition with existing cash on hand and through issuances of commercial paper that were subsequently paid off with cash generated from operations. In November 2006, $225 million of the Companys debt matured. The Company funded this maturity through cash from operations and issuances of commercial paper. On January 9, 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of Banta Corporation for approximately $1.3 billion in cash, or $36.50 per share after the special dividend of $16.00 per share previously declared by Banta. On January 24, 2007, the Company acquired Perry Judds Holdings Incorporated, a privately owned printer of magazines and catalogs, for a purchase price of approximately $176 million. The Company primarily financed these acquisitions through the public issuance of $625.0 million of 5.625% notes due January 15, 2012 and $625.0 million of 6.125% notes due January 15, 2017. On January 3, 2007, the Company signed a definitive agreement to acquire Von Hoffmann, a leading U.S. based printer of books and other products that serve primarily the education, trade and business to business catalog sectors, from Visant Corporation for a purchase price of approximately $412 million. The Company expects to finance this acquisition through the issuance of commercial paper and existing cash on hand. The Company was in compliance with its debt covenants as of December 31, 2006. On January 3, 2007, the Company filed a new shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the rules permitting well known seasoned issuers, or WKSIs, to register an unlimited amount of securities to be issued from time to time in the future. Pursuant to the rules governing WKSI registration statements, the Companys WKSI registration statement automatically became effective and available for use upon filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company completed its first offering from its WKSI registration statement on January 9, 2007 when the Company issued the $625.0 million of 5.625% notes due January 15, 2012 and $625.0 million of 6.125% notes due January 15, 2017 referred to above. Under this WKSI registration statement, provided the Company has necessary corporate approvals to do so, the Company may issue an unlimited amount of securities for any purpose designated by the Company, including acquisitions and refinancing existing obligations. Risk Management The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. As of December 31, 2006, substantially all of the Companys outstanding term debt was comprised of fixed rate debt. The Companys acquisitions of Banta and Perry Judds were financed through the issuance of fixed rate debt and commercial paper in the first quarter of 2007. As a result of these transactions, the Companys variable rate debt is expected to increase, however, the Companys exposure to interest rate risk is expected to be minimal due to the majority of its debt being fixed rate. The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they 42 Table of Contents operate. To the extent borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2006, the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts was approximately $153.6 million. Unrealized gains and losses from these foreign currency contracts were not significant at December 31, 2006. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The Company has outstanding cross currency swaps with an aggregate notional value of $948.8 million (British pound sterling (GBP) 520.0 million), which exchange GBP for U.S. dollars. These swaps require the Company to pay a fixed interest rate on the GBP notional amount and receive a fixed interest rate on the U.S. dollar notional amount. These swaps expire in 2010 ($455.0 million notional amount) and 2015 ($493.8 million notional amount). The Company has designated $675.8 million of the swaps as a cash flow hedge of the variability of the forecasted cash receipts from GBP denominated intercompany loans and $273.0 million of the swaps as a hedge of a net investment of GBP denominated foreign operations. At December 31, 2006, the fair market value of these cross currency swaps of $81.8 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities. OTHER INFORMATION Environmental, Health and Safety For a discussion of certain environmental, health and safety issues involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements. Litigation and Contingent Liabilities For a discussion of certain litigation involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements. New Accounting Pronouncements and Pending Accounting Standards During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company adopted various accounting standards as described in Note 21, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the consolidated financial statements. Pending standards and their estimated effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements are described in Note 21, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the consolidated financial statements. The effect of adopting Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132R, has been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. As of December 31, 2006, substantially all of the Companys outstanding term debt was comprised of fixed rate debt. The Companys acquisitions of Banta and Perry Judds were financed through the issuance of fixed rate debt and commercial paper in the first quarter of 2007. As a result of these transactions, the Companys variable rate debt is expected to increase, however, the Companys exposure to interest rate risk is expected to be minimal due to the majority of its debt being fixed rate. The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they 43 Table of Contents operate. To the extent revenues, expenses and other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit, the Company selectively enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005 the notional amount of the Companys outstanding forward contracts was $153.6 million and $6.9 million, respectively. The Company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change in interest and foreign currency rates. Using this sensitivity analysis, such changes would not have a material effect on interest income/expense, foreign currency gains and losses, and cash flows; and would change the fair values of fixed rate debt at December 31, 2006 and 2005 by approximately $84.9 million and $91.0 million, respectively. Credit Risk The Company is exposed to credit risk on accounts receivable balances. This risk is limited due to the Companys large, diverse customer base, dispersed over various geographic regions and industrial sectors. No single customer comprised more than 10% of the Companys consolidated net sales in 2006, 2005 or 2004. The Company maintains provisions for potential credit losses and any such losses to date have been within the Companys expectations. Commodities The primary raw materials used by the Company are paper and ink. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company has incorporated price adjustment clauses in certain sales contracts. Management believes a hypothetical 10% change in the price of paper and other raw materials would not have a significant effect on the Companys consolidated annual results of operations or cash flows because these costs are generally passed through to its customers. 
 
