ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of RR Donnelleys financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements included in Item 15 of Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Business R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company (RR Donnelley, the Company, we, us, and our) is the worlds premier full service provider of print and related services, including business process outsourcing. Founded more than 140 years ago, the Company provides products and solutions in commercial printing, direct mail, financial printing, print fulfillment, labels, forms, logistics, call centers, transactional print and mail, print management, online services, digital photography, color services, and content and database management to customers in the publishing, healthcare, advertising, retail, technology, financial services and many other industries. Variable printing products include direct mailings and statement printing. Digital solutions services include online services, digital photography, color services, content management, and database management. The largest companies in the world and others rely on RR Donnelleys scale, scope and insight through a comprehensive range of online tools, variable printing services and market specific solutions. The Company operates primarily in the commercial print portion of the printing industry, with related product and service offerings designed to offer customers complete solutions for communicating their messages to target audiences. During the second quarter of 2007, the Company unified its printing and related services offering under the single RR Donnelley brand. During the third quarter of 2007, management changed the Companys reportable segments to reflect changes in the management reporting structure of the organization and the manner in which the chief operating decision maker regularly assesses information for decision making purposes, including the allocation of resources. The revised reporting structure includes two segments: U.S. Print and Related Services and International. The U.S. Print and Related Services segment includes the Companys U.S. printing operations, managed as one integrated platform, along with related logistics, premedia and print management services. This segments products and related service offerings include magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, financial printing, direct mail, forms, labels, office products, premedia and logistics services. The International segment includes the Companys non U.S. printing operations in Asia, Europe, Latin America and Canada. Additionally, this segment includes the Companys business process outsourcing and Global Turnkey Solutions operations. Business process outsourcing provides transactional printing and outsourcing services, statement printing, direct mail and print management services through its operations in Europe, Asia and North America. Global Turnkey Solutions provides outsourcing capabilities including product configuration, customized kitting and order fulfillment for technology and medical device companies around the world through its operations in Europe and North America. 18 Table of Contents Executive Overview 2007 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The changes in the Companys income from continuing operations, operating margin, net earnings (loss) and net earnings (loss) per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2007, from the year ended December 31, 2006, were primarily due to the following: Incomefromcontinuingoperations(in millions) Operatingmargin Netearnings(loss)(in millions) Netearnings(loss)perdiluted share For the year ended December 31, 2006 $ 750.7 8.1 % $ 400.6 $ 1.83 2007 restructuring and impairment charges (839.0 ) (7.2 %) (702.9 ) (3.22 ) 2006 restructuring and impairment charges 206.1 2.2 % 172.9 0.79 Non recurring tax benefits (14.2 ) (0.07 ) Discontinued operations 1.5 0.01 Operations 197.3 (0.4 %) 93.2 0.44 For the year ended December 31, 2007 $ 315.1 2.7 % $ (48.9 ) $ (0.22 ) 2007 restructuring and impairment charges: included a non cash pre tax charge of $316.1 million reflecting the write off of the Moore Wallace, OfficeTiger and other trade names; $436.1 million non cash charge for impairment of goodwill related to the business process outsourcing reporting unit; pretax charges of $49.3 million for employee termination costs, substantially all of which were associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities; $11.1 million of other restructuring costs, including lease termination costs; and $26.4 million for impairment of other long lived assets. 2006 restructuring and impairment charges: included a $110.0 million non cash charge for impairment of goodwill related to the business process outsourcing reporting unit, pre tax charges of $54.1 million for employee termination costs, substantially all of which were associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities; $11.1 million of other restructuring costs, primarily lease termination costs; and $30.9 million of impairment charges of which $26.3 million reflects the write down of the Astron trade name intangible asset. Non recurring tax benefits: reflected a benefit of $9.3 million in 2007 from a reduction in net deferred tax liabilities due to a decrease in the statutory tax rate in the United Kingdom and a $23.5 million benefit in 2006 from the realization of a U.S. deferred tax asset. Discontinued operations: reflected certain costs related to a facility previously occupied by the Companys package logistics business, including costs resulting from a sub lessee bankruptcy in 2006. Operations: reflected higher operating income in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, primarily driven by the Banta, Perry Judds and Von Hoffmann acquisitions and improved results in financial print and book sales, higher volume and productivity, and improved operating income in the International segment which was primarily driven by book production in Asia, partially offset by higher interest expense. See further details in the review of operating results by segment that follows below. Successes During 2007, the Company unified most of its printing and related services offerings under the single RR Donnelley brand. The renaming reflects the Companys ability to provide fully integrated single source solutions that span a complete range of printing and service capabilities while allowing its customers the ability to access RR Donnelleys global resources. In addition, the Company successfully integrated its acquisitions of Banta, Perry Judds and Von Hoffmann under this global platform. The unified platform and integration of its acquisitions have expanded the Companys flexibility to serve customer needs and achieve productivity and scale across most of its operations. 19 Table of Contents Sales increases were achieved in both segments despite the continuing impact of competitive price pressure. In the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, the sales increases were driven by acquisitions and increased sales of financial print, books, and logistics services. Increased sales of financial print were driven by capital markets transactions and global investment company compliance. Net sales of financial print increased in 2007 despite the global credit market turmoil. The Companys global diversified financial print product mix helped mitigate the impact of the capital markets uncertainty during the second half of 2007. Book sales increased reflecting higher volume in educational books. Sales of print logistics services increased reflecting volume growth in domestic print sales. Internationally, net sales improved due to gains in book production in China mainly for the U.S. and European markets, as well as continued growth with telecommunications and technology customers and due to increased sales of forms, labels, commercial print and statement printing due to volume growth from existing customers. The Company also continued to achieve productivity benefits resulting from restructuring actions, investments in equipment and technology, and procurement savings. These productivity savings continued to largely offset the impacts of price competition and cost inflation. During 2007, the Company was able to achieve significant cost savings through the integration of the Banta, Perry Judds and Von Hoffmann acquisitions. By the fourth quarter, most cost reductions resulting from this integration were executed, and these savings are expected to benefit margins in 2008. Net cash flow from operating activities of continuing operations was $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007, an increase of 30.2% over 2006 due to the Companys growth and productivity and a focus on working capital management. Cash flows from operations enabled the Company to invest $482.0 million in capital purchases, and repurchase 2.9 million shares during the year, net of shares issued to satisfy employee stock option exercises. Challenges Sales from the business process outsourcing operations for 2007 exceeded such sales for 2006; however, operating margins for these operations declined in 2007 as compared to 2006. The lower operating margins were primarily the result of costs associated with the start up of a large customer contract. Additionally, within our Global Document Solutions group, the loss of volume and lower prices on significant customers transactional print and mail products resulted in the lower operating margins. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recorded a non cash charge for impairment of goodwill of $436.1 million to reflect a reduction in the fair value of these operations based on lower expectations for growth and profitability. The Company expects to face continued challenges in these operations, including increased price pressure and competition for high volume contracts. Net sales of statement printing included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment declined in 2007 as compared to 2006. The decline was mainly caused by customer losses and volume declines. Net sales of statement printing declined at a slower rate in the third and fourth quarters as compared to the first and second quarters in 2007. Management sought to offset the impact of these sales declines through refocused sales efforts and cost control initiatives. Net sales of directories, included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, declined in 2007 as compared to 2006. This decline is due to price reductions on contract renewals, timing of new contracts and the wind down of lost business. Management sought to offset the impact of these sales declines through cost control initiatives. Net sales of direct mail, included in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, declined in 2007 as compared to 2006. The decline was attributed to lower volumes primarily in the financial and retail markets due to turmoil in the credit card market and the U.S. postal rate increase that became effective in the second quarter of 2007. The declines were partially offset by increased volumes in non profit sales. 20 Table of Contents On May 14, 2007, new postage rates went into effect for all mail classes in the United States under Postal Rate Case 2006 1, with the exception of the periodicals class, which went into effect on July 15, 2007. The new rates substantially increased the cost of standard mail, which is a significant component of many of our customers cost structures. During the year ended December 31, 2007, this cost increase impacted volume and formats within our direct mail and statement printing sales in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. The impact of the postal increases on volume was less significant in magazine, retail, catalog and logistics services in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment; however, postal rate changes did drive increased demand for commingling services within these operations. The Company has invested in equipment and technology to meet this demand and has developed innovative products and services to minimize customers postal costs. OUTLOOK Vision and Strategy RR Donnelleys vision is to improve on our existing position as the worlds premier printing and print related services company by providing our customers with the highest quality products and services. The Companys strategy is focused on maximizing long term shareholder value by driving profitable growth, continuing our focus on productivity, and acquiring and integrating complementary businesses. To increase shareholder value, the Company pursues three major strategic objectives. These objectives are summarized below, along with more specific areas of focus. Strategic Objective Focus Areas 2008 Priorities Profitable growth Targeted capital investments Integration of sales force Focus on core print operations Capture segment share Optimize platform utilization Leverage existing relationships Increase sales to existing customers Productivity Disciplined cost management Productivity focused investment plans Streamline and standardize processes Leverage scale to optimize procurement Streamline sales and operations Leverage global capabilities Targeted mergers and acquisitions Deepen customer relationships Utilize strong financial position and drive economies of scale Disciplined due diligence and financial analysis Integrate recent acquisitions Capture synergies Meet changing customer demands To generate profitable growth, the Company will continue to make targeted capital investments to support new business and leverage its global platform. The Company is also working to more fully integrate its sales efforts to broaden customer relationships and meet our customers demands. The Company will continue to seek to provide for a larger portion of our customers print and related needs in order to capture segment share. In 2007 and prior years the Company made significant investments directed at improving the competitiveness of the Companys manufacturing platform. In addition to supporting growth, this investment has enhanced the platform through new technology that better meets customer needs and improves operating efficiency. The Companys global platform provides differentiated solutions for its customers through its broad range of complementary print related services, strong logistics capabilities, and technology leadership. Management believes productivity improvement and cost reduction are critical to the Companys competitiveness while enhancing the value the Company delivers to its customers. The Company has implemented strategic initiatives to reduce its overall cost structure and improve operating efficiency including the restructuring, reorganization and integration of operations, and streamlining of administrative and support activities. 21 Table of Contents Targeted acquisitions are another important component of the Companys strategy to extend its capabilities and its industry leadership. The Company acquired Banta, Perry Judds, Von Hoffmann and Cardinal Brands in 2007 to offer customers greater capacity and flexibility, and further secure the Companys position as a leader in the industry. The Company continues to successfully integrate these acquisitions, which should drive cost savings and reduce future capital spending needs. The Company uses several key indicators to gauge progress towards achieving these objectives. These indicators include net sales growth, operating margins, cash flow from operations and capital expenditures. The Company targets long term net sales growth at or above industry levels, while achieving modest growth in operating margins. Combined with working capital management, this growth is expected to drive increases in cash flow from operations. Industry Environment The Company faces many challenges and risks as a result of competing in highly competitive global markets. Item 1A, Risk Factors, discusses many of these issues, but the Companys strategy is primarily focused on meeting the challenges of industry wide price competition and the advancement of technology. Overcapacity and pricing environment The print and related services industry in general continues to have excess capacity and remains highly competitive. Across the Companys operations, many competitors rely on price as a key competitive lever. Management expects that prices for the Companys products and services will therefore continue to be a focal point for customers in coming years. In this environment, the Company believes it needs to continue to lower its cost structure and focus on differentiating itself in its core print and related services. While the industry environment has been difficult for a number of years, the Company has demonstrated its ability to maintain and enhance margins through productivity and by offering higher value products and services. Technology Technological changes, such as the electronic distribution of documents and data, online distribution and hosting of media content, advances in digital printing, print on demand, and internet technologies continue to impact the market for the Companys products and services. As a substitute for print, the impact of these technologies has been felt mainly in forms and statement printing, as electronic communication and transaction technology has eliminated or devalued the role of many traditional paper forms. The future impact of technology on the Companys business is difficult to predict and could result in additional expenditures to restructure impacted operations or develop new technologies. While new technologies present significant challenges to certain of the Companys traditional products, management believes that the Company is a leader in key technologies that, as customers continue to shift towards customized and higher valued added print, will be valuable sources of industry growth. These technologies include digital content management and premedia services, digital print for personalization and print on demand, and low cost document process management. In addition, the ability to offer compliance assurance and secure environments for print is increasingly important to customers. While the majority of the Companys capital expenditures fund acquisitions of traditional printing machinery, the Company continues to focus a higher proportion of its investments in digital technologies in order to capitalize on these opportunities. Fiscal Year 2008 Outlook In fiscal 2008, the Company expects net sales to increase over fiscal 2007. The highly competitive market conditions continue to put pressure on prices; however, we expect to more than offset these price pressures 22 Table of Contents through increased volume and incremental sales from the 2007 acquisitions. We anticipate further consolidation of printers, customers and suppliers during 2008, which may result in continued price pressures and increased raw material costs. We will continue to leverage the One RR Donnelley platform and powerful customer relationships in order to provide a larger share of our customers print and related needs. Rising paper, ink, and energy costs are expected for 2008 and may impact our margins. However, we expect to offset this impact by realizing cost savings from further integration of our recent acquisitions and continuing to drive improved manufacturing productivity. The Company also expects to maintain most corporate overhead costs at current levels, while increasing its investment in information technology projects that facilitate integration or improve productivity. U.S. Print and Related Services Sales in U.S. Print and Related Services are expected to increase moderately in 2008 driven primarily by the incremental sales resulting from the Von Hoffmann and Cardinal Brands acquisitions. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, net sales are expected to increase across most product and service offerings, with the most significant increases in forms and labels, commercial print, financial print and logistics services. Forms and labels sales are expected to increase due to volume growth from new and existing customers, despite the impact of continued price pressure. We plan to grow commercial print volume by leveraging relationships with existing customers. Sales of financial print services are expected to continue to improve in 2008 following a record year in 2007, but are dependent on continued strength in capital markets transactions. Further worsening of the tight credit environment or continued economic uncertainty could result in a lower number of such transactions and a decline in financial print sales. Net sales of logistics services are expected to increase, driven by the high growth in mail center and commingling services increases due to an additional postal rate change effective in the second quarter of 2008. This postal increase, however, may dampen demand for direct mail, statement, catalog and magazine printing. Book sales are expected to increase due to the full year impact of the acquisition of Von Hoffmann and higher volume in educational books. Net sales of directories are expected to decline further in 2008 as volume growth from new contracts is more than offset by price reductions. Despite the continuing impacts of competitive price pressure and higher materials and energy prices, the Company expects U.S. Print and Related Services operating income to increase from 2007, at a rate higher than the increase in net sales. The expected increase in operating margin should result from cost savings achieved through the Companys productivity initiatives and integration of the 2007 acquisitions. In addition, the Company expects continued benefits from its efforts to optimize the utilization of the Companys global platform and minimize distribution costs. International The net sales growth rate in the International segment is expected to moderate from the rate achieved in 2007. The slowing growth rate primarily reflects a reduction for the 2007 growth attributable to the Companys acquisitions, as well as the impact of favorable foreign exchange rates in 2007. The Company expects continued growth in Asia from book production for international markets and demand for telecommunications and technology manuals. Commercial print volume in Europe is expected to grow and overcome pricing pressure on technology manuals and directories. Increases in medical device production are expected to drive growth in Global Turnkey Solutions. Forms, labels, and variable print are expected to drive continued volume growth in both Latin America and Canada during 2008. Growth in business process outsourcing is expected to decelerate due to slowing volume and continued price pressure, particularly in statement printing. The Company expects the International operating income to increase at a rate slightly more than net sales in 2008, driven by increased volume and productivity efforts. The pricing pressures expected in the European market are expected to be offset by productivity initiatives and restructuring actions to lower the cost structure of operations in Asia, business process outsourcing and Global Turnkey Solutions. 23 Table of Contents Other The effective tax rate in 2008 is expected to be more reflective of the applicable statutory rates compared to the 2007 rate that was impacted by the non deductible, non cash $436.1 million goodwill impairment charge and $9.3 million tax benefit resulting from the decrease in the statutory tax rate in the United Kingdom. Weighted average shares outstanding are expected to decline due to the full year impact of the 2007 share repurchases, which will be partially offset by shares issued to satisfy employee stock option exercises. Capital expenditures are expected to decrease as the Companys investments in acquisitions and capital expenditures in 2007 and prior years have satisfied the capacity requirements and allowed for reduced capital expenditures in future years. Interest paid in 2008 is expected to increase due to the full year impact of interest due on the $1.25 billion notes issued in January 2007 to pay a portion of the purchase price of Banta and Perry Judds. Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has defined a companys most critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of its financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, the Company has identified the following critical accounting policies and judgments. Although management believes that its estimates and assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon information available when they are made. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue for the majority of its products upon the transfer of title and risk of loss, which is generally upon shipment to the customer. Contracts and customer agreements generally specify F.O.B. shipping point terms. Under agreements with certain customers, custom products may be stored by the Company for future delivery. In these situations, the Company may receive a logistics or warehouse management fee for the services it provides. In certain of these cases, delivery and billing schedules are outlined in the customer agreement and product revenue is recognized when manufacturing is complete, title and risk of loss transfer to the customer, and there is a reasonable assurance as to collectibility. Because the majority of products are customized, product returns are not significant; however, the Company accrues for the estimated amount of customer credits at the time of sale. Revenue from services is recognized as services are performed. Long term contract revenue is recognized based on the completed contract method or percentage of completion method. The percentage of completion method is used only for contracts that will take longer than three months to complete, where project stages are clearly defined and can be invoiced and where the contract contains enforceable rights by both parties. Revenue related to short term service contracts and contracts that do not meet the percentage of completion criteria is recognized when the contract is completed. Within the Companys financial print operations, which serve the global financial services end market, the Company produces highly customized materials such as regulatory S filings, initial public offerings and EDGAR related services. Revenue is recognized for these services following final delivery of the printed product or upon completion of the service performed. Revenues related to the Companys premedia operations, which include digital content management, photography, color services and page production, are recognized in accordance with the terms of the contract, 24 Table of Contents typically upon completion of the performed service and acceptance by the customer. With respect to the Companys logistics operations, whose operations include the delivery of printed material, the Company recognizes revenue upon completion of the delivery of services. Certain revenues earned by the Company require judgment to determine if revenue should be recorded gross as a principal or net of related costs as an agent, in accordance with EITF 99 19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent, and the related guidance in EITF 00 10, Accounting for Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs and EITF 01 14, Income Statement Characterization of Reimbursements Received for Out of Pocket Expenses Incurred. Billings for third party shipping and handling costs, primarily in the Companys logistics operations, and out of pocket expenses are recorded gross. In the Companys Global Turnkey Solutions operations, each contract is evaluated using various criteria to determine if revenue for components and other materials should be recognized on a gross or net basis. In general, these revenues are recognized on a gross basis if the Company has control over selecting vendors and pricing, is the primary obligor in the arrangement, bears all credit risk, and bears the risk of loss for inventory in its possession. Revenue from contracts that do not meet these criteria is recognized on a net basis. Many of the Companys operations process materials, primarily paper, that may be supplied directly by customers or may be purchased by the Company and sold to customers. No revenue is recognized for customer supplied paper, but revenues for Company supplied paper are recognized on a gross basis. As a result, the Companys reported sales and margins may be impacted by the mix of customer supplied paper or Company supplied paper. The Company records deferred revenue in situations where amounts are invoiced but the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are not met. Such revenue is recognized when all criteria are subsequently met. Accounts Receivable The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is reviewed for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments for products and services. Specific customer provisions are made when a review of significant outstanding amounts, utilizing information about customer creditworthiness and current economic trends, indicates that collection is doubtful. In addition, provisions are made at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable and the Companys historical collection experience. The Companys estimates of the recoverability of amounts due could change, and additional changes to the allowance could be necessary in the future if a major customers creditworthiness deteriorates, or if actual defaults are higher than the Companys historical experience. Inventories The Company records inventories at the lower of cost or market values. Most of the Companys inventories are valued under the last in first out (LIFO) basis. Changes in inflation indices may cause an increase or decrease in the value of inventories accounted for under the LIFO costing method. The Company maintains inventory allowances for excess and obsolete inventories determined in part by future demand forecasts. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for its products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and customer requirements, the Company could be required to increase its inventory allowances. Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets The Companys methodology for allocating the purchase price of acquisitions is based on established valuation techniques that reflect the consideration of a number of factors including valuations performed by third party appraisers. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the fair value assigned to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Based on its organization structure, the Company has identified fifteen reporting units for which cash flows are determinable and to which goodwill is allocated. 25 Table of Contents Goodwill is either assigned to a specific reporting unit or allocated between reporting units based on the relative excess fair value of each reporting unit. When the Companys organization structure changes, new or revised reporting units may be identified, and goodwill is reallocated, if necessary, based on relative excess fair value. The Company performs goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis as of October 31, or more frequently in certain circumstances. The Company compares the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair value, the Company performs a fair value measurement calculation to determine the impairment loss, which is charged to operations. In 2007, the Company recorded a non cash charge of $436.1 million to reflect impairment of goodwill in the business process outsourcing reporting unit. As part of its annual impairment analysis for this reporting unit, the Company engaged a third party appraisal firm to assist the Company in its determination of the fair value of the unit, in part based on estimates of future net sales, operating margin and cash flows developed by management. In order to determine the amount of goodwill impairment, the Company also used the third party appraisal firm to assist the Company in its determination of the value of significant intangible long lived assets of the reporting unit. The Company evaluates the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and certain identifiable intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company performs impairment tests of indefinite lived intangible assets on an annual basis or more frequently in certain circumstances. Factors considered important which could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the assets or the strategy for the overall business, a significant decrease in the market value of the assets or significant negative industry or economic trends. When the Company determines that the carrying amount of long lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the indicators, the assets are assessed for impairment based on the estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recorded for the excess of the assets carrying amount over its fair value. The Company recorded an impairment charge of $316.1 million in 2007 related to the write off of the Moore Wallace, OfficeTiger, and other trade names associated with the decision to unify most of its printing and related service offerings under the single RR Donnelley brand. All of the Companys goodwill and long lived asset impairment assessments are based on established fair value techniques, including discounted cash flow analysis. These analyses require management to estimate both future cash flows and an appropriate discount rate to reflect the risk inherent in the current business model. The assumptions supporting valuation models, including discount rates, are determined using the best estimates as of the date of the impairment review. These estimates are subject to significant uncertainty, and differences in actual future results may require further impairment charges, which may be significant. Certain investments in affordable housing, which are included in other noncurrent assets, are recorded at cost, as adjusted for the Companys share of any declines in the fair value of the underlying properties that are deemed to be other than temporary. The Companys basis for determining fair value of the underlying properties requires applying managements judgment using a significant number of estimates. Management derives its estimates of fair value using remaining future tax credits and tax deductions to be realized and expected residual values upon sale or disposition of the Companys ownership interests. Because most of the tax credits from these investments were received in prior periods, the current values of these investments are primarily attributable to residual values, which are inherently more uncertain. Expected residual values are developed from industry assumptions and cash flow projections provided by the underlying partnerships and include certain assumptions with respect to operating costs, debt levels and certain market data related to the properties such as assumed vacancy rates. Should these assumptions differ from actual results in the future, the Company might be required to further write down its carrying value of these investments. In 2007, the Company did not record a write down of its investments in affordable housing. 26 Table of Contents Commitments and Contingencies The Company is subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to environmental, employment and other matters, as well as preference claims related to amounts received from customers prior to their seeking bankruptcy protection. Periodically, the Company reviews the status of each significant matter and assesses potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, the Company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the Company reassesses the potential liability related to pending claims and might revise its estimates. The Company purchases third party insurance for workers compensation, automobile and general liability claims that exceed a certain level. The Company is responsible for the payment of claims below these insured limits, and consulting actuaries are utilized to estimate the obligation associated with incurred losses, which is recorded in accrued liabilities. Historical loss development factors for both the Company and the industry are utilized to project the future development of incurred losses, and these amounts are adjusted based upon actual claims experience and settlement. If actual experience of claims development is significantly different from these estimates, an adjustment in future periods may be required. Restructuring The Company records restructuring charges when liabilities are incurred as part of a plan approved by management, with the appropriate level of authority, for the elimination of duplicative functions, the closure of facilities, or the exit of a line of business, generally in order to reduce the Companys overall cost structure. Certain restructuring costs are recognized as a cost of acquisitions because the plans were contemplated at the time of the acquisition and were, therefore, included in the purchase price allocation. These restructuring charges and related liabilities are based on contractual obligations or managements best estimates at the time the charges are recorded. The restructuring liabilities might change in future periods based on several factors that could differ from original estimates and assumptions. These include, but are not limited to: contract settlements on terms different than originally expected; ability to sublease properties based on market conditions at rates or on timelines different than originally estimated; or changes to original plans as a result of mergers or acquisitions. Such changes might result in reversals of or additions to restructuring charges that could affect amounts reported in the consolidated statements of operations of future periods. Accounting for Income Taxes Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Additionally, the Companys tax returns are subject to audit by various U.S. and foreign tax authorities. On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, which clarifies the accounting for and disclosure of uncertain tax positions. The Company recognizes a tax position in its financial statements when it is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that the position would be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. This recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. As of December 31, 2007 and January 1, 2007, uncertain tax positions of $212.2 million and $224.9 million, respectively, were recorded. Although management believes that its estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of uncertain tax positions may be materially different from that which is reflected in the Companys historical financial statements. The Company has recorded deferred tax assets related to domestic and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards. The utilization of these tax assets is limited by the amount of taxable income expected to be generated within the allowable carryforward period, and other factors. Accordingly, management has provided a 27 Table of Contents valuation allowance to reduce certain of these deferred tax assets when management has concluded that, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. If actual results differ from these estimates, or the estimates are adjusted in future periods, adjustments to the valuation allowance might need to be recorded. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, valuation allowances of $260.0 million and $211.5 million, respectively, were recorded. Share Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Shared Based Payment, (SFAS No. 123(R)) using the modified prospective application transition method, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense, based on estimated fair values, for all share based awards made to employees and directors, including stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance share units. The Company recognizes compensation expense for share based awards expected to vest on a straight line basis over the requisite service period of the award based on their grant date fair value. The consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, reflect the impact of SFAS No. 123(R). In accordance with the modified prospective application transition method, the Companys consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS No. 123(R). Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans The Company records annual amounts relating to its pension and postretirement benefit plans based on calculations which include various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, assumed rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. The Company reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate to do so. The effects of modifications are recognized immediately on the balance sheet, but are generally amortized into operating earnings over future periods, with the deferred amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company believes that the assumptions utilized in recording its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on its experience, market conditions and input from its actuaries and investment advisors. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) (SFAS 158), the Company early adopted the provisions requiring a fiscal year end measurement date during the first quarter of 2007. Because the Companys previous measurement date was September 30, 2006, this change required the Company to perform a new valuation of the pension and postretirement obligation and assets at December 31, 2006. As part of this valuation, the Company updated its assumed discount rates. The weighted average discount rates used to calculate net periodic benefit expense for pension and postretirement benefits were 5.7% and 5.8%, respectively at December 31, 2006 and 5.8% for both pension and postretirement benefits at September 30, 2006. All other assumptions used to calculate net periodic benefit expense remain unchanged from the September 30, 2006 measurement date. The net effect of adopting the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158 at January 1, 2007 of $3.4 million has been included as an adjustment to beginning retained earnings in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The Company determines its assumption for the discount rate to be used for purposes of computing annual service and interest costs based on an index of high quality corporate bond yields and matched funding yield curve analysis as of that date. The Company employs a total return investment approach for its pension and postretirement benefit plans whereby a mix of equities and fixed income investments are used to maximize the long term return of pension and postretirement plan assets. The intent of this strategy is to minimize plan contributions by outperforming the growth in plan liabilities over the long run. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status, and corporate financial condition. The investment portfolios contain a diversified blend of equity and fixed income investments. Furthermore, equity investments are diversified across geography and market capitalization through investments in U.S. large capitalization stocks, U.S. small capitalization stocks and international securities. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through annual liability measurements, periodic asset/liability studies and quarterly investment portfolio reviews. 28 Table of Contents The expected long term rate of return for plan assets is based upon many factors including expected asset allocations, historical asset returns, current and expected future market conditions, risk and active management premiums. The prospective target asset allocation percentage for both the pension and postretirement benefit plans is approximately 75% for equity securities and approximately 25% for fixed income and other securities. The expected return on plan assets assumption at December 31, 2007 ranged from 8.0% to 8.5% for the Companys major U.S. and Canadian pension plans and was 8.0% for the Companys partially funded U.S. postretirement medical benefit plans. The discount rates used at December 31, 2007 to measure pension and postretirement benefit obligations of the major U.S. and Canadian plans ranged from 5.2% to 6.6%. A one percentage point decrease in the discount rates at December 31, 2007 would increase the pension plans accumulated benefit obligation and projected benefit obligation by approximately $387.3 million and $406.3 million, respectively. The Company also maintains several pension plans in international locations. The assets, liabilities and expense associated with these plans are not material to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The expected returns on plan assets and discount rates for these plans are determined based on each plans investment approach, local interest rates, and plan participant profiles. The health care cost trend rates used in valuing the Companys postretirement benefit obligations are established based upon actual health care cost trends and consultation with actuaries and benefit providers. At December 31, 2007, the current weighted average health care trend rate assumption was 8.9% for pre age 65 participants and 9.4% for post age 65 participants. The current trend rate gradually decreases to an ultimate trend rate of 6.0%. A one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): Postretirement benefit obligation $ 8.1 Total postretirement benefit service and interest cost components 0.6 A one percentage point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): Postretirement benefit obligation $ (7.1 ) Total postretirement benefit service and interest cost components net (0.6 ) Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than non cancelable operating lease commitments, the Company does not have off balance sheet arrangements, financings, or special purpose entities. Financial Review In the financial review that follows, the Company discusses its consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and certain other information. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and related notes that begin on page F 1. 29 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006 The following table shows the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, which reflects the results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates. Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 $ Change % Change (in millions) Net sales $ 11,587.1 $ 9,316.6 $ 2,270.5 24.4 % Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 8,532.4 6,798.9 1,733.5 25.5 % Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 1,302.3 1,097.6 204.7 18.6 % Restructuring and impairment charges 839.0 206.1 632.9 307.1 % Depreciation and amortization 598.3 463.3 135.0 29.1 % Total operating expenses 11,272.0 8,565.9 2,706.1 31.6 % Income from continuing operations $ 315.1 $ 750.7 $ (435.6 ) (58.0 %) Consolidated Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $2,270.5 million, or 24.4%, to $11,587.1 million versus the prior year. Of this increase, approximately $1.9 billion or 83.7% was due to sales from the acquired facilities of Banta, Perry Judds, OfficeTiger and Von Hoffmann and $146.3 million or 6.4% resulted from changes in foreign exchange rates. In addition, the increase in net sales was driven by volume growth in both segments, particularly in the International segment. In the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, volume increases in financial printing, logistics services, book production, and forms and labels were partially offset by lower prices for most products and services. In the International segment, net sales increases were driven by the 2007 acquisitions, increased book production in Asia, favorable exchange rates and volume growth from new customers in business process outsourcing, favorable exchange rates in Europe and increased book sales and commercial print sales in Latin America offset by lower prices on the sales of directories and manuals in Europe and Asia. Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) increased $1,733.5 million to $8,532.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 versus the prior year, primarily due to acquisitions, increased sales volume and increased incentive compensation. Cost of sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales increased from 73.0% to 73.6% as a result of continuing price competition across most of the operations in both segments and the impact of the acquired companies, which in the aggregate had lower gross margins than the Companys historical margins. These factors were partially offset by cost reductions resulting from restructuring activities, procurement savings, and other productivity efforts. Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) increased $204.7 million to $1,302.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 versus the prior year, primarily due to acquisitions and increased incentive compensation. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated net sales decreased from 11.8% to 11.2%. This decrease reflected scale advantages, including the elimination of duplicative administrative functions at the acquired businesses. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $839.0 million compared to $206.1 million in 2006. In 2007, these charges included a non cash pre tax charge of $316.1 million reflecting the write off of the Moore Wallace, OfficeTiger and other trade names intangible assets, most of which were indefinite lived, and $436.1 million for the impairment of goodwill associated with the business process outsourcing operations. In addition, these charges included $49.3 million for workforce 30 Table of Contents reductions of 1,169 employees (of whom 1,092 were terminated as of December 31, 2007) associated with the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities. These actions include management changes to simplify the management reporting structure and cost structure reductions including the closing of two manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and two facilities within the International segment. These charges also include $11.1 million of other restructuring costs including lease terminations in exited facilities and $26.4 million for the impairment of other long lived assets, of which $19.1 million relates to the write off of capitalized customer contract set up costs in the business process outsourcing reporting unit. For the year ended December 31, 2006, these charges included $110.0 million for the impairment of goodwill for the business process outsourcing operations within the International segment and $30.9 million for impairment of assets, of which $26.3 million reflects the write down of the Astron trade name intangible asset. In addition, these charges included $54.1 million for workforce reductions of 1,396 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2007), associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities and $11.1 million of other restructuring costs primarily related to lease terminations in exited facilities. Management believes that certain restructuring activities will continue throughout 2008 and in future years as the Company continues to streamline its manufacturing, sales and administrative operations. Payments on certain lease obligations associated with various restructuring plans are scheduled to continue until 2017. The Company anticipates that payments associated with employee terminations relating to existing restructuring actions will be substantially complete by the end of 2008. Depreciation and amortization increased $135.0 million to $598.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to acquisitions. Depreciation and amortization included $119.7 million and $73.2 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, trade names and patents for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The write off of the tradenames in the second quarter decreased the 2007 amortization expense by $1.5 million and will reduce annual amortization expense by $2.6 million in 2008 and beyond. Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $315.1 million, a decrease of $435.6 million compared to $750.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The decrease was driven by a $316.1 million non cash pre tax charge reflecting the write off of the Moore Wallace, OfficeTiger and other trade names intangible assets, a $436.1 million non cash charge for the impairment of goodwill associated with the business process outsourcing operations, higher incentive compensation and higher depreciation and amortization expense, partially offset by the increase in net sales, productivity efforts and the benefits achieved from procurement savings and restructuring activities. Net interest expense increased by $88.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 versus 2006, primarily due to the issuance of approximately $1.25 billion of debt in January 2007 and increased short term borrowings to finance the acquisitions of Banta, Perry Judds, and Von Hoffmann. Net investment and other income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $3.6 million and $(10.4) million, respectively. Included in net investment and other income (expense) were charges of $0.2 million and $18.4 million (including an impairment charge of $16.9 million) for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, reflecting declines in the underlying estimated fair market values of the Companys affordable housing investments. In addition, the Company recorded a gain of $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and a loss of $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 for the portion of the changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments that were ineffective as a net investment hedge. The Company recorded a gain of $7.0 million on the sale of certain investment property for the year ended December 31, 2006. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007 was 149.3% compared to 32.6% in 2006. The increase primarily reflects the non deductible, non cash goodwill impairment charge of $436.1 million, tax benefits of $107.0 million associated with the $316.1 million non cash charge for the write off of the 31 Table of Contents Moore Wallace, OfficeTiger and other trade names, the enactment of a lower statutory tax rate in the United Kingdom, an increased benefit from the domestic manufacturing deduction and the impact of the increased proportion of the Companys taxable income derived from lower tax jurisdictions. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006 included a $23.5 million benefit from the realization of a U.S. deferred tax asset and the reversal of reserves for tax contingencies of $27.3 million. The net loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $48.4 million or $0.22 per diluted share compared to net earnings from continuing operations of $402.6 million or $1.84 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2006. In addition to the factors described above, the per share results reflect a decrease in weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 0.9 million shares as the Companys net loss for the year caused all outstanding options and unvested share awards to be anti dilutive. The increase in weighted average basic shares outstanding reflected the impact of employee stock option exercises and shares earned under share based compensation plans, offset by the Companys purchases in the open market of approximately 7.7 million shares at a total cost of $309.5 million. The net loss from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $0.5 million compared to $2.0 million for 2006, which primarily reflected costs resulting from a sub lessee bankruptcy related to a facility previously occupied by the Companys package logistics business. U.S. Print and Related Services The following tables summarize net sales, income from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 (in millions) Net sales $ 8,601.9 $ 7,141.6 Income from continuing operations 823.8 925.0 Operating Margin 9.6 % 13.0 % Restructuring and impairment charges 285.1 23.6 Reporting unit(1) 2007Net Sales 2006Net Sales $ Change % Change (in millions) Magazines catalogs and retail inserts $ 2,691.2 $ 2,110.1 $ 581.1 27.5 % Books and directories 1,677.7 1,291.6 386.1 29.9 % Variable print 1,203.7 955.4 248.3 26.0 % Forms and labels 961.6 907.2 54.4 6.0 % Commercial 792.9 721.3 71.6 9.9 % Logistics 549.3 511.7 37.6 7.3 % Financial print 560.1 514.5 45.6 8.9 % Digital Solutions 165.4 129.8 35.6 27.4 % Total U.S. Print and Related Services $ 8,601.9 $ 7,141.6 $ 1,460.3 20.4 % (1) The above table represents net sales by reporting unit. Based on capacity and utilization, at times other products may be produced within a reporting unit to meet customer needs and improve operating efficiency. Net sales for the U.S. Print and Related Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2007 were $8,601.9 million, an increase of $1,460.3 million, or 20.4%, compared to 2006. Of this increase, approximately $1.4 billion or 96% was due to sales from the acquired facilities of Banta, Perry Judds and Von Hoffmann. The remaining increase resulted from volume increases, partially offset by downward price pressures. Net sales of magazines, catalogs and retail inserts increased due to the acquisitions, partially offset by lower pricing on major 32 Table of Contents customer contracts. Net sales of books and directories increased reflecting the acquisitions and higher volume in consumer and educational books partially offset by continued pricing pressure and the impact of major directory contract renewals. Increases in variable print net sales reflect the acquisitions, partially offset by lower direct mail volume from key customers, the impact of postal rate increases and volume and price declines in statement printing. Net sales of forms, labels and office products increased due to the acquisitions and volume growth from new customers. Commercial printing sales increased as a result of the acquisitions offset by lower volume from large corporate customers. Logistics services increased primarily due to volume growth driven by increases in print sales. Net sales of financial print increased, primarily driven by domestic capital market transactions and global investment company compliance services. Digital Solutions net sales increased due to acquisitions. U.S. Print and Related Services income from continuing operations decreased $101.2 million, driven by the non cash charge of $257.4 million reflecting the write off of the Moore Wallace and other trade names, the impact of competitive price pressures and increased incentive compensation, partially offset by the impact of acquisitions, higher volume and improved productivity. Operating margins as a percent of sales in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment decreased to 9.6% for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to 13.0% in 2006. The margin decrease primarily resulted from the non cash charge of $257.4 million discussed above and the acquisitions of Banta and Perry Judds, both of which had lower margins than the segments historical margins, partially offset by the acquisition of Von Hoffmann which had higher historical margins. In addition, acquisitions resulted in $34.3 million of incremental amortization expense on intangible assets, which reduced operating margins by 40 basis points. International The following tables summarize net sales, income (loss) from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability within the International segment: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 (in millions) Net sales $ 2,985.2 $ 2,175.0 Income (loss) from continuing operations (315.0 ) 42.9 Operating margin (10.6 )% 2.0 % Restructuring and impairment charges 538.7 155.0 Reporting unit 2007Net Sales 2006Net Sales $Change %Change (in millions) Business process outsourcing $ 809.7 $ 678.9 $ 130.8 19.3 % Europe 572.7 546.5 26.2 4.8 % Global Turnkey Solutions 468.5 468.5 100.0 % Asia 457.5 349.0 108.5 31.1 % Latin America 436.8 381.4 55.4 14.5 % Canada 240.0 219.2 20.8 9.5 % Total International $ 2,985.2 $ 2,175.0 $ 810.2 37.3 % Net sales for the International segment for the year ended December 31, 2007 were $2,985.2 million, an increase of $810.2 million, or 37.3%, compared to 2006. Of this increase, approximately $503.8 million or 62% was due to sales from the acquired facilities of OfficeTiger and Banta and $146.3 million or 18% was the result of favorable exchange rates. Net sales of business process outsourcing increased over 2006, primarily due to favorable foreign exchange and volume growth from new customers, partially offset by the volume declines in direct mail. In Europe, substantially all of the net sales increase was the result of changes in foreign exchange rates. Global Turnkey Solutions net sales were the result of our acquisition of Banta. In Asia, book sales 33 Table of Contents increased as a result of production mainly for the U.S. and European markets, as well as continued growth with telecommunications and technology customers. The Company had higher sales of books, forms, labels and commercial printing in Latin America. Net sales of forms and labels in Canada were up slightly due to increased volume and favorable exchange rates. Income (loss) from continuing operations decreased $357.9 million primarily due to an increase in restructuring and impairment charges of $383.7 million. These charges included $436.1 million for impairment of goodwill in the business process outsourcing reporting unit and $58.7 million for the write off of the Moore Wallace, OfficeTiger and other trade names. In 2006, restructuring and impairment charges included $110.0 million for the impairment of goodwill within business process outsourcing operations and a $26.3 million write off of the Astron trade name. This increase in charges was partially offset by the incremental income from continuing operations from acquisitions, volume growth, and the realization of cost reduction plans put into place during 2007. Corporate The following table summarizes operating expenses and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as Corporate: Years EndedDecember 31, 2007 2006 (in millions) Operating expenses $ 193.7 $ 217.2 Restructuring and impairment charges 15.2 27.5 Corporate operating expenses decreased $23.5 million to $193.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in expense in 2007 is attributable to lower share based and incentive compensation expense recorded on the corporate ledger, reductions in sales and use tax reserves, and cost reductions resulting from productivity efforts and restructuring actions. These factors were partially offset by increased information technology expense and additional costs resulting from the Banta, Perry Judds and Von Hoffmann acquisitions. Corporate restructuring charges of $15.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily reflected the employee termination costs of actions taken to streamline the management structure and eliminate duplicative administrative functions. Corporate restructuring charges of $27.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily included employee termination costs incurred as a result of actions taken to reorganize certain operations and costs related to the relocation of the global headquarters within Chicago. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 Income fromcontinuingoperations(in millions) Operatingmargin Netearnings(in millions) Netearningsperdiluted share For the year ended December 31, 2005 $ 450.4 5.3 % $ 137.1 $ 0.63 2006 restructuring and impairment charges (206.1 ) (2.2 %) (172.9 ) (0.79 ) 2005 restructuring and impairment charges 419.8 5.0 % 395.6 1.83 2005 integration charges 8.3 0.1 % 5.2 0.02 Write down of affordable housing investments (10.1 ) (0.05 ) Gain on sale of investments 4.1 0.02 Income tax adjustments 23.5 0.11 Discontinued operations (43.5 ) (0.20 ) Operations 78.3 61.6 0.26 For the year ended December 31, 2006 $ 750.7 8.1 % $ 400.6 $ 1.83 34 Table of Contents 2006 restructuring and impairment charges: included $110.0 million of non cash charge for impairment of goodwill related to Global Document Solutions within the business process outsourcing operations; pretax charges of $54.1 million for employee termination costs, substantially all of which were associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities; $11.1 million of other restructuring costs, primarily lease termination costs; and $30.9 million of impairment charges of which $26.3 million reflected the write down of the Astron trade name intangible asset. 2005 restructuring and impairment charges: included $362.3 million of non cash charges for impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets in the forms and labels and Canadian reporting units; $15.9 million for employee termination costs primarily associated with restructuring actions related to the Moore Wallace acquisition and other actions to restructure operations; $33.8 million of other restructuring costs, including lease termination costs associated with the relocation of the Companys corporate headquarters, and $7.8 million of impairment of long lived assets. 2005 integration charges: included $8.3 million of post acquisition integration charges related to the Moore Wallace acquisition. Write down of affordable housing investments: Investment and other income (expense) included a $16.9 million ($10.1 million after tax) write down of the Companys investment in affordable housing in 2006. Gain on sale of investments: Investment and other income (expense) included a $7.0 million capital gain ($4.1 million after tax) on the sale of certain investment property in 2006. Income tax adjustments: reflects a $23.5 million benefit from the realization of a deferred tax asset. Discontinued operations: included a net loss of $2.0 million, primarily for the lease termination costs associated with a sub lessee bankruptcy, for the year ended December 31, 2006 and net earnings of $41.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 which is primarily due to the gain on the sale of Peak Technologies. Peak was sold on December 22, 2005. Operations: reflects improved income from continuing operations in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment primarily due to increased volume and improved productivity partially offset by increased price competition. This net increase was partially offset by slightly lower income from continuing operations in the International segment, higher interest expense of $28.3 million due to the issuance of approximately $1.0 billion of debt in May 2005 related to the acquisition of Astron and an increase in short term borrowings in April 2006 related to the acquisition of OfficeTiger. See further details in the review of operating results by segment that follows below. The following table shows the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, which reflects the results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates. Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 $ Change % Change (in millions) Net sales $ 9,316.6 $ 8,430.2 $ 886.4 10.5 % Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 6,798.9 6,090.3 708.6 11.6 % Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 1,097.6 1,044.7 52.9 5.1 % Restructuring and impairment charges 206.1 419.8 (213.7 ) (50.9 )% Depreciation and amortization 463.3 425.0 38.3 9.0 % Total operating expenses 8,565.9 7,979.8 586.1 7.3 % Income from continuing operations $ 750.7 $ 450.4 $ 300.3 66.7 % 35 Table of Contents Consolidated Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased $886.4 million, or 10.5%, to $9,316.6 million versus the prior year. Of this increase, slightly more than half was due to acquisitions, most significantly Astron and OfficeTiger. The increase in net sales was also driven by volume growth across products and services in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and International segment, partially offset by the continuing impact of competitive price pressures in most industry sectors. Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) increased $708.6 million to $6,798.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 versus the prior year primarily due to acquisitions, increased volume and higher paper prices. In addition, the Company revised its allocation of benefits expenses in the first quarter of 2006, which resulted in an increase to cost of sales relative to the first quarter of 2005. This increase in benefits cost was completely offset by a decrease in benefits cost allocated to selling, general and administrative expenses. Cost of sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales increased from 72.2% to 73.0% due to the reallocation of benefits expenses, continuing price competition in most markets, higher energy costs and the impact of higher paper prices partially offset by cost reductions achieved through restructuring activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) increased $52.9 million to $1,097.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 versus the prior year primarily due to acquisitions and other net sales increases, partially offset by the change in the allocation of benefits expenses described above. Other items impacting this comparison included an increase in employee benefit costs and bad debt expense in 2006, partially offset by cost reductions due to productivity efforts and restructuring. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated net sales decreased to 11.8% in 2006 from 12.4% in 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $206.1 million, compared to $419.8 million in 2005. In 2006, these charges included $110.0 million for the impairment of goodwill of Global Document Solutions within the business process outsourcing operations in the International segment and $30.9 million for impairment of assets, of which $26.3 million reflected the write down of the Astron trade name intangible asset. In addition, these charges included $54.1 million for workforce reductions of 1,396 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2007), associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities and $11.1 million of other restructuring costs primarily related to lease terminations in exited facilities. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the charges included $311.6 million for the impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment; $50.7 million for the impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for the Canadian reporting unit within the International segment; $15.7 million primarily related to the relocation of the Companys global corporate headquarters within Chicago; $15.9 million related to workforce reductions of 500 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2007); and other costs incurred to restructure operations within the segments. Depreciation and amortization increased $38.3 million to $463.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to acquisitions. Depreciation and amortization included $73.2 million and $58.3 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, trade names, patents and covenants not to compete for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $750.7 million compared to $450.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase was primarily driven by a reduction in restructuring and impairment charges of $213.7 million. In addition, other drivers included the increase in net sales, productivity improvements, and the benefits of restructuring activities, partially offset by increased depreciation and amortization expense and higher selling and administrative expenses primarily due to acquisitions. Net interest expense increased by $28.3 million to $139.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 versus 2005 due to the issuance of approximately $1.0 billion of debt in May 2005 related to the acquisition of Astron and the increase in short term borrowings in April 2006 related to the acquisition of OfficeTiger. 36 Table of Contents Net investment and other expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $10.4 million versus $7.9 million in 2005. Included in net investment and other expense were charges of $18.4 million (including an impairment charge of $16.9 million) and $8.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, reflecting declines in the underlying estimated fair market values of the Companys affordable housing investments. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded a gain of $7.0 million on the sale of certain investment property. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006 was 32.6%. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the effective income tax rate was 71.5%, primarily reflecting the charge for impairment of goodwill of $353.6 million, for which the Company did not record any tax benefit. The decrease in the effective rate in 2006 also reflects the impact of a $23.5 million benefit from the realization of a U.S. deferred tax asset and the reversal of reserves for tax contingencies of $27.3 million. Net earnings from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $402.6 million, or $1.84 per diluted share, compared to $95.6 million or $0.44 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2005. In addition to the factors discussed above, the per share results reflect an increase in weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 2.2 million shares primarily due to the vesting and issuance of share based compensation and additional awards during the year. The net loss from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 of $2.0 million primarily reflected costs resulting from a sub lessee bankruptcy related to a facility previously occupied by the Companys package logistics business. Income (loss) from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $41.5 million, primarily related to the Peak Technologies business (Peak). Income (loss) from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 included a net gain of $55.2 million on the sale of Peak, including pre tax impairment charges of $36.6 million and tax benefits of $93.5 million. U.S. Print and Related Services The following tables summarize net sales, income from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment: Year EndedDecember 31, 2006 2005 (in millions) Net sales $ 7,141.6 $ 6,882.8 Income from continuing operations 925.0 562.2 Operating Margin 13.0 % 8.2 % Restructuring and impairment charges 23.6 337.2 Reporting unit(1) 2006Net Sales 2005Net Sales $Change %Change (in millions) Magazines, catalogs and retail inserts $ 2,110.1 $ 2,027.1 $ 83.0 4.1 % Books and directories 1,291.6 1,270.3 21.3 1.7 % Variable print 955.4 963.0 (7.6 ) (0.8 %) Forms and labels 907.2 883.8 23.4 2.6 % Commercial print 721.3 652.5 68.8 10.5 % Financial print 511.7 492.8 18.9 3.8 % Logistics 514.5 468.1 46.4 9.9 % Digital Solutions 129.8 125.2 4.6 3.7 % Total U.S. Print and Related Services $ 7,141.6 $ 6,882.8 $ 258.8 3.8 % (1) The above table represents net sales by reporting unit. Based on capacity and utilization, at times other products may be produced within a reporting unit to meet customer needs and improve operating efficiency. 37 Table of Contents Net sales for the U.S. Print and Related Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2006 were $7,141.6 million, an increase of $258.8 million, or 3.8%, compared to 2005. The increase resulted from volume increases across most products and services in the segment and higher paper prices passed on to customers, partially offset by downward price pressures. Sales of magazines, catalogs and retail inserts increased, driven by volume increases from new customer contracts, increased business with existing customers and higher paper prices that were passed on to customers, partially offset by lower prices associated with major contract renewals. Net sales of books and directories increased driven by additional book volume from telecommunications and technology customers and higher directory volume from most major customers partially offset by price declines on major contract renewals. Sales of variable print products decreased slightly as volume declines and customer losses in statement printing more than offset increased sales in direct mail, due to growth from long run marketing programs in the financial print and not for profit markets. Net sales of forms and labels increased slightly due to volume growth from existing customers. Commercial print net sales were up considerably from 2005 driven by volume growth across most regions, primarily from large corporate customers. Financial print sales increased due to investment company compliance services. Net sales of logistics services increased primarily due to volume growth across most service lines. Digital solutions net sales increased slightly as a result of increased volume and work for new customers. U.S. Print and Related Services income from continuing operations increased $362.8 million driven by reduced restructuring and impairment charges, higher volume and improved productivity, partially offset by the impact of competitive price pressures, inflationary increases in wages, benefits and other costs, and higher energy costs. Operating margins in U.S. Print and Related Services increased to 13.0% in 2006 from 8.2% in 2005. The operating margin increase was driven by a reduction in restructuring and impairment charges of $313.6 million. International The following tables summarize net sales, income from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability within the International segment: Years EndedDecember 31, 2006 2005 (in millions) Net sales $ 2,175.0 $ 1,547.4 Income from continuing operations 42.9 91.7 Operating margin 2.0 % 5.9 % Restructuring and impairment charges 155.0 57.7 Reporting unit(1) 2006Net Sales 2005Net Sales $Change %Change (in millions) Business process outsourcing $ 678.9 $ 359.3 $ 319.6 88.9 % Europe 546.5 432.9 113.6 26.2 % Latin America 381.4 330.7 50.7 15.3 % Asia 349.0 228.1 120.9 53.0 % Canada 219.2 196.4 22.8 11.6 % Total International $ 2,175.0 $ 1,547.4 $ 627.6 40.6 % (1) The above table represents net sales by reporting unit. Based on capacity and utilization, at times other products may be produced to meet customer needs and improve operating efficiency. Net sales in the International segment for the year ended December 31, 2006 were $2,175.0 million, an increase of $627.6 million, or 40.6%, compared to 2005. Of this increase, approximately 71% was due to the acquisitions of Astron, OfficeTiger, Asia Printers and Poligrafia. The remaining increase in net sales was primarily driven by volume growth in most of the segments products and services, partially offset by competitive price pressure. Business process outsourcing operations increased due to the acquisition of 38 Table of Contents OfficeTiger and the full year impact of the 2005 Astron acquisition partially offset by reduced volume and lower prices on significant customers at Astron. Net sales in Europe increased due to the Poligrafia acquisition, higher volume for telecommunication and technology and increases in directory, magazine and retail volume. Net sales increased in Latin America, primarily driven by book and commercial print volume growth. Book sales in Asia increased as a result of demand from the U.S. market and from the Asia Printers acquisition. Net sales of forms and labels in Canada increased due to volume growth from existing and new customers. Income from continuing operations decreased $48.8 million from 2005 driven by the higher restructuring and impairment charges, partially offset by increased net sales and productivity improvements. In 2006, restructuring and impairment charges included $110.0 million for the impairment of goodwill for Global Document Solutions within the business process outsourcing operations and a $26.3 million write off of the Astron trade name. Operating margins decreased to 2.0% in 2006 from 5.9% in 2005. The operating margin decrease was driven by increased restructuring and impairment charges, which were offset by cost reductions realized from productivity initiatives, and increased sales prices in 2006. Corporate The following table summarizes operating expenses and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as Corporate: Years EndedDecember 31, 2006 2005 (in millions) Operating expenses $ 217.2 $ 203.5 Restructuring and impairment charges 27.5 24.9 Corporate operating expenses increased $13.7 million, primarily reflecting increases in restructuring and impairment charges, unallocated employee benefit costs and higher provision for bad debts partially offset by cost reductions from productivity efforts and restructuring actions. RESTRUCTURING, IMPAIRMENT, AND ACQUISITION RELATED CHARGES During 2007, the Company recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $839.0 million. These charges included $316.1 million for the write off of the Moore Wallace, OfficeTiger and other trade names associated with the Companys decision in June 2007 to unify most of its printing and related service offerings under the single RR Donnelley brand. Additionally, the 2007 charges included $436.1 million for the impairment of goodwill resulting from the OfficeTiger and Astron acquisitions within the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment and $26.4 million for the impairment of other long lived assets, of which $19.1 million relates to the write off of capitalized customer contract set up costs in the business process outsourcing reporting unit. In addition, these charges included $49.3 million related to workforce reductions of 1,169 employees (1,092 of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2007), associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities. These actions included management changes to simplify and consolidate the management reporting structure and cost structure reductions including the closing of two manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and two manufacturing facilities within the International segment. In addition, $11.1 million of other restructuring costs including lease terminations in exited facilities were recorded for the year ended December 31, 2007. During 2007, the Company capitalized $63.7 million of restructuring costs related to employee terminations and other costs in connection with the acquisitions of Banta, Perry Judds, Von Hoffmann, and Cardinal Brands. Costs of $55.1 million were for planned workforce reductions of 857 employees resulting from the elimination of duplicative administrative functions and the planned closure of five operating facilities. Charges of $8.6 million of other restructuring costs included lease terminations in exited facilities. 39 Table of Contents During 2006, the Company recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $206.1 million. These charges included $110.0 million for the non cash impairment of goodwill within the business process outsourcing operations of the International segment; $30.9 million for impairment of assets of which $26.3 million reflects the non cash write down of the Astron trade name intangible asset; and $11.1 million of other restructuring costs, primarily lease termination costs. Additionally, the Company recorded $54.1 million for employee termination costs, of which, $19.1 million was for management and other staff reductions associated with the Companys management structure realignment in the fourth quarter. The workforce reductions totaled 1,396 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2007), associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities. During 2005, the Company recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $419.8 million. These charges included $311.6 million for the non cash impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment; $50.7 million for the non cash impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for the Canadian reporting unit within the International segment; $15.9 million related to employee termination costs; $33.8 million of other restructuring costs related to lease termination and relocation costs; and $7.8 million of other impairment charges. The restructuring charge for employee terminations related to workforce reductions of 500 employees, all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2007. These workforce reductions were primarily associated with the continuation of 2004 restructuring plans related to the Moore Wallace acquisition and other actions to restructure operations in the segments. Other charges primarily relate to lease termination charges mainly associated with the relocation of the Companys corporate headquarters within Chicago, the relocation of a logistics facility in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the exiting of a European financial print facility in the International segment. Additional restructuring charges included employee and equipment relocation costs associated with the Moore Wallace acquisition restructuring plans and other actions to restructure certain operational activities. In 2008, the Company expects to realize further cost savings associated with the restructuring actions taken in 2007, primarily through reduced employee and facility costs. The Company anticipates that payments associated with lease exit costs ($12.6 million) will be substantially complete by 2017. Market conditions and the Companys ability to sublease these properties could affect the ultimate charge and cash payments related to these lease obligations. The Company expects to identify further cost reduction opportunities within both current and newly acquired businesses, which may result in additional restructuring charges. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES LIQUIDITY The Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to support the ongoing activities of the business and to invest in future growth to create value for its shareholders. Operating cash flows are the Companys primary source of liquidity and are expected to be used for, among other things, interest and principal on the Companys debt obligations, dividend payments that may be approved by the Board of Directors, capital expenditures as necessary to support growth and productivity improvement, completion of restructuring programs, additional acquisitions and future common stock repurchases based upon market conditions. Additional sources of liquidity include cash and cash equivalents of $379.0 million as of December 31, 2007, a commercial paper program and credit facilities described under Capital Resources below. Cash Flows From Operating Activities 2007 compared to 2006 Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $1,176.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations of $903.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase primarily reflects the impacts of acquisitions, volume growth and productivity efforts, partially offset by higher cash payments for restructuring, interest, and income taxes. 40 Table of Contents 2006 compared to 2005 Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $903.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations of $971.5 million for the same period in the prior year. The decrease was the result of higher cash payments for employee incentive compensation, resulting from improved financial performance in 2005 compared to 2004, and for income taxes. Payments associated with new customer contracts also increased and accounts payable increased less than in 2005 due to the timing of vendor payments. In addition, interest payments increased as a result of additional debt used to finance the Astron and OfficeTiger acquisitions. These uses of cash were partially offset by higher earnings and a smaller increase in inventories and accounts receivable. Cash Flows From Investing Activities 2007 compared to 2006 Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $2,510.9 million versus net cash used in investing activities of $608.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Net cash used for acquisition of businesses in the year ended December 31, 2007 included $2,052.4 million for the acquisition of Banta, Perry Judds, Von Hoffmann and Cardinal Brands. Capital expenditures were $482.0 million, an increase of $107.7 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase reflects increased investment in expansion projects to support increased volume in Asia and Europe and capital spending at acquired businesses. The Company continues to fund capital expenditures primarily through cash provided by operations. The Company expects that capital expenditures for 2008 will be between $425 and $435 million, or approximately 3.5% of projected revenue. 2006 compared to 2005 Net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $608.4 million versus net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations of $1,621.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2006, capital expenditures were $374.3 million versus $471.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease reflects lower spending in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment partially offset by increased investment in expansion projects to support volume growth in the International segments Asian and European operations and capital spending at acquired businesses. Net cash used for acquisition of businesses included $248.8 million for the acquisition of OfficeTiger, partially offset by $4.5 million in cash received for purchase price adjustments for 2005 acquisitions. Net cash used for acquisitions of businesses in 2005 was $1,194.3 million for the acquisitions of Astron, Asia Printers, Charlestown, Poligrafia, Spencer and CMCS. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company received $10.2 million in proceeds from the sale of various assets. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company received $43.4 million in proceeds from the sale of various assets. Cash Flows From Financing Activities 2007 compared to 2006 Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $1,476.2 million compared to net cash used in financing activities of $457.8 million in 2006. The Company received proceeds of $1,244.2 million from an issuance of long term debt in order to fund a portion of the acquisitions of Banta and Perry Judds. The net change in other short term debt was a cash inflow of $282.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2007 reflecting the Companys issuance of commercial paper related to the Banta, Perry Judds and Von Hoffmann acquisitions and share repurchases compared to a net decrease in other short term debt of $21.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The Company also received proceeds from borrowings under its revolving credit facility of $400.0 million to fund these acquisitions and share repurchases. Additionally, the Company received proceeds of $95.5 million from exercises of stock options, net of excess tax benefits. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company purchased in the open market approximately 7.7 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $309.5 million. 41 Table of Contents 2006 compared to 2005 Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $457.8 million compared to net cash provided by financing activities of continuing operations of $378.5 million in 2005. Debt reduction for the year ended December 31, 2006 included $246.7 million in payments of current maturities and long term debt and a net decrease in short term debt of $21.6 million. The Company received proceeds of approximately $1.0 billion from the issuance of long term debt in May 2005 in order to fund the acquisition of Astron in June 2005. During 2005, the Company purchased approximately 8.5 million shares of its common stock at a total cash cost of $270.4 million, of which 6.0 million of these shares were purchased from affiliates of GSC Partners in a privately negotiated transaction at a purchase price of approximately $200.0 million. The remaining stock purchases during that period were made in the open market or were shares withheld for employee tax liabilities upon vesting of equity awards. Stock repurchases for the year ended December 31, 2006 were $1.8 million. Cash Flows From Discontinued Operations Net cash used in discontinued operations for 2007 was $0.7 million compared to net cash used in discontinued operations of $0.2 million in 2006, and $4.6 million in 2005, including the proceeds from the sale of Peak Technologies. Other Included in cash and cash equivalents of $379.0 million at December 31, 2007 were short term investments in the amount of $87.8 million, which primarily consist of certificate and short term deposits and money market funds. These investments are with institutions with sound credit ratings and are believed to be highly liquid. Dividends Cash dividends paid to shareholders totaled $226.8 million, $225.0 million and $223.4 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company has consistently paid a dividend since becoming a public company in 1956 and currently has no plans to cease or reduce its dividend payments in 2008. The Company believes it will continue to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to pay future dividends that may be approved by the Companys Board of Directors. On January 10, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.26 per common share, payable on March 3, 2008 to shareholders of record on January 25, 2008. Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commitments and Contingencies The following table quantifies our future contractual obligations: Payments Due In Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter (in millions) Total debt(1) $ 5,882.4 $ 936.9 $ 594.8 $ 670.8 $ 158.3 $ 765.4 $ 2,756.2 Operating leases 677.7 146.7 113.3 93.5 71.3 55.3 197.6 Other(2)(3) 289.0 213.0 72.9 3.1 Total as of December 31, 2007 $ 6,849.1 $ 1,296.6 $ 781.0 $ 767.4 $ 229.6 $ 820.7 $ 2,953.8 (1) Total debt as of December 31, 2007 includes scheduled interest payments. (2) Other represents contractual obligations for outsourced services ($142.9 million), purchases of property, plant and equipment ($90.9 million), restructuring related severance payments ($32.8 million) and purchases of natural gas ($6.0 million). 42 Table of Contents (3) The Company has included $16.4 million of uncertain tax liabilities under FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, that are classified as current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. Excluded from the table are $195.8 million of uncertain tax liabilities, as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or timing of settlement. The Company expects to pay $211.9 million in interest in 2008. In addition, the Company expects to make cash contributions of approximately $35.6 million to its pension plans and approximately $15.8 million to its postretirement benefit plans in 2008, which are not reflected above. On February 22, 2006, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to 10 million shares of the Companys common stock through a variety of methods, including open market purchases, block transactions, accelerated share repurchase agreements or private transactions. Following such authorization and prior to July 25, 2007, the Company repurchased 4 million shares. On July 25, 2007, the Board of Directors increased the share repurchase program by 4 million shares, taking the total number of shares authorized for repurchase back to 10 million shares. Subsequent to July 25, 2007 and through December 31, 2007, the Company repurchased approximately 3.7 million shares. As of December 31, 2007, the Company is authorized under the terms of its share repurchase program to repurchase approximately 6.3 million shares. Such purchases may be made from time to time and discontinued at any time. On February 22, 2008, the Board increased the share repurchase program by approximately 3.7 million shares, bringing the total number of shares authorized for repurchase back to 10 million shares. CAPITAL RESOURCES The Company has a $2.0 billion unsecured and committed revolving credit facility (the Facility) that can be used for general corporate purposes, including letters of credit and as a backstop for the Companys $2.0 billion commercial paper program. The Facility is subject to a number of restrictive covenants that, in part, limit the ability of the Company to create liens on assets, engage in mergers and consolidations, or dispose of assets. The financial covenants require a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. The Company pays an annual commitment fee of 0.08% and LIBOR plus a spread on borrowings under the Facility. This Facility has a maturity date of January 8, 2012. As of December 31, 2007, there were $400.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the Facility. The Company also has $228.8 million in credit facilities outside of the U.S., most of which are uncommitted. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had $37.1 million in outstanding letters of credit, of which $24.6 million reduced availability under the Companys credit facilities. Additionally, as of December 31, 2007, there were $308.1 million of borrowings under the Companys commercial paper program. At December 31, 2007, approximately $1.3 billion was available under the Companys committed credit facilities. On February 27, 2008, the Company signed a definitive agreement to acquire Pro Line, a multi facility, privately held producer of newspaper inserts headquartered in Irving, Texas for a purchase price of approximately $122 million. The Company expects to finance this acquisition through the issuance of commercial paper and existing cash on hand. On December 27, 2007, the Company acquired Cardinal Brands, for a purchase price of approximately $123 million. The Company financed this acquisition through issuances of commercial paper and with existing cash on hand. On May 16, 2007, the Company acquired Von Hoffmann, for a purchase price of approximately $413 million. The Company financed this acquisition through issuances of commercial paper and with existing cash on hand. On January 24, 2007, the Company acquired Perry Judds, for a purchase price of approximately $182 million. The Company financed this acquisition with the proceeds from the issuance of the notes described previously, through issuances of commercial paper and with existing cash on hand. On January 8, 2007, the Company issued $625 million of 5.625% notes due January 15, 2012 and $625 million of 6.125% notes due January 15, 2017. On January 9, 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of Banta for approximately $1.4 billion in cash. The Company financed this acquisition with the proceeds from the issuance of these notes and short term borrowings under its commercial paper program. 43 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31 2007, the Company purchased in the open market approximately 7.7 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $309.5 million. The Company financed these share repurchases with existing cash on hand, through issuances of commercial paper and with borrowings under the Facility. As of December 31, 2007, the Company is authorized, under the terms of a share repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors, to repurchase up to approximately 6.3 million shares. On February 22, 2008, the Board increased the share repurchase program by approximately 3.7 million shares, bringing the total number of shares authorized for repurchase back to 10 million shares. The Company was in compliance with its debt covenants as of December 31, 2007. On January 3, 2007, the Company filed a new shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the rules permitting well known seasoned issuers, or WKSIs, to register an unlimited amount of securities to be issued from time to time in the future. Pursuant to the rules governing WKSI registration statements, the Companys WKSI registration statement automatically became effective and available for use upon filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company completed its first offering from its WKSI registration statement on January 8, 2007 when the Company issued the $625.0 million of 5.625% notes due January 15, 2012 and $625.0 million of 6.125% notes due January 15, 2017 referred to above. Under this WKSI registration statement, provided the Company has necessary corporate approvals to do so, the Company may issue an unlimited amount of securities for any purpose designated by the Company, including acquisitions and refinancing existing obligations. The Company has not relied on sources of funding from structured investment vehicles or the issuance of asset backed commercial paper. As such, the Companys liquidity has remained strong throughout the ongoing credit market turmoil. Risk Management The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 83% of the Companys outstanding term debt was comprised of fixed rate debt. Variable rate commercial paper and short term LIBOR based borrowings have increased to partially fund the Companys acquisitions of Banta, Perry Judds, Von Hoffmann and Cardinal Brands and to finance share repurchases. At December 31, 2007, the Companys exposure to rate fluctuations on variable interest borrowings is limited to $725.0 million of short term debt. The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2007, the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts was approximately $162.0 million. Unrealized gains and losses from these foreign currency contracts were not significant at December 31, 2007. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The Company has outstanding cross currency swaps with an aggregate notional value of $1,176.3 million, consisting of British pound sterling (GBP) 395.0 million, which exchange GBP for U.S. dollars; Eurodollar (EUR) 182.7 million, which exchange EUR for U.S. dollars; and GBP 125.0 million, which exchange GBP for EUR. These swaps require the Company to pay a fixed interest rate on the GBP notional amount and receive a fixed interest rate on the U.S. dollar notional amount, pay a fixed interest rate on the EUR notional amount and receive a fixed interest rate on the U.S. dollar notional amount and pay a fixed interest rate on the GBP notional amount and receive a fixed interest rate on the EUR notional amount, respectively. These swaps expire in 2010 ($682.5 million notional amount) and 2015 ($493.8 million notional amount). The Company has designated $675.8 million of the swaps as a cash flow hedge of the variability of the forecasted cash receipts from GBP 44 Table of Contents denominated intercompany loans and $500.5 million of the swaps as a hedge of net investments in GBP and EUR denominated foreign operations. At December 31, 2007, the fair market value of these cross currency swaps of $72.0 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities. A gain of $1.1 million was recognized in net other income for the year ended December 31, 2007 for the portion of the changes in fair value of the cross currency swaps that was ineffective as a net investment hedge. A loss of $1.5 million was recognized in net other expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 related to the changes in fair value of the cross currency swaps that was ineffective as a net investment hedge. OTHER INFORMATION Environmental, Health and Safety For a discussion of certain environmental, health and safety issues involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements. Litigation and Contingent Liabilities For a discussion of certain litigation involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements. New Accounting Pronouncements and Pending Accounting Standards During 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company adopted various accounting standards as described in Note 11, Retirement Plans, Note 12, Income Taxes and Note 17, Stock and Incentive Programs for Employees to the consolidated financial statements. Pending standards and their estimated effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements are described in Note 21, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the consolidated financial statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 83% of the Companys outstanding term debt was comprised of fixed rate debt. Variable rate commercial paper and short term LIBOR based borrowings have increased to partially fund the Companys acquisitions of Banta, Perry Judds, Von Hoffmann and Cardinal Brands and to finance share repurchases. At December 31, 2007, the Companys exposure to rate fluctuations on variable interest borrowings is limited to $725.0 million of short term debt. The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts was approximately $162.0 million and $153.6 million, respectively. The Company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change in interest and foreign currency rates. Using this sensitivity analysis, such changes would not have a material effect on interest income or expense, foreign currency gains and losses, and cash flows; and would change the fair values of fixed rate debt at December 31, 2007 and 2006 by approximately $111.5 million and $84.9 million, respectively. 45 Table of Contents Credit Risk The Company is exposed to credit risk on accounts receivable balances. This risk is limited due to the Companys large, diverse customer base, dispersed over various geographic regions and industrial sectors. No single customer comprised more than 10% of the Companys consolidated net sales in 2007, 2006 or 2005. The Company maintains provisions for potential credit losses and any such losses to date have been within the Companys expectations. Commodities The primary raw materials used by the Company are paper and ink. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company has incorporated price adjustment clauses in certain sales contracts. Management believes a hypothetical 10% change in the price of paper and other raw materials would not have a significant effect on the Companys consolidated annual results of operations or cash flows because these costs are generally passed through to its customers. 
 
