ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of RR Donnelleys financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements included in Item 15 of Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Business R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company (RR Donnelley, the Company, we, us, and our) is a global provider of integrated communications. Founded more than 145 years ago, the Company works collaboratively with more than 60,000 customers worldwide to develop custom communications solutions that reduce costs, enhance return on investment and ensure compliance. Drawing on a range of proprietary and commercially available digital and conventional technologies deployed across four continents, the Company employs a suite of leading Internet based capabilities and other resources to provide premedia, printing, logistics and business process outsourcing products and services to leading clients in virtually every private and public sector. The Company operates primarily in the commercial print portion of the printing industry, with related service offerings designed to offer customers complete solutions for communicating their messages to target audiences. The Companys reportable segments reflect the management reporting structure of the organization and the manner in which the chief operating decision maker regularly assesses information for decision making purposes, including the allocation of resources. The reporting structure includes two segments: U.S. Print and Related Services and International. The U.S. Print and Related Services segment includes the Companys U.S. printing operations, managed as one integrated platform, along with related logistics, premedia and print management services. This segments products and related service offerings include magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, financial printing, direct mail, forms, labels, office products, statement printing, premedia and logistics services. The International segment includes the Companys non U.S. printing operations in Asia, Europe, Latin America and Canada. Additionally, this segment includes the Companys business process outsourcing and Global Turnkey Solutions operations. Business process outsourcing provides transactional print and outsourcing services, statement printing, direct mail and print management services through its operations in Europe, Asia and North America. Global Turnkey Solutions provides outsourcing capabilities including product configuration, customized kitting and order fulfillment for technology, medical device and other companies around the world through its operations in Europe, North America and Asia. 18 Table of Contents Executive Overview 2009 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The changes in the Companys income (loss) from continuing operations, operating margin, net loss attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders and net loss attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2009, from the year ended December 31, 2008, were primarily due to the following (in millions, except per share data): Income (Loss)fromContinuingOperations OperatingMargin Net LossAttributable toRR DonnelleyCommonShareholders Net LossAttributable toRR DonnelleyCommonShareholdersperDiluted Share For the year ended December 31, 2008 $ (40.5 ) (0.3 %) $ (189.9 ) $ (0.90 ) 2009 restructuring and impairment charges (382.7 ) (3.9 %) (334.0 ) (1.63 ) 2008 restructuring and impairment charges 1,184.7 10.2 % 1,073.9 5.11 2009 acquisition related expenses (1.6 ) 0.0 % (1.0 ) 2009 losses related to debt extinguishment (8.0 ) (0.04 ) 2009 write down of affordable housing investments (1.5 ) (0.01 ) 2008 loss on termination of cross currency swaps 1.8 0.01 Non recurring income taxes net (282.4 ) (1.35 ) Discontinued operations (1.8 ) (0.01 ) Operations (415.6 ) (2.5 %) (284.4 ) (1.31 ) For the year ended December 31, 2009 $ 344.3 3.5 % $ (27.3 ) $ (0.13 ) 2009 pre tax restructuring and impairment charges: included $128.5 million of non cash charges for the impairment of goodwill; charges of $118.6 million, discounted for future cash payments, for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, of which $117.2 million, $0.8 million and $0.6 million are reflected as other restructuring charges, impairment and employee terminations, respectively; $78.8 million for other employee termination costs, substantially all of which were associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities; $32.1 million of other restructuring costs, primarily lease termination costs; and $24.7 million for impairment of long lived assets. 2008 pre tax restructuring and impairment charges: included $1,125.4 million of non cash charges for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; charges of $44.1 million for employee termination costs, substantially all of which were associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities; $10.6 million of other restructuring costs, primarily lease termination costs; and $4.6 million for impairment of other long lived assets. 2009 acquisition related expenses: legal, accounting and other expenses associated with current year acquisitions completed or contemplated. 2009 losses related to debt extinguishment: included a $10.3 million pre tax loss on the repurchases of $466.4 million of the 5.625% senior notes due January 15, 2012 and $174.2 million of the 4.95% senior notes due May 15, 2010, as well as the reclassification of a pre tax loss of $2.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to investment and other expense due to the change in the hedged forecasted interest payments resulting from the repurchase of the 4.95% senior notes. 2009 write down of affordable housing investments: Investment and other income (expense) included a $2.4 million ($1.5 million after tax) write down of the Companys affordable housing investments in 2009. 19 Table of Contents 2008 pre tax loss on termination of cross currency swaps: Investment and other income (expense) included a $9.9 million ($1.8 million after tax) loss in 2008 resulting from the Companys termination of its cross currency swaps. Non recurring income taxes: included $15.6 million of income tax expense in 2009 due to the reorganization of entities within the International segment. In addition, reflected tax benefits of $228.8 million realized in 2008 related to the decline in value and reorganization of certain entities within the International segment, as well as a benefit of $38.0 million in 2008 from the recognition of uncertain tax positions upon the final settlement of certain U.S. federal tax audits for the years 2000 2002. Operations: reflected lower net sales primarily driven by the global economic slowdown, higher incentive compensation expense and lower pricing on by products sales, partially offset by cost savings from restructuring actions and productivity efforts, a benefit resulting from lower LIFO inventory provisions and the impact of 2008 share repurchases. See further details in the review of operating results by segment that follows below. 2009 Overview The impact of the recession on the global economy and on our customers resulted in significant volume declines across nearly all products and services during 2009, particularly in the magazines, catalogs and retail inserts and books and directories reporting units. On a consolidated pro forma basis, net sales declined approximately 15.2% (See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Included in this decline were changes in foreign exchange rates that resulted in declines of net sales of $201.1 million, or 1.7%, during 2009. The year over year rate of decline in net sales slowed during the last four months of the year, which showed sequential improvement as compared to the first half of the year. The Company has continued to have success in renewing and extending customer contracts, some of which have been at reduced prices, while further expanding the scope of services with existing customers and winning new business. In addition, the Company has aggressively implemented restructuring actions and other cost containment initiatives, which have helped to partially mitigate the effects of the volume shortfalls. During the third quarter of 2009, the Company signed an agreement to terminate a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, which allowed the Company to withdraw from certain unprofitable operations in this area. As a result, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges, discounted for future cash payments, of $118.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Payments related to these charges are expected to be made through 2011, with $22.2 million paid in 2009 and $57.5 million paid in January 2010. The Company expects to continue its focus on cost control and productivity improvement as it continues to face an uncertain economic environment. As a result of targets achieved related to increased cash flow from operations, improved working capital management and productivity, as well as the improving trends in net sales, the Company will have higher full year payouts under its employee incentive compensation plans as compared to 2008, for which no payouts were made under the Companys primary incentive compensation plans. Incentive compensation expense for all plans in 2009 totaled approximately $113.9 million, an increase of approximately $97.2 million as compared to 2008. Of this increase, approximately $72.5 million, $10.7 million and $14.0 million was reflected in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, International segment and Corporate, respectively. Cash flows from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $407.0 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, despite the declines in net sales and earnings. This increase reflected the receipt of income tax refunds of $164.1 million and decreases in working capital requirements driven by volume declines and a focus on improved working capital management. The Company also reduced its capital expenditures by $127.9 million, or 39.6%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The strong operating cash flow in the year ended December 31, 2009 enabled the Company to maintain its total available liquidity while also reducing long term debt. As of December 31, 2009, cash and cash equivalents totaled 20 Table of Contents $499.2 million and approximately $1.4 billion was available for borrowings under the Companys committed credit facilities. Total debt decreased from $4.1 billion at December 31, 2008 to $3.3 billion at December 31, 2009. OUTLOOK Vision and Strategy RR Donnelleys vision is to improve on our existing position as a global provider of integrated communications by providing our customers with the highest quality products and services. The Companys long term strategy is focused on maximizing long term shareholder value by driving profitable growth, continuing its focus on productivity and maintaining a disciplined approach to capital deployment. To increase shareholder value, the Company pursues three major strategic objectives. These objectives are summarized below, along with more specific areas of focus. Strategic Objective Focus Areas 2010 Priorities Profitable growth Optimize platform utilization Leverage global customer relationships Focus on core print operations Leverage existing relationships to generate organic growth Cost saving solutions for customers Grow digital platforms as an integral element of market offering Productivity Disciplined cost management Productivity focused investment plans Streamline and standardize processes Leverage scale to optimize asset utilization and procurement Further streamline sales and operations Leverage global capabilities Use technology to increase productivity Disciplined capital deployment Maintain strong financial position Targeted mergers and acquisitions Maintain dividend Improve liquidity and reduce debt Meet changing customer demands Disciplined due diligence and financial analysis Despite the current recessionary environment, the Companys long term strategy is to generate profitable growth. In order to accomplish this, the Company will continue to make targeted capital investments to support new business and leverage its global platform. The Company is focusing its information technology efforts on projects that facilitate integration and make it easier for customers to manage their full range of communication needs. The Company is also working to more fully integrate its sales efforts to broaden customer relationships and meet our customers demands. The Companys global platform provides differentiated solutions for its customers through its broad range of complementary print related services, strong logistics capabilities, and its innovative leadership in both conventional and digital technologies. Management believes productivity improvement and cost reduction are critical to the Companys competitiveness, while enhancing the value the Company delivers to its customers. The Company has implemented strategic initiatives across all platforms to reduce its overall cost structure and enhance productivity, including restructuring, consolidation, reorganization and integration of operations, and streamlining of administrative and support activities. The Company seeks to deploy its capital using a disciplined and balanced approach in order to ensure financial flexibility and provide returns to shareholders. Priorities for capital deployment, over time, include principal and interest payments on debt obligations, dividend payments to shareholders, capital expenditures, targeted acquisitions and share repurchases. In order to manage through credit market disruptions in the current economic environment, maintaining liquidity and reducing debt is a high priority. The Company believes that its 21 Table of Contents strong financial condition is important to customers focused on establishing or growing long term relationships with a stable provider of print and related services. Especially in the current economic environment, the Companys financial strength is seen as a competitive advantage. The Company also expects the current economic environment to create opportunities for targeted acquisitions that extend its capabilities, drive cost savings and reduce future capital spending needs. The Company uses several key indicators to gauge progress toward achieving these objectives. These indicators include net sales growth, operating margins, cash flow from operations and capital expenditures. The Company targets long term net sales growth at or above industry levels, while achieving modest growth in operating margins. Combined with working capital management, this growth is expected to drive increasing cash flow from operations over time. Cash flow from operations can, however, be significantly impacted by the timing of non recurring or infrequent receipts and expenditures. Industry Environment The Company faces many challenges and risks as a result of competing in highly competitive global markets. Item 1A, Risk Factors, discusses many of these issues, but the Companys strategy is primarily focused on meeting the challenges of industry wide price competition and the advancement of technology. Overcapacity and pricing environment The print and related services industry, in general, continues to have excess capacity and remains highly competitive. Despite some consolidation in recent years, the printing industry remains highly fragmented. Across the Companys range of products and services, competition is based primarily on price, in addition to quality and the ability to service the special needs of customers. The additional excess capacity created by the recent declines in industry volume has resulted in intensified price competition in some product lines. Management expects that prices for the Companys products and services will continue to be a focal point for customers in coming years. As a result of these ongoing industry dynamics, the Company believes it needs to continuously lower its cost structure and further differentiate its products and service offerings. Technology Technological changes, including the electronic distribution of documents and data, online distribution and hosting of media content, advances in digital printing, print on demand and Internet technologies, continue to impact the market for the Companys products and services. The Company seeks to leverage distinctive capabilities of its products and services to improve its customers communications, whether in paper form or through electronic communications. The Companys goal remains to help its customers succeed by delivering effective and targeted communications in the right format to the right audiences at the right time. Management believes that with the Companys competitive strengths, including its broad range of complementary print related services, strong logistics capabilities, technology leadership, depth of management experience, customer relationships and economies of scale, the Company has developed and can further develop valuable, differentiated solutions for its customers. As a substitute for print, the impact of digital technologies has been felt mainly in directories, forms and statement printing, as electronic communication and transaction technology has eliminated or devalued the role of many traditional paper forms. Electronic substitution has continued to accelerate in directory printing in part driven by environmental concerns and cost pressures at key customers. Despite rapid growth in the adoption of e books, the Company does not believe there has been a significant impact on the volume of print, and management does not expect any significant reductions in the short term. However, management does expect to see lower long term growth in print book volume as e book penetration continues to expand. The future impact of technology on the Companys business is difficult to predict and could result in additional expenditures to restructure impacted operations or develop new technologies. 22 Table of Contents While new technologies present significant challenges to certain of the Companys traditional products, management believes that the Company is a leader in key technologies that, as customers continue to shift towards customized and higher valued added print, will be valuable sources of industry growth. These technologies include digital content management and premedia services, digital print for personalization and print on demand, and low cost document process management. In addition, the ability to offer compliance assurance and secure environments for print is increasingly important to customers. The Company continues to make focused investments in digital technologies in order to capitalize on these opportunities. 2010 Outlook In 2010, the Company expects net sales to increase from 2009, although the uncertain economic outlook makes the magnitude of this increase very difficult to predict. The Companys plans assume the lingering effects of the economic crisis will continue to impact 2010, resulting in a slow and uneven recovery. The Company expects a small improvement in consumer spending and the start of a gradual return to historical advertising levels by our customers. In addition, the highly competitive market conditions and increased unused industry capacity will continue to put pressure on prices for both transactional work and contract renewals. We anticipate further consolidation of printers during 2010, which may result in some reductions in industry overcapacity. We will continue to leverage the One RR Donnelley platform and powerful customer relationships in order to provide a larger share of our customers print and related needs. Given the continuing difficult market conditions, the Company expects to continue cost control initiatives through productivity initiatives and selected facility consolidations across certain platforms, and by reducing selling, general and administrative expenses, including the continued suspension of the Companys matching contribution under its 401(k) plan. Significant increases in pension and postretirement benefits expense and LIFO inventory provisions, however, will have a negative impact on operating earnings. U.S. Print and Related Services Net sales in U.S. Print and Related Services are expected to increase slightly in 2010 driven primarily by the economic recovery. Other than magazine, catalog and retail, all units are expected to increase in net sales. Magazine, catalog and retail volumes are expected to increase modestly as the economy recovers; however, these gains are likely to be more than offset by lower prices on contract renewals and new business. Increased consumer spending and government education funding are expected to increase book sales and directory volume will be enhanced by the commencement of new work under a large customer contract. For variable print, production of mailings for the US Census is projected to increase sales in 2010. In forms and labels and office products, the Company is expecting to offset the impacts of ongoing electronic substitution and continuing price declines with volume increases from new and existing customers. Commercial print sales are expected to benefit from even a modest economic recovery, with volume increases also driven by the Companys focus on integrated print management services. Net sales of logistics services are expected to increase, driven by continuing growth in mail center and commingling services, along with a rebound in freight volumes. Sales of financial print services are expected to increase, as capital markets activity rebounds from depressed levels in 2009. The overall net sales increase in U.S. Print and Related services, combined with an improved cost structure resulting from restructuring activities undertaken in 2009 and ongoing productivity efforts, is expected to result in increased operating income. International Net sales in the International segment are expected to increase from 2009 primarily driven by the global economic recovery and increased business in Asia and Global Turnkey Solutions. Net sales in business process outsourcing are expected to increase slightly as increased business activity and an expanded relationship with a long time large customer offset the sales loss due to the termination in 2009 of another major customer contract. The Company expects to broaden its product offering in Asia to drive sales growth, with continued increases in 23 Table of Contents volume due to the increased export activity as economies in Europe and the U.S. improve. The Company generally expects volumes in Latin America to increase due to the rebound in the economy. Net sales in Europe are expected to increase due to the rebound in the economy, partially offset by declines due to the pricing pressure on technology manuals and directories. A major new customer is expected to drive an increase in sales in Global Turnkey Solutions. Improvement in commercial print and forms demand is expected to increase sales in Canada. The International segment is expected to generate an increase in operating income in 2010 based on the expected net sales increase, the lower cost structure of operations in all platforms, the termination of the unprofitable business process outsourcing customer contract in 2009 and productivity initiatives. Other Pension and postretirement benefits expenses are expected to increase by approximately $43.8 million in 2010, reflecting the impact of increases in these liabilities due to lower discount rates and further recognition in operating earnings of 2008 asset losses that were initially recorded in other comprehensive income. Although the market value of securities in these plans rebounded in 2009, the Companys pension plans remain underfunded by $513.7 million as of December 31, 2009 as reported in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets and further described in Note 11, Retirement Plans, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Governmental regulations for measuring pension plan funded status differ from those required under U.S. GAAP for financial statement preparation. Based on the plans regulatory funded status as of January 1, 2009 and future years, required contributions in 2010 under all pension plans are expected to be similar to recent years at approximately $21.8 million. The Company expects that required contributions in future years will increase, and may elect to make additional non required contributions to its plans in 2010. The Companys cost of sales in 2009 was reduced by $17.6 million for reductions in LIFO inventory reserves compared to expense of $30.6 million from increases in LIFO inventory reserves in 2008. These reductions in LIFO inventory reserves resulted from deflation in certain product and commodity prices during 2009 and reductions in the Companys inventory levels driven by volume declines and working capital management initiatives. For 2010, the Company expects LIFO inventory provisions to be more consistent with historical levels, as the Companys volume and related inventory increases and the economic recovery drives higher inflation. As a result of a non recurring tax refund received in 2009 and the significant benefit of working capital reductions driven by volume declines and working capital management, the Company expects to generate lower cash flow from operating activities in 2010 compared to 2009. However, the Company expects to have sufficient cash flows from operations to maintain capital expenditures at a level consistent with 2009, further reduce debt levels through repayment of its $326 million maturity in May 2010 and maintain its quarterly dividend at current levels. Significant changes in market conditions or the consummation of one or more significant acquisitions could result in increased borrowings, reductions in capital expenditures or the dividend, or other changes to the Companys capital structure. The effective tax rate in 2010 is expected to be more reflective of the applicable statutory rates in contrast with the 2009 rate that was impacted by the non deductible, non cash $128.5 million goodwill impairment charge and the less than fully deductible charges, discounted for future cash payments, of $118.6 million for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment. Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 24 Table of Contents statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Companys most critical accounting policies are those that are most important to the portrayal of its financial condition and results of operations, and which require the Company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company has identified the following as its most critical accounting policies and judgments. Although management believes that its estimates and assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon information available when they are made. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue for the majority of its products upon the transfer of title and risk of loss, which is generally upon shipment to the customer. Contracts and customer agreements generally specify F.O.B. shipping point terms. Under agreements with certain customers, custom products may be stored by the Company for future delivery. In these situations, the Company may receive a logistics or warehouse management fee for the services it provides. In certain of these cases, delivery and billing schedules are outlined in the customer agreement and product revenue is recognized when manufacturing is complete, title and risk of loss transfer to the customer, and there is a reasonable assurance as to collectability. Because the majority of products are customized, product returns are not significant; however, the Company accrues for the estimated amount of customer credits at the time of sale. Revenue from services is recognized as services are performed. Within the Companys financial print operations, which serve the global financial services end market, the Company produces highly customized materials such as regulatory S filings, initial public offerings and EDGAR related services. Revenue is recognized for these services following final delivery of the printed product or upon completion of the service performed. Revenues related to the Companys premedia operations, which include digital content management, photography, color services and page production, are recognized in accordance with the terms of the contract, typically upon completion of the performed service and acceptance by the customer. With respect to the Companys logistics operations, whose operations include the delivery of printed material, the Company recognizes revenue upon completion of the delivery of services. Certain revenues earned by the Company require judgment to determine if revenue should be recorded gross as a principal or net of related costs as an agent. Billings for third party shipping and handling costs, primarily in the Companys logistics operations, and out of pocket expenses are recorded gross. In the Companys Global Turnkey Solutions operations, each contract is evaluated using various criteria to determine if revenue for components and other materials should be recognized on a gross or net basis. In general, these revenues are recognized on a gross basis if the Company has control over selecting vendors and pricing, is the primary obligor in the arrangement, bears all credit risk and bears the risk of loss for inventory in its possession. Revenue from contracts that do not meet these criteria is recognized on a net basis. Many of the Companys operations process materials, primarily paper, that may be supplied directly by customers or may be purchased by the Company and sold to customers. No revenue is recognized for customer supplied paper, but revenues for Company supplied paper are recognized on a gross basis. As a result, the Companys reported sales and margins may be impacted by the mix of customer supplied paper and Company supplied paper. The Company records deferred revenue in situations where amounts are invoiced but the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are not met. Such revenue is recognized when all criteria are subsequently met. Accounts Receivable The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is reviewed for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments for products and services. Specific customer provisions are made when a review of significant outstanding amounts, utilizing information about 25 Table of Contents customer creditworthiness and current economic trends, indicates that collection is doubtful. In addition, provisions are made at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable and the Companys historical collection experience. The Companys estimates of the recoverability of accounts receivable could change, and additional changes to the allowance could be necessary in the future if a major customers creditworthiness deteriorates, or if actual defaults are higher than the Companys historical experience. Inventories The Company records inventories at the lower of cost or market value. Most of the Companys inventories are valued under the last in first out (LIFO) basis. Changes in inflation indices may cause an increase or decrease in the value of inventories accounted for under the LIFO costing method. The Company maintains inventory allowances for excess and obsolete inventories determined in part by future demand forecasts. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for its products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and customer requirements, the Company could be required to increase its inventory allowances. Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets The Companys methodology for allocating the purchase price of acquisitions is based on established valuation techniques that reflect the consideration of a number of factors including valuations performed by third party appraisers when appropriate. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the fair value assigned to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Based on its organization structure, the Company has identified fifteen reporting units for which cash flows are determinable and to which goodwill is allocated. Goodwill is either assigned to a specific reporting unit or allocated between reporting units based on the relative excess fair value of each reporting unit. When the Companys organization structure changes, new or revised reporting units may be identified, and goodwill is reallocated, if necessary, based on relative excess fair value. The Company performs its annual goodwill impairment tests as of October 31, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. A two step method is used for determining goodwill impairment. In the first step, the Company compares the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair value, step two is completed to determine the amount of the impairment loss. Step two requires the allocation of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to the assets, including any unrecognized intangible assets, and liabilities in a hypothetical purchase price allocation. Any remaining unallocated fair value represents the implied fair value of goodwill, which is compared to the corresponding carrying value of goodwill to compute the goodwill impairment amount. In 2009, the Company recorded a total non cash charge of approximately $128.5 million to reflect impairment of goodwill in the following reporting units; $93.8 million for forms and labels and $34.7 million for Canada. As part of its annual impairment analysis for each reporting unit, the Company engaged a third party appraisal firm to assist the Company in its determination of the estimated fair value of each unit. This determination included estimating the fair value using both the income and market approaches. The income approach requires management to estimate a number of factors for each reporting unit, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, discount rates, and the allocation of shared or corporate items. The market approach estimates fair value using comparable marketplace fair value data from within a comparable industry grouping. In most cases, the Company weighted both the income and market approach equally to estimate the concluded fair value of each reporting unit. The determination of the fair value of the reporting units and the allocation of that value to individual assets and liabilities within those reporting units requires the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to: the selection of appropriate peer group companies; control premiums appropriate for acquisitions in the industries in which the Company competes; the 26 Table of Contents discount rate; terminal growth rates; and forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges and capital expenditures. The allocation requires several analyses to determine fair value of assets and liabilities including, among others, trade names, customer relationships, and property, plant and equipment (valued at replacement costs). Although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, actual financial results could differ from those estimates due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making such estimates. Changes in assumptions concerning future financial results or other underlying assumptions could have a significant impact on either the fair value of the reporting units, the amount of the goodwill impairment charge, or both. Future declines in the overall market value of the Companys equity and debt securities may also result in a conclusion that the fair value of one or more reporting units has declined below its carrying value. One measure of the sensitivity of the amount of goodwill impairment charges to key assumptions is the amount by which each reporting unit passed (fair value exceeds the carrying amount) or failed (the carrying amount exceeds fair value) the first step of the goodwill impairment test. For the thirteen units that passed step one, fair value exceeded the carrying amount by between 6% to 196% of their respective estimated fair values. The fair values for the magazines, catalogs and retail inserts, commercial and Europe reporting units each exceeded their carrying amounts by less than 10%. Goodwill allocated to the magazines, catalogs and retail inserts, commercial and Europe reporting units was $381.1 million, $178.6 million and $50.0 million, respectively, at October 31, 2009. For each of these reporting units, relatively small changes in the Companys key assumptions may have resulted in the recognition of significant goodwill impairment charges. For the forms and labels and Canada reporting units that failed, the carrying amount exceeded fair value by 6% and 38%, respectively, of their respective estimated fair values. For the forms and labels reporting unit, relatively small changes in certain key assumptions would have resulted in no impairment of goodwill. Generally, changes in estimates of expected future cash flows would have a similar effect on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. That is, a 1% change in estimated future cash flows would decrease the estimated fair value of the reporting unit by approximately 1%. The estimated long term rate of net sales growth can have a significant impact on the estimated future cash flows, and therefore, the fair value of each reporting unit. For the magazines, catalogs and retail inserts and commercial reporting units, a 1% decrease in the long term net sales growth rate would have resulted in the reporting units failing the first step of the goodwill impairment test. For the Europe reporting unit, a 1% decrease in the assumed long term net sales growth rate would not have changed the result of the step one test. Of the other key assumptions that impact the estimated fair values, most reporting units have the greatest sensitivity to changes in the estimated discount rate. The discount rate for each reporting unit in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment was estimated to be 9.5% as of October 31, 2009. Estimated discount rates for units in the International segment ranged from 9.0% to 14.0%. A 1.0 percentage point increase in estimated discount rates would have resulted in the magazines, catalogs and retail inserts and commercial reporting units failing step one. The Company believes that its estimates of future cash flows and discount rates are reasonable, but future changes in the underlying assumptions could differ due to the inherent uncertainty in making such estimates. Additionally, further price deterioration on contract renewals and new business along with lost or reduced volume could have a significant impact on the fair value for these reporting units. The Company evaluates the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and certain identifiable intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company performs impairment tests of indefinite lived intangible assets on an annual basis or more frequently in certain circumstances. Factors considered important which could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the assets or the strategy for the overall business, a significant decrease in the market value of the assets or significant negative industry or economic trends. When the Company determines that the carrying amount of long lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the indicators, the assets are assessed for impairment based on the estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recorded for the excess of the assets carrying amount over its fair value. 27 Table of Contents Commitments and Contingencies The Company is subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to environmental, employment and other matters, as well as preference claims related to amounts received from customers and others prior to their seeking bankruptcy protection. Periodically, the Company reviews the status of each significant matter and assesses potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the related liability is estimable, the Company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the Company reassesses the potential liability related to pending claims and may revise its estimates. The Company purchases third party insurance for workers compensation, automobile and general liability claims that exceed a certain level. The Company is responsible for the payment of claims below these insured limits, and consulting actuaries are utilized to assist the Company in estimating the obligation associated with incurred losses, which are recorded in accrued liabilities and other non current liabilities. Historical loss development factors for both the Company and the industry are utilized to project the future development of incurred losses, and these amounts are adjusted based upon actual claims experience and settlement. If actual experience of claims development is significantly different from these estimates, an adjustment in future periods may be required. Restructuring The Company records restructuring charges when liabilities are incurred as part of a plan approved by management with the appropriate level of authority, for the elimination of duplicative functions, the closure of facilities, or the exit of a line of business, generally in order to reduce the Companys overall cost structure. The restructuring liabilities might change in future periods based on several factors that could differ from original estimates and assumptions. These include, but are not limited to: contract settlements on terms different than originally expected; ability to sublease properties based on market conditions at rates or on timelines different than originally estimated; or changes to original plans as a result of mergers or acquisitions. Such changes might result in reversals of or additions to restructuring charges that could affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations of future periods. Accounting for Income Taxes Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Additionally, the Companys tax returns are subject to audit by various U.S. and foreign tax authorities. The Company recognizes a tax position in its financial statements when it is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that the position would be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. This recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 reflect these tax positions. Although management believes that its estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of uncertain tax positions may be materially different from that which is reflected in the Companys historical financial statements. The Company has recorded deferred tax assets related to domestic and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards. The Company evaluates these deferred tax assets by tax jurisdiction. The utilization of these tax assets is limited by the amount of taxable income expected to be generated within the allowable carryforward period, and other factors. Accordingly, management has provided a valuation allowance to reduce certain of these deferred tax assets when management has concluded that, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. If actual results differ from these 28 Table of Contents estimates, or the estimates are adjusted in future periods, adjustments to the valuation allowance might need to be recorded. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, valuation allowances of $277.5 million and $224.7 million, respectively, were recorded. Share Based Compensation The Company recognizes share based compensation expense based on estimated fair values for all share based awards made to employees and directors, including stock options, restricted stock units and performance share units. The Company recognizes compensation expense for share based awards expected to vest on a straight line basis over the requisite service period of the award based on their grant date fair value. The amount of expense recognized for these awards is determined by the Companys estimates of several factors, including future forfeitures of awards, expected volatility of the Companys stock, and the average life of options prior to expiration. See Note 17, Stock and Incentive Programs for Employees, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans The Company records annual amounts relating to its pension and postretirement benefit plans based on calculations which include various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, assumed rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. The Company reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and modifies the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is appropriate to do so. The effects of modifications are recognized immediately on the balance sheet, but are generally amortized into operating earnings over future periods, with the deferred amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company believes that the assumptions utilized in recording its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on its experience, market conditions and input from its actuaries and investment advisors. The Company determines its assumption for the discount rate to be used for purposes of computing annual service and interest costs based on an index of high quality corporate bond yields and matched funding yield curve analysis as of that date. The discount rates for pension benefits at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were 6.0% and 6.8%, respectively. The discount rates for postretirement benefits at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were 5.7% and 6.9%, respectively. A one percentage point decrease in the discount rates at December 31, 2009 would increase the pension plans accumulated benefit obligation and projected benefit obligation by approximately $433.6 million and $448.6 million, respectively. A one percentage point decrease in the discount rates at December 31, 2009 would increase the postretirement plans accumulated benefit obligation by approximately $46.0 million. The Company employs a total return investment approach for its pension and postretirement benefit plans whereby a mix of equities and fixed income investments are used to maximize the long term return of pension and postretirement plan assets. The intent of this strategy is to minimize plan contributions by outperforming the growth in plan liabilities over the long run. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status, and corporate financial condition. The investment portfolios contain a diversified blend of equity and fixed income investments. Furthermore, equity investments are diversified across geography and market capitalization through investments in U.S. large capitalization stocks, U.S. small capitalization stocks and international securities. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through annual liability measurements, periodic asset/liability studies and quarterly investment portfolio reviews. The expected long term rate of return for plan assets is based upon many factors including expected asset allocations, historical asset returns, current and expected future market conditions and risk. The prospective target asset allocation percentage for both the pension and postretirement benefit plans is approximately 75% for equity and other securities and approximately 25% for fixed income. The expected return on plan assets assumption at December 31, 2009 ranged from 7.5% to 8.5% for the Companys major U.S. and Canadian pension plans and was 7.6% for the Companys partially funded U.S. postretirement medical benefit plans. 29 Table of Contents The Company also maintains several pension plans in other international locations. The assets, liabilities and expense associated with these plans are not material to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The expected returns on plan assets and discount rates for these plans are determined based on each plans investment approach, local interest rates and plan participant profiles. The health care cost trend rates used in valuing the Companys postretirement benefit obligations are established based upon actual health care cost trends and consultation with actuaries and benefit providers. At December 31, 2009, the current weighted average health care trend rate assumption for the major U.S. postretirement plans was 6.8% for both pre age and post age 65 participants. The current trend rate gradually decreases to an ultimate trend rate of 6.0%. The current weighted average health care trend rate assumption for the Canada postretirement plan was 9.0% for both pre age and post age 65 participants, gradually decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 5.5%. A one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): Postretirement benefit obligation $ 6.2 Total postretirement benefit service and interest cost components net 0.5 A one percentage point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): Postretirement benefit obligation $ (5.6 ) Total postretirement benefit service and interest cost components net (0.5 ) Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than non cancelable operating lease commitments, the Company does not have off balance sheet arrangements, financings, or special purpose entities. Financial Review In the financial review that follows, the Company discusses its consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and certain other information. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and related notes that begin on page F 1. 30 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008 The following table shows the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, which reflects the results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates: 2009 2008 $ Change % Change (in millions) Net sales $ 9,857.4 $ 11,581.6 $ (1,724.2 ) (14.9 %) Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 7,462.9 8,576.3 (1,113.4 ) (13.0 %) Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 1,088.5 1,220.5 (132.0 ) (10.8 %) Restructuring and impairment charges 382.7 1,184.7 (802.0 ) (67.7 %) Depreciation and amortization 579.0 640.6 (61.6 ) (9.6 %) Total operating expenses 9,513.1 11,622.1 (2,109.0 ) (18.1 %) Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 344.3 $ (40.5 ) $ 384.8 950.1 % Consolidated Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $1,724.2 million, or 14.9%, to $9,857.4 million versus the prior year. Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased net sales by $201.1 million, or 1.7%, while the acquisitions of PROSA and Pro Line increased net sales by $36.2 million, or 0.3%. The remaining decreases were primarily attributable to significant volume declines and continued price pressure across most products and services as customer demand decreased primarily due to the global economic slowdown. Cost of sales decreased $1,113.4 million to $7,462.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 versus the prior year, primarily due to volume decreases and a benefit resulting from lower LIFO inventory provisions, offset by lower pricing on by product sales and higher incentive compensation expense. Cost of sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales increased from 74.1% to 75.7%, reflecting the impact of price pressures on net sales, volume declines, lower pricing on by products sales and higher incentive compensation expense, offset in part by the benefits of continued productivity efforts and lower LIFO inventory provisions. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $132.0 million to $1,088.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 versus the prior year due to restructuring driven cost reductions, lower sales commissions based on reduced volume, decreased bad debt expenses, the elimination of the Companys 401(k) match and changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by higher incentive compensation expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated net sales increased from 10.5% to 11.0%, reflecting the impact of the net sales decline and higher incentive compensation expense, which more than offset the benefit of productivity efforts. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recorded a net restructuring and impairment provision of $382.7 million compared to $1,184.7 million in 2008. In 2009, these charges included a non cash pre tax charge of $128.5 million for the impairment of goodwill and $118.6 million, discounted for future cash payments, for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, which allowed the Company to withdraw from certain unprofitable operations in this area. In addition, these charges included $78.8 million for workforce reductions of 4,043 employees (of whom 3,779 were terminated as of December 31, 2009) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations. These actions also included the closings of two catalog, magazine and retail insert manufacturing facilities, two book manufacturing facilities and one premedia facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the closing of one Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facility, one business process outsourcing facility, one Latin America manufacturing facility and one European 31 Table of Contents manufacturing facility within the International segment. Additionally, the Company recorded $24.7 million of impairment charges for other long lived assets and $32.1 million of other restructuring costs, including lease termination and other facility closure costs. For the year ended December 31, 2008, these charges included non cash, pre tax charges of $1,125.4 million for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and $44.1 million for workforce reductions of 2,245 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2009) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities. These actions included the realignment and consolidation of the Canadian organization, management reorganization within Latin America, the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities within the International segment and the realignment and consolidation of the financial print organization in the U.S. Print and Related Services and International segments. In addition, the Company recorded $4.6 million of impairment charges of other long lived assets and $10.6 million of other restructuring costs, mainly related to lease terminations in exited facilities. Depreciation and amortization decreased $61.6 million to $579.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to reduced capital expenditures and the reduced balance of amortizable intangible assets resulting from the impairment of customer relationship intangible assets in the business process outsourcing unit in 2008. Changes in foreign exchange rates also caused the lower depreciation and amortization expense. Depreciation and amortization included $99.1 million and $123.3 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, patents, trade names, licenses and non compete agreements for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $344.3 million compared to a loss from continuing operations of $40.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in earnings was primarily driven by the higher non cash impairment charges recorded in 2008, as well as the cost savings achieved from restructuring activities and productivity efforts, a benefit resulting from lower LIFO inventory provisions due to reduced inventory levels and lower inventory and commodity prices, decreased bad debt expenses and lower intangible amortization expense, partially offset by the lower net sales primarily driven by the global economic slowdown, higher incentive compensation expense and lower pricing on by products sales. Net interest expense increased by $8.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 versus the prior year, primarily due to the issuance of $400 million of 11.25% senior notes and $350 million of 8.60% senior notes on January 14, 2009 and August 26, 2009, respectively, as well as the accelerated amortization of debt issuance costs and unamortized discounts related to the repurchase of $640.6 million of senior notes maturing in 2012 and 2010 and lower international interest income as a result of lower interest rates, partially offset by lower average short term borrowings. Net investment and other expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $16.6 million and $2.4 million, respectively. In 2009, the Companys repurchases of $640.6 million of its senior notes maturing in 2012 and 2010 resulted in a loss on the debt extinguishment of $10.3 million. In addition, as a result of the repurchase of the senior notes due May 15, 2010, the Company reclassified a loss of $2.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to investment and other expense due to changes in the hedged forecasted interest payments. Additionally, the Company recorded a $2.4 million write down on its affordable housing investments. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company terminated its cross currency swaps, which resulted in a loss of $9.9 million. In addition, the Company sold an equity investment in Latin America, which resulted in a gain of $4.9 million. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 was a provision of 123.0% compared to a benefit of 31.2% in 2008. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 was impacted by the non deductible, non cash goodwill impairment charge of $128.5 million and the partially deductible charges, discounted for future cash payments, of $118.6 million for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment. The 2008 effective 32 Table of Contents income tax rate was impacted by the non deductible goodwill impairment charge of $800.1 million and by tax benefits of $228.8 million related to the decline in value and reorganization of certain entities within the International segment and related tax benefits realized upon the reorganization of certain foreign entities therein and the benefit of $38.0 million from the recognition of uncertain tax positions upon final settlement of certain U.S. federal income tax audits for the years 2000 2002. Net loss from continuing operations attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $27.3 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, compared to $191.7 million, or $0.91 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition to the factors described above, the per share results reflect a decrease in weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 5.0 million, primarily resulting from the Companys repurchase of 10.0 million shares of its common stock in 2008. U.S. Print and Related Services The following tables summarize net sales, income from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Net sales $ 7,437.0 $ 8,704.2 Income from continuing operations 489.2 708.9 Operating margin 6.6 % 8.1 % Restructuring and impairment charges 163.8 405.8 Reporting unit(1) 2009Net Sales 2008Net Sales $ Change % Change (in millions) Magazines, catalogs and retail inserts $ 2,053.6 $ 2,527.1 $ (473.5 ) (18.7 %) Books and directories 1,462.1 1,764.5 (302.4 ) (17.1 %) Variable print 1,142.8 1,254.2 (111.4 ) (8.9 %) Forms and labels 829.5 908.2 (78.7 ) (8.7 %) Commercial 592.1 706.4 (114.3 ) (16.2 %) Logistics 491.0 573.1 (82.1 ) (14.3 %) Financial print 482.5 528.0 (45.5 ) (8.6 %) Office products 228.7 270.5 (41.8 ) (15.5 %) Premedia 154.7 172.2 (17.5 ) (10.2 %) Total U.S. Print and Related Services $ 7,437.0 $ 8,704.2 $ (1,267.2 ) (14.6 %) (1) The amounts included in the above table represent net sales by reporting unit and the descriptions above reflect the primary products or services provided by each. Included in these net sales amounts are sales of other products that may be produced within a reporting unit to meet customer needs and improve operating efficiency. Certain prior year amounts were restated to conform to the Companys current reporting unit structure. Net sales for the U.S. Print and Related Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $7,437.0 million, a decrease of $1,267.2 million, or 14.6%, compared to 2008. The acquisition of Pro Line increased net sales $17.5 million, or 0.2%. The increase due to the acquisition was more than offset by volume and price declines across all products and services primarily due to the global economic slowdown. Sales of magazines, catalogs and retail inserts decreased due to lower page counts resulting from reduced advertising spending, lower circulation volume and price pressure on new and existing customer contracts. Sales of books and directories decreased due to lower volume in educational books, related materials and directories. Sales of variable printing decreased due to an unfavorable shift in product mix, lower sales of direct mailings from 33 Table of Contents financial service companies and retail customers and reduced fulfillment and distribution volume from healthcare customers. Sales of forms and labels decreased due to lower volume from major customers and increased price pressure. Commercial printing sales decreased due to lower volume as a result of the economic slowdown and increased price pressure. Sales of financial printing decreased compared to the prior year due to reductions in the size and number of capital market transactions and increased price pressure. Sales of logistics services decreased primarily due to lower print volumes and reductions in fuel surcharges. Sales of office products decreased primarily due to lower volume from large retail customers. Finally, sales of premedia declined due to lower volume from existing customers for print related products. U.S. Print and Related Services segment income from continuing operations decreased $219.7 million mainly because of the volume and price declines discussed above, lower pricing on by products sales and higher incentive compensation expense, partially offset by lower restructuring and impairment charges, operating cost reductions driven by the restructuring actions and productivity initiatives. Operating margins in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment decreased from 8.1% for the year ended December 31, 2008 to 6.6% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The margin declines resulted from the impact of volume declines, price pressures, lower pricing on by products sales and higher incentive compensation expense, partially offset by lower restructuring and impairment charges and cost savings, as discussed above. International The following tables summarize net sales, income (loss) from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability within the International segment: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Net sales $ 2,420.4 $ 2,877.4 Income (loss) from continuing operations (36.0 ) (564.6 ) Operating margin (1.5 %) (19.6 %) Restructuring and impairment charges 210.7 774.7 Reporting unit 2009Net Sales 2008Net Sales $ Change % Change (in millions) Business process outsourcing $ 603.3 $ 734.0 $ (130.7 ) (17.8 %) Latin America 467.9 485.2 (17.3 ) (3.6 %) Asia 436.2 473.0 (36.8 ) (7.8 %) Europe 388.7 498.0 (109.3 ) (21.9 %) Global Turnkey Solutions 321.6 455.0 (133.4 ) (29.3 %) Canada 202.7 232.2 (29.5 ) (12.7 %) Total International $ 2,420.4 $ 2,877.4 $ (457.0 ) (15.9 %) Net sales for the International segment for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $2,420.4 million, a decrease of $457.0 million, or 15.9%, compared to 2008. The decrease in net sales was primarily due to changes in foreign exchange rates of $201.1 million, or 7.0%, and volume and price declines resulting from the global economic slowdown. Business process outsourcing net sales decreased due to changes in foreign exchange rates, as well as lower volume in transactional print and mail and design and print management services. In Latin America, net sales decreased due to changes in foreign exchange rates and lower sales of forms, partially offset by the acquisition of PROSA which increased net sales by $18.7 million, or 3.9%. Sales in Asia decreased due to reduced export book sales and lower volumes and prices on print packaging products. Net sales in Europe decreased due to changes in foreign exchange rates and lower sales of directories and commercial print, as well as unfavorable product mix changes and declining prices, largely related to technology manuals and other related 34 Table of Contents packaging products. Global Turnkey Solutions net sales decreased due to lower volume from retail and technology customers, as the economic slowdown impacted both consumer and business spending on their products, as well as changes in foreign exchange rates. The decrease in net sales in Canada was due to changes in foreign exchange rates and lower sales of forms and labels, statement printing and commercial print products. Loss from continuing operations decreased $528.6 million primarily due to lower restructuring and impairment charges, partially offset by volume declines, the ongoing impact of competitive price pressures, unfavorable product mix and higher incentive compensation expense, partially offset by lower intangible amortization expense. Operating margins as a percentage of sales increased from (19.6%) for the year ended December 31, 2008 to (1.5%) for the year ended December 31, 2009. Of this margin change, 19.6 percentage points were attributable to the impact of lower restructuring and impairment charges. In addition, the margin increase was due to cost reductions driven by restructuring actions and productivity improvements, partially offset by volume and price declines. Corporate The following table summarizes unallocated operating expenses and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as Corporate: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating expenses $ 108.9 $ 184.8 Restructuring and impairment charges 8.2 4.2 Corporate operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $108.9 million, a decrease of $75.9 million compared to 2008. The decrease was primarily driven by a benefit resulting from the reduction in the LIFO inventory reserve of $17.6 million in 2009 as compared to an expense of $30.6 million in 2008, the elimination of the Companys 401(k) match and cost reductions from productivity and restructuring actions, partially offset by higher incentive compensation expense and higher restructuring and impairment charges. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007 (in millions, except per share data) Income (Loss)fromContinuingOperations OperatingMargin Net Earnings(Loss) Attributableto RR DonnelleyCommonShareholders Net Earnings (Loss)Attributable to RRDonnelley CommonShareholders PerDiluted Share For the year ended December 31, 2007 $ 315.1 2.7 % $ (48.9 ) $ (0.22 ) 2008 restructuring and impairment charges (1,184.7 ) (10.2 %) (1,073.9 ) (5.11 ) 2007 restructuring and impairment charges 839.0 7.2 % 702.9 3.22 Loss on termination of cross currency swaps (1.8 ) (0.01 ) Non recurring tax benefits net 257.5 1.23 Discontinued operations 2.3 0.01 Operations (9.9 ) 0.0 % (28.0 ) (0.02 ) For the year ended December 31, 2008 $ (40.5 ) (0.3 %) $ (189.9 ) $ (0.90 ) 2008 pre tax restructuring and impairment charges: included $1,125.4 million of non cash charges for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; charges of $44.1 million for employee termination costs, substantially all of which were associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities; $10.6 million of other restructuring costs, primarily lease termination costs; and $4.6 million for impairment of other long lived assets. 35 Table of Contents 2007 pre tax restructuring and impairment charges: included $752.2 million of non cash charges for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; charges of $49.3 million for employee termination costs, substantially all of which were associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities; $11.1 million of other restructuring costs, including lease termination costs; and $26.4 million for impairment of other long lived assets. Pre tax loss on termination of cross currency swaps: Investment and other income (expense) included a $9.9 million ($1.8 million after tax) loss in 2008 resulting from the Companys termination of its cross currency swaps. Non recurring tax benefits: reflected tax benefits of $228.8 million realized in 2008 related to the decline in value and reorganization of certain entities within the International segment, as well as a benefit of $38.0 million in 2008 from the recognition of uncertain tax positions upon the final settlement of certain U.S. federal tax audits for the years 2000 2002 and a benefit of $9.3 million in 2007 from a reduction in net deferred tax liabilities due to a decrease in the statutory tax rate in the United Kingdom. Operations: reflected lower net sales driven by the global economic slowdown, partially offset by cost savings from restructuring actions, productivity efforts and lower incentive compensation expense and the impact of the Von Hoffmann, Banta, Perry Judds, Cardinal Brands and Pro Line acquisitions. See further details in the review of operating results by segment that follows below. The following table shows the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, which reflects the results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates. 2008 2007 $ Change % Change (in millions) Net sales $ 11,581.6 $ 11,587.1 $ (5.5 ) 0.0 % Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 8,576.3 8,532.4 43.9 0.5 % Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 1,220.5 1,302.3 (81.8 ) (6.3 %) Restructuring and impairment charges 1,184.7 839.0 345.7 41.2 % Depreciation and amortization 640.6 598.3 42.3 7.1 % Total operating expenses 11,622.1 11,272.0 350.1 3.1 % Income (loss) from continuing operations $ (40.5 ) $ 315.1 $ (355.6 ) (112.9 %) Consolidated Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 decreased $5.5 million to $11,581.6 million versus the prior year. Net sales increased $412.4 million, or 3.6%, due to the acquisitions of Banta, Perry Judds, Von Hoffman, Cardinal Brands and Pro Line and $33.0 million, or 0.3%, from changes in foreign exchange rates. These increases were more than offset by volume and price declines across most products and services as customer demand decreased due to the global economic slowdown. Cost of sales increased $43.9 million to $8,576.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 versus the prior year, primarily due to acquisitions, changes in foreign exchange rates and increased LIFO provisions, offset by lower incentive compensation expense and increased productivity. Cost of sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales increased from 73.6% to 74.1%, reflecting the impact of cost inflation and price pressures on net sales, partially offset by lower incentive compensation and improved productivity. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $81.8 million to $1,220.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 versus the prior year, primarily due to lower incentive compensation expense, partially offset by acquisitions and a higher provision for doubtful accounts receivable. Selling, general and administrative 36 Table of Contents expenses as a percentage of consolidated net sales decreased from 11.2% to 10.5%, which reflected lower incentive compensation expense and the reduction of costs through improved productivity and restructuring activities. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recorded a net restructuring and impairment provision of $1,184.7 million compared to $839.0 million in 2007. In 2008, these charges included non cash, pre tax charges of $1,125.4 million for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and $44.1 million for workforce reductions of 2,245 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2009) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities. These actions included the realignment and consolidation of the Canadian organization, management reorganization within Latin America, the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities within the International segment and the realignment and consolidation of the financial print organization in the U.S. Print and Related Services and International segments. In addition, the Company recorded $4.6 million of impairment charges of other long lived assets and $10.6 million of other restructuring costs, mainly related to lease terminations in exited facilities. For the year ended December 31, 2007, these charges included $436.1 million for the impairment of goodwill for the business process outsourcing operations and a non cash pre tax charge of $316.1 million reflecting the write off of the Moore Wallace, OfficeTiger and other trade names, most of which were indefinite lived. In addition, these charges included $49.3 million for workforce reductions of 1,169 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2009) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities. These actions included management changes to simplify the management reporting structure and cost structure reductions including the closing of two manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and two facilities within the International segment. Further, these charges included $11.1 million of other restructuring costs primarily related to lease terminations in exited facilities and $26.4 million for the impairment of other long lived assets, of which $19.1 million related to the write off of capitalized customer contract set up costs in the business process outsourcing unit. Management believes that certain restructuring activities will continue in 2009, as the Company continues to streamline its manufacturing, sales and administrative operations. Depreciation and amortization increased $42.3 million to $640.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to acquisitions and capital expenditures. Depreciation and amortization included $123.3 million and $119.7 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, trade names and patents for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $40.5 million compared to income from continuing operations of $315.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in earnings was primarily driven by the increase in non cash impairment charges. The lower earnings also reflect the decline in volumes and cost inflation and price pressures across both segments, partially offset by acquisitions, productivity efforts, lower incentive compensation and the benefits achieved from procurement savings and restructuring activities. Net interest expense decreased by $0.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 versus 2007, primarily due to higher interest income earned on cash balances invested internationally, partially offset by higher interest expense in the U.S. due to increased short term debt. Net investment and other income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 was expense of $2.4 million and income of $3.6 million, respectively. In 2008, the Company terminated its cross currency swaps, which resulted in a loss of $9.9 million. In addition, the Company sold an equity investment in Latin America, which resulted in a gain of $4.9 million. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company recorded a gain of $1.1 million for the changes in fair value of the portion of derivative financial instruments that was ineffective as a net investment hedge. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 was a benefit of 31.2% compared to a provision of 149.3% in 2007. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 was impacted 37 Table of Contents by the non deductible goodwill impairment charge of $800.1 million and by tax benefits of $228.8 million related to the decline in value and reorganization of certain entities within the International segment and related tax benefits realized upon the reorganization of certain foreign entities therein and the benefit of $38.0 million from the recognition of uncertain tax positions upon final settlement of certain U.S. federal income tax audits for the years 2000 2002. The 2007 effective tax rate included the impact of the non deductible goodwill impairment charge of $436.1 million, tax benefits of $107.0 million associated with the $316.1 million charge for the write off of the Moore Wallace, OfficeTiger and other trade names, the enactment of a lower statutory tax rate in the United Kingdom, an increased benefit from the domestic manufacturing deduction and the impact of the increased proportion of the Companys taxable income derived from lower tax jurisdictions. The net loss from continuing operations attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $191.7 million, or $0.91 per diluted share, compared to $48.4 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2007. In addition to the factors described above, the per share results reflect a decrease in weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 7.8 million, primarily resulting from the Companys repurchase of 10.0 million shares of its common stock in 2008. U.S. Print and Related Services The following tables summarize net sales, income from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability, which reflect the results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates, within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Net sales $ 8,704.2 $ 8,601.9 Income from continuing operations 708.9 823.8 Operating margin 8.1 % 9.6 % Restructuring and impairment charges 405.8 285.1 Reporting unit(1) 2008Net Sales 2007Net Sales $ Change % Change (in millions) Magazines catalogs and retail inserts $ 2,527.1 $ 2,514.2 $ 12.9 0.5 % Books and directories 1,764.5 1,771.5 (7.0 ) (0.4 %) Variable print 1,254.2 1,272.8 (18.6 ) (1.5 %) Forms and labels 908.2 952.4 (44.2 ) (4.6 %) Commercial 706.4 767.7 (61.3 ) (8.0 %) Logistics 573.1 489.3 83.8 17.1 % Financial print 528.0 560.1 (32.1 ) (5.7 %) Office products 270.5 107.7 162.8 151.2 % Premedia 172.2 166.2 6.0 3.6 % Total U.S. Print and Related Services $ 8,704.2 $ 8,601.9 $ 102.3 1.2 % (1) The amounts included in the above table represent net sales by reporting unit and the descriptions above reflect the primary products or services provided by each. Included in these net sales amounts are sales of other products that may be produced within a reporting unit to meet customer needs and improve operating efficiency. Certain prior year amounts were restated to conform to the Companys current reporting unit structure. Net sales for the U.S. Print and Related Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2008 were $8,704.2 million, an increase of $102.3 million, or 1.2%, compared to 2007. Sales from the acquired facilities of Banta, Perry Judds, Von Hoffmann, Cardinal Brands and Pro Line increased sales by $399.3 million, or 4.6%. 38 Table of Contents The increases due to acquisitions were offset by volume and price declines across most products and services due to the economic crisis that worsened in the second half of 2008. Sales of magazines, catalogs and retail inserts increased slightly due to acquisitions and new catalog customers, partially offset by lower volume resulting from reduced advertising spending and lower volume from existing customers. Sales of books and directories decreased slightly as the impact of acquisitions was more than offset by the impact of lower prices from major customer contract renewals and reduced volume in sales of directories. Sales of variable printing products decreased due to lower direct mail sales and reduced fulfillment and distribution volume. Sales of forms and labels decreased due to lower sales of forms, resulting from increased price pressure and lower demand for consumable forms products. Commercial printing sales decreased due to the economic slowdown. Sales of logistics services increased primarily due to higher fuel surcharges. Sales of financial printing decreased due to decreases in the size and number of capital market transactions. Sales of office products increased due to an acquisition. Finally, sales of premedia grew slightly due to acquisitions and increased volume from new customers. U.S. Print and Related Services income from continuing operations decreased $114.9 million mainly driven by the increase in restructuring and impairment charges of $120.7 million. In addition, the benefits of acquisitions, lower incentive compensation expense and improved productivity were partially offset by the volume declines and competitive price pressures discussed above. Operating margins in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment decreased from 9.6% to 8.1% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Of the margin decrease, 1.4 percentage points were attributable to higher restructuring and impairment charges. In addition, lower employee incentive compensation expense and continued productivity efforts largely offset the impact of reduced volume, price pressure and cost inflation. International The following tables summarize net sales, loss from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability within the International segment: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Net sales $ 2,877.4 $ 2,985.2 Loss from continuing operations (564.6 ) (315.0 ) Operating margin (19.6 %) (10.6 %) Restructuring and impairment charges 774.7 538.7 Reporting unit 2008Net Sales 2007Net Sales $ Change % Change (in millions) Business process outsourcing $ 734.0 $ 809.7 $ (75.7 ) (9.3 %) Europe 498.0 572.7 (74.7 ) (13.0 %) Latin America 485.2 436.8 48.4 11.1 % Asia 473.0 457.5 15.5 3.4 % Global Turnkey Solutions 455.0 468.5 (13.5 ) (2.9 %) Canada 232.2 240.0 (7.8 ) (3.3 %) Total International $ 2,877.4 $ 2,985.2 $ (107.8 ) (3.6 %) Net sales for the International segment for the year ended December 31, 2008 were $2,877.4 million, a decrease of $107.8 million, or 3.6%, compared to 2007. Although net sales increased approximately $33.0 million, or 1.1%, due to the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates and $13.1 million, or 0.4%, due to acquisitions, these increases were more than offset by volume and price declines resulting from the global economic slowdown. Foreign exchange rates favorably impacted each reporting unit for the first nine months of 39 Table of Contents 2008, but had a significant unfavorable impact during the last three months of 2008. Volume increases in Latin America and Asia were more than offset by declines in the technology and telecommunications products in Europe, lower volume in print and media and outsourcing services within business process outsourcing and the impact of ongoing price pressures. Business process outsourcing net sales decreased due to lower volume and lost customers in print and media and outsourcing services, partially offset by volume growth driven by the full year impact of a large new customer contract entered into during the second quarter of 2007. Net sales in Europe decreased due to volume declines, unfavorable product mix changes and declining prices, largely related to the technology and telecommunications sector, partially offset by the impact of changes in foreign currency rates and increased commercial print product sales. In Latin America, the net sales increase was the result of changes in foreign exchange rates, combined with an increase in sales of books, forms and commercial printing. Sales in Asia increased due to foreign exchange rates and increased volume in the technology sector, partially offset by declines due to increased competition resulting in price pressure in the export book market and technology and telecommunications sectors. Global Turnkey Solutions net sales decreased slightly due to lower volume from existing customers, partially offset by changes in foreign exchange rates. The decrease in net sales in Canada was due to lower volume and price pressure on sales of forms and labels, partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange rates. The loss from continuing operations increased $249.6 million mainly due to the $236.0 million increase in restructuring and impairment charges. The impact of the net sales decline was partially offset by productivity improvement, cost control and lower incentive compensation expense. Operating margins decreased from (10.6%) to (19.6%) for the year ended December 31, 2008. Higher restructuring and impairment charges drove an 8.9 percentage point margin decrease, with the balance of the decrease attributed to the negative impact of volume and price declines. Corporate The following table summarizes unallocated operating expenses and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as Corporate: Years EndedDecember 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Operating expenses $ 184.8 $ 193.7 Restructuring and impairment charges 4.2 15.2 Corporate operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 were $184.8 million, a decrease of $8.9 million compared to 2007. The decrease was driven by decreases in employee benefit and incentive compensation costs, lower restructuring and impairment charges of $11.0 million and cost reductions from productivity efforts and restructuring actions partially offset by an increase in LIFO inventory provisions and a higher provision for doubtful accounts receivable. RESTRUCTURING, IMPAIRMENT, AND ACQUISITION RELATED CHARGES During 2009, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $382.7 million. These charges included $128.5 million for the impairment of goodwill and $24.7 million for the impairment of other long lived assets. In addition, the Company recorded charges, discounted for future cash payments, of $118.6 million for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, of which $117.2 million, $0.8 million and $0.6 million are reflected in other charges, impairment and employee terminations, respectively. Additionally, these charges included $78.8 million related to workforce reductions of 4,043 employees (3,779 of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2009), associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities. These actions included the closings of two magazine, catalog and retail 40 Table of Contents insert manufacturing facilities, two book manufacturing facilities and one premedia facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities, one business process outsourcing facility, one Latin America manufacturing facility and one European manufacturing facility within the International segment. Finally, the Company incurred other restructuring charges of $32.1 million, including lease termination and other facility closure costs. During 2008, the Company recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $1,184.7 million. These charges included $800.1 million for the impairment of goodwill, $325.3 million for the impairment of customer relationships intangible assets and $4.6 million for the impairment of other long lived assets. In addition, these charges included $44.1 million related to workforce reductions of 2,245 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2009), associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities. These actions included the realignment and consolidation of the Canadian organization, management reorganization within Latin America, the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities within the International segment and realignment and consolidation of the financial print organization in the U.S. Print and Related Services and International segments. In addition, $10.6 million of other restructuring costs, including lease terminations in exited facilities, were recorded for the year ended December 31, 2008. During 2008, the Company capitalized $2.1 million of restructuring costs related to employee terminations and other costs in connection with the acquisition of Pro Line. Costs of $1.7 million were for workforce reductions of 23 employees resulting from the elimination of duplicative administrative functions. Charges of $0.4 million of other restructuring costs included lease terminations in exited facilities. During 2007, the Company recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $839.0 million. These charges included $316.1 million for the write off of the Moore Wallace, OfficeTiger and other trade names associated with the Companys decision in June 2007 to unify most of its printing and related service offerings under the single RR Donnelley brand. Additionally, the 2007 charges included $436.1 million for the impairment of goodwill resulting from the OfficeTiger and Astron acquisitions within the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment and $26.4 million for the impairment of other long lived assets, of which $19.1 million relates to the write off of capitalized customer contract set up costs in the business process outsourcing reporting unit. In addition, these charges included $49.3 million related to workforce reductions of 1,169 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2008), associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities. These actions included management changes to simplify and consolidate the management reporting structure and cost structure reductions including the closing of two manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and two manufacturing facilities within the International segment. In addition, $11.1 million of other restructuring costs, including lease terminations in exited facilities, were recorded for the year ended December 31, 2007. Further, the Company capitalized $63.7 million of restructuring costs related to employee terminations and other costs in connection with the acquisitions of Banta, Perry Judds, Von Hoffmann, and Cardinal Brands. Costs of $55.1 million were for planned workforce reductions of 857 employees, resulting from the elimination of duplicative administrative functions and the planned closure of five operating facilities. Charges of $8.6 million of other restructuring costs included lease terminations in exited facilities. The Company made cash payments of $126.4 million, $68.9 million and $112.7 million for restructuring activities during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. $22.2 million of the $126.4 million paid in 2009 related to the terminated customer contract discussed previously. In addition, during 2009, the Company transferred $43.7 million to restricted cash within other noncurrent assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to this terminated customer contract. The $43.7 million, subject to changes in foreign exchange rates, will be paid to the customer in January 2011. Additionally, during January 2010, the Company paid $57.5 million related to this terminated customer contract. These outlays were all funded using cash generated from operations and cash on hand. 41 Table of Contents In 2010, the Company expects to realize further cost savings associated with the restructuring actions taken in 2009 and 2008, primarily through reduced employee and facility costs. The Company expects to identify further cost reduction opportunities within both current and newly acquired businesses and possibly take additional actions in 2010, which may result in significant additional restructuring charges. If these restructuring actions occur, they will be funded by cash generated from operations and cash on hand or, if necessary, the Company will fund these costs by utilizing its credit facilities. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following describes the Companys cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Cash Flows From Operating Activities 2009 compared to 2008 Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $1,425.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $1,018.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating cash inflows are largely attributable to sales of the Companys products and services. Operating cash outflows are largely attributable to recurring expenditures for raw materials, labor, rent, interest, taxes and other activities. The increase in operating cash flow reflects the extending of payment terms on accounts payable, the receipt of income tax refunds of $164.1 million, reductions in inventories and accounts receivable resulting from volume declines and a focus on improved working capital management, lower incentive compensation payments in 2009 as compared to 2008 and lower income tax payments due to decreased taxable income, partially offset by lower operating earnings driven by significant volume declines. 2008 compared to 2007 Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $1,018.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $1,181.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in operating cash flow from 2007 reflected higher interest payments from the issuance of approximately $1.25 billion of debt in January 2007 to fund a portion of the acquisitions of Banta and Perry Judds, a larger decrease in accounts payable due to the timing of vendor payments, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable and lower cash payments for income taxes. The reduction in incentive compensation expense that increased net earnings will impact net cash provided by continuing operations in 2009 as compared to 2008, as most annual incentive compensation is paid in the first quarter of the following year. Cash Flows From Investing Activities 2009 compared to 2008 Net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $260.9 million compared to $351.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Net cash used for acquisition of businesses during 2009 included $26.6 million for the acquisition of PROSA and Prospectus. For the year ended December 31, 2008, net cash used for acquisitions included $132.6 million for the acquisition of Pro Line and another smaller acquisition, offset by proceeds of $10.5 million from purchase price adjustments related to previous acquisitions. The Company received proceeds from the sale of investments and other assets of $2.2 million during 2009 compared to $53.2 million during 2008, which included $27.3 million of net proceeds from the sale of certain investment securities related to the planned liquidation of a captive insurance subsidiary. Capital expenditures were $195.0 million, a decrease of $127.9 million compared to 2008, reflecting lower spending on capacity growth due to the significant reduction in production volumes resulting from the global economic slowdown. The Company continues to fund capital expenditures primarily through cash provided by operations. The Company expects that capital expenditures for 2010 will be approximately $200 million. Finally, the Company transferred $43.7 million to restricted cash within other noncurrent assets on the Consolidated 42 Table of Contents Balance Sheets related to a customer contract termination payment in 2009 and received transfers of $40.6 million of restricted cash in 2008 primarily due to the release of excess funding from a trust associated with the Companys acquisition of Banta. 2008 compared to 2007 Net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $351.2 million compared to $2,510.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Net cash used for acquisition of businesses in the year ended December 31, 2008 included $132.6 million for the acquisitions of Pro Line and another smaller acquisition, offset by proceeds of $10.5 million from purchase price adjustments related to previous acquisitions. For the year ended December 31, 2007, net cash used for acquisitions included $2,052.4 million for the acquisitions of Banta, Perry Judds, Von Hoffmann and Cardinal Brands. The Company received proceeds from the sale of investments and other assets of $53.2 million in 2008, which included $27.3 million of net proceeds from the sale of certain investment securities related to the liquidation of a captive insurance subsidiary. The Company received transfers of $40.6 million of restricted cash in 2008, of which $31.7 million related to the release of excess funding from a trust associated with the Companys acquisition of Banta and $8.9 million was reimbursements from the same trust for payroll tax payments made by the Company. Capital expenditures were $322.9 million, a decrease of $159.1 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2007, reflecting lower spending on U.S. capacity growth due to the impact of acquisitions completed in 2007 and lower spending internationally in the Europe, Asia and business process outsourcing platforms. The Company continued to fund capital expenditures primarily through cash provided by operations. Cash Flows From Financing Activities 2009 compared to 2008 Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $1,028.0 million compared to $678.9 million in 2008. During 2009, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of $750.0 million of long term senior notes and repaid $400.0 million in senior notes that matured April 1, 2009. In addition, the Company repurchased $466.4 million and $174.2 million of senior notes maturing January 15, 2012 and May 15, 2010, respectively. Net repayments under the Companys revolving credit facility (the Facility) were $200.0 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The net change in other short term debt was a cash outflow of $305.6 million during 2009 primarily due to the pay down of commercial paper. The net change in other short term debt for the year ended December 31, 2008 was a cash inflow of $6.8 million due to borrowings under international credit facilities, partially offset by the repayment of commercial paper. Additionally, $278.8 million was utilized during the year ended December 31, 2008 to acquire 10.0 million shares of common stock under the Companys share repurchase program. 2008 compared to 2007 Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $678.9 million compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $1,471.3 million in 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company received proceeds of $1,244.2 million from an issuance of long term debt in order to fund a portion of the acquisitions of Banta and Perry Judds. In 2008, $1,275.0 million was borrowed under the Facility, while $1,475.0 million was used to pay down borrowings under the Facility. The net change in short term debt was a cash inflow of $6.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2008 due to borrowings under international credit facilities, partially offset by the repayment of commercial paper. The net change in other short term debt for the year ended December 31, 2007 was a cash inflow of $282.1 million due to borrowings under the Facility and the issuance of commercial paper related to Banta, Perry Judds and Von Hoffmann acquisitions. Additionally, $278.8 million was utilized during the year ended December 31, 2008 to acquire 10.0 million shares of common stock under the Companys share repurchase program, compared to $309.5 million to acquire approximately 7.7 million shares of common stock in 2007. In the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company received proceeds of $105.1 million for the exercise of stock options, including excess tax benefits of $9.6 million. 43 Table of Contents Other The Companys cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside of the United States. Most of the amounts held outside of the United States could be repatriated to the United States but, under current law, would be subject to additional United States federal income taxes and in some cases to local country taxes. Repatriation of some foreign balances is restricted by local laws. The Company has no plans to repatriate funds in the near future. Included in cash and cash equivalents of $499.2 million at December 31, 2009 were short term investments in the amount of $113.3 million, which primarily consist of certificate and short term deposits and money market funds. These investments are with institutions with sound credit ratings and are believed to be highly liquid. Dividends Cash dividends paid to shareholders totaled $213.6 million, $219.2 million and $226.8 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company has consistently paid a dividend since becoming a public company in 1956 and currently has no plans to cease or reduce its dividend payments in 2010. The Company believes it will continue to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to pay future dividends that may be approved by the Companys Board of Directors. On January 7, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.26 per common share, payable on March 1, 2010 to shareholders of record on January 22, 2010. Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commitments and Contingencies The following table quantifies our future contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009: Payments Due In Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter (in millions) Total debt (1) $ 4,977.4 $ 540.4 $ 194.0 $ 348.0 $ 184.2 $ 769.5 $ 2,941.3 Operating leases 625.6 137.4 108.8 84.5 66.5 53.1 175.3 Other (2) 401.1 246.0 116.3 26.0 7.0 5.5 0.3 Total as of December 31, 2009 $ 6,004.1 $ 923.8 $ 419.1 $ 458.5 $ 257.7 $ 828.1 $ 3,116.9 (1) Total debt includes $1,644.4 million of scheduled interest payments, of which the Company expects to pay $200.5 million in 2010. (2) Other represents contractual obligations for outsourced services ($215.3 million), contract termination payments ($99.0 million), purchases of property, plant and equipment ($49.5 million), restructuring related severance payments ($20.4 million) and purchases of natural gas ($12.3 million). The Company has included $4.6 million of uncertain tax liabilities that are classified as current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Excluded from the table are $171.8 million of uncertain tax liabilities, as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or timing of settlement. The Company expects to make cash contributions of approximately $21.8 million to its pension plans and approximately $10.5 million to its postretirement benefit plans in 2010, which are not reflected above. As of December 31, 2009, the Company is authorized under the terms of its share repurchase program to repurchase 10.0 million shares. Such purchases may be made from time to time and discontinued at any time. 44 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY The Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to support its ongoing operations and to invest in future growth to create value for its shareholders. Operating cash flows are the Companys primary source of liquidity and are expected to be used for, among other things, interest and principal on the Companys debt obligations, capital expenditures as necessary to support productivity improvement and growth, completion of restructuring programs, dividend payments that may be approved by the Board of Directors, additional acquisitions and future common stock or debt repurchases based upon market conditions. As further discussed below, the severe credit crisis has increased the Companys borrowing costs. Cash and cash equivalents of $499.2 million as of December 31, 2009 included $87.3 million that were readily available in the U.S. and $411.9 million that were available at international locations, most of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxes and some of which is subject to local country taxes if repatriated to the U.S. In addition, repatriation of some foreign cash is further restricted by local laws. The Company maintains a cash pooling structure that enables several participating international locations to draw on the Companys overseas cash resources to meet local liquidity needs. In addition, foreign cash balances may be loaned to U.S. operating entities on a temporary basis in order to reduce the Companys short term borrowing costs or for other purposes. The Company has a $2.0 billion committed revolving credit facility (the Facility) that can be used for general corporate purposes, including letters of credit and as a backstop for the Companys commercial paper program. The Facility is subject to a number of restrictive covenants that, in part, limit the ability of the Company to create liens on assets, engage in mergers and consolidations, or dispose of assets. The financial covenants require a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. Based on the Companys results of operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and existing term debt structure, as shown in the table below, the Company could utilize approximately $1.4 billion of the $2.0 billion Facility and not be in violation of those financial covenants. A further reduction in earnings year over year in 2010 would likely further decrease the amount available under the Facility. However, the Company does not expect the reduction in availability on the Facility to impact its ability to meet its liquidity requirements. In addition, borrowings under the Facility are subject to certain conditions, all of which were met at December 31, 2009. The Company pays an annual commitment fee of 0.10%, and LIBOR plus a spread on borrowings under the Facility. The Facility has a maturity date of January 6, 2012. As of December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Facility. The Company also has $138.7 million in credit facilities outside of the U.S., most of which are uncommitted. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had $44.1 million in outstanding letters of credit, of which $35.9 million reduced availability under the Facility and $1.9 million reduced availability under uncommitted facilities outside of the U.S. As of December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Companys commercial paper program. The failure of a financial institution supporting the Facility would reduce the size of our committed facility unless a replacement institution were added. Currently, the Facility is supported by 17 U.S. and international financial institutions. The current availability on the Facility is shown in the following table: December 31, 2009 (in millions) Availability Committed credit facility $ 2,000.0 Availability reduction from covenants 562.9 1,437.1 Usage Borrowings Letters of credit outstanding 35.9 35.9 Current availability at December 31, 2009 $ 1,401.2 45 Table of Contents The Company was in compliance with its debt covenants as of December 31, 2009, and is expected to remain in compliance based on managements estimates of operating and financial results for 2010 and the foreseeable future; however, as of December 31, 2009, as shown in the table above, the Company may borrow an additional $1.4 billion of the $2.0 billion currently not utilized under the Facility, as borrowings above $1.4 billion would cause the Company to violate certain debt covenants in the Facility. In addition, the Company met all the conditions required to borrow under the Facility as of December 31, 2009 and management expects the Company to continue to meet the applicable borrowing conditions. While the credit markets were volatile during the first nine months of 2009, conditions have stabilized during recent months. At times during the year, volatility in the capital markets increased costs associated with issuing commercial paper or other debt instruments due to increased spreads over relevant interest rate benchmarks, or affected the Companys ability to access the credit markets. Despite these adverse market conditions, we believe that current cash balances and cash generated by operations, together with access to external sources of funds described previously, will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs in the foreseeable future. On March 13, 2009, Standard & Poors Ratings Services lowered the Companys long term corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings to BBB from BBB+ and lowered the Companys short term credit rating to A 3 from A 2. On April 8, 2009, Moodys Investors Service downgraded the Companys senior unsecured debt ratings to Baa3 from Baa2 while also downgrading the Companys short term credit rating to P 3 from P 2. The interest margin and the annual commitment fee under the Facility increased by 8 basis points and 2 basis points, respectively, following the downgrade. The downgrades limited the Companys capacity in the commercial paper market, but they did not affect our ability to borrow amounts under the Facility. On January 14, 2009, the Company issued $400 million of 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019. The Company used the net proceeds to pay down commercial paper and borrowings under the Facility. If the Company experiences a downgrade in its credit ratings below investment grade, these senior notes are subject to an increase from the 11.25% interest rate. The downgrades of the Companys debt ratings described above did not result in an increase in the interest rate for these senior notes. The Company borrowed $400.0 million in March 2009 under the Facility to repay the April 1, 2009 maturity of $400 million in senior notes. During the second quarter 2009, the Company repaid the $400 million of Facility borrowings. On August 26, 2009, the Company issued $350 million of 8.60% senior notes due August 15, 2016. The Company used the net proceeds, along with borrowings under the Facility and cash on hand, to repurchase $466.4 million of the 5.625% senior notes due January 15, 2012 and $174.2 million of the 4.95% senior notes due May 15, 2010. In the third quarter of 2009, the Company terminated a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment. The Company expects to pay approximately $121.3 million in related restructuring costs, of which $22.2 million was paid in the third quarter of 2009, $57.5 million was paid in January 2010 and $43.7 million was transferred to restricted cash within other noncurrent assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in December 2009 for payment in January of 2011. The January 2011 payment, projected to be $41.6 million as of December 31, 2009, is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates. On January 2, 2009, the Company acquired the assets of PROSA, for a purchase price of approximately $24 million. The Company financed this acquisition with cash on hand. On March 14, 2008, the Company acquired Pro Line, for a purchase price of approximately $122 million. The Company financed this acquisition with cash on hand and through issuances of commercial paper. 46 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company purchased in the open market 10.0 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $278.8 million. All of these repurchases were funded with cash on hand and through issuances of commercial paper. As of December 31, 2009, the Company is authorized, under the terms of a share repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors, to repurchase up to 10.0 million shares. Risk Management The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 99.5% of the Companys outstanding term debt was comprised of fixed rate debt. At December 31, 2009, the Companys exposure to rate fluctuations on variable interest borrowings was limited to $15.7 million, most of which were borrowings under international credit facilities. The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited in most countries because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent that borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit, the Company is exposed to currency risk and may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2009, the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts was approximately $437.0 million. Net unrealized losses from these foreign currency contracts were $5.5 million at December 31, 2009. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. OTHER INFORMATION Environmental, Health and Safety For a discussion of certain environmental, health and safety issues involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Litigation and Contingent Liabilities For a discussion of certain litigation involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. New Accounting Pronouncements and Pending Accounting Standards During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company adopted various accounting standards as described in Note 21, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Pending standards and their estimated effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements are described in Note 21, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable rate debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 99.5% of the Companys outstanding term debt was comprised of fixed rate debt. At December 31, 2009, the Companys exposure to rate fluctuations on variable interest borrowings is limited to $15.7 million. The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited in most countries because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other 47 Table of Contents transactions are not in the local currency of the operating units, the Company is exposed to currency risk and may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts was approximately $437.0 million and $299.4 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, the three year cumulative inflation for Venezuela using the blended Consumer Price Index and National Consumer Price Index exceeded 100%. As a result, as of January 1, 2010, Venezuelas economy is considered to be highly inflationary and the financial statements of the Companys Venezuelan entity will be remeasured as if the functional currency were the U.S. Dollar. Consistent with historical practices and the Companys future intent, the financial statements will be remeasured based on the official rate. On January 8, 2010, the government of Venezuela changed its primary fixed exchange rate from 2.15 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar to 4.3 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar, devaluing the Bolivar by 50%. This devaluation will result in an estimated pre tax loss of $11.1 million and a reduction in income attributable to noncontrolling interests of $4.7 million. Further devaluations of Venezuelas Bol&iacute;var could increase the significance of the remeasurement. The Company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change in interest and foreign currency rates. Using this sensitivity analysis, such changes would have an effect of $3.1 million on foreign currency gains and losses, but would not have a material effect on interest income or expense and cash flows; and would change the fair values of fixed rate debt at December 31, 2009 and 2008 by approximately $101.0 million and $151.9 million, respectively. Credit Risk The Company is exposed to credit risk on accounts receivable balances. This risk is mitigated due to the Companys large, diverse customer base, dispersed over various geographic regions and industrial sectors. No single customer comprised more than 10% of the Companys consolidated net sales in 2009, 2008 or 2007. The Company maintains provisions for potential credit losses and any such losses to date have normally been within the Companys expectations. However, as a result of the unprecedented credit crisis and economic downturn in 2008 and 2009, more of the Companys customers experienced liquidity issues during the year, while bankruptcy filings also increased. As a result of these conditions, the Companys bad debt expense increased by $40.9 million in 2008 compared to 2007; however, bad debt expense decreased $32.4 million in 2009 compared to 2008, as economic conditions began to stabilize. The Company evaluates the solvency of its customers on an ongoing basis to determine if additional allowances for doubtful accounts need to be recorded, and additional economic disruptions or a further slowdown in the economy could result in significant additional charges. Commodities The primary raw materials used by the Company are paper and ink. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company has incorporated price adjustment clauses in certain sales contracts. Management believes a hypothetical 10% change in the price of paper and other raw materials would not have a significant effect on the Companys consolidated annual results of operations or cash flows because these costs are generally passed through to its customers. 
 
