ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of RR Donnelleys financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements included in Item 15 of Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Business R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company (RR Donnelley, the Company, we, us, and our) is a global provider of integrated communications. Founded more than 146 years ago, the Company works collaboratively with more than 60,000 customers worldwide to develop custom communications solutions that reduce costs, enhance return on investment and ensure compliance. Drawing on a range of proprietary and commercially available digital and conventional technologies deployed across four continents, the Company employs a suite of leading Internet based capabilities and other resources to provide premedia, printing, logistics and business process outsourcing products and services to leading clients in virtually every private and public sector. The Company operates primarily in the commercial print portion of the printing industry, with related product and service offerings designed to offer customers complete solutions for communicating their messages to target audiences. The Companys reportable segments reflect the management reporting structure of the organization and the manner in which the chief operating decision maker regularly assesses information for decision making purposes, including the allocation of resources. The reporting structure includes two segments: U.S. Print and Related Services and International. The U.S. Print and Related Services segment includes the Companys U.S. printing operations, managed as one integrated platform, along with related logistics, premedia and print management services. This segments products and related service offerings include magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, financial printing and related services, direct mail, forms, labels, office products, statement printing, premedia and logistics services. The International segment includes the Companys non U.S. printing operations in Asia, Europe, Latin America and Canada. This segments products and related service offerings include magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, financial printing and related services, forms, labels, premedia and logistics services. Additionally, this segment includes the Companys business process outsourcing and Global Turnkey Solutions operations. Business process outsourcing provides transactional print and outsourcing services, statement printing, direct mail and print management services through its operations in Europe, Asia and North America. Global Turnkey Solutions provides outsourcing capabilities including product configuration, customized kitting and order fulfillment for technology, medical device and other companies around the world through its operations in Europe, North America and Asia. The Company separately reports its net sales and related costs of sales for its product and service offerings. The Companys product offerings primarily consists of magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, direct mail, financial print, forms, labels, statement printing, commercial print, office products and print management. The Companys service offerings primarily consists of logistics, premedia, EDGAR related and XBRL financial services and certain business process outsourcing services. 18 Table of Contents Executive Overview 2010 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The changes in the Companys income from continuing operations, operating margin, net earnings (loss) attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders and net earnings (loss) attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2010, from the year ended December 31, 2009, were due to the following (in millions, except per share data): IncomefromContinuingOperations OperatingMargin Net Earnings (Loss)Attributable toRR DonnelleyCommonShareholders Net Earnings (Loss)Attributable toRR DonnelleyCommonShareholdersperDiluted Share For the year ended December 31, 2009 $ 344.3 3.5 % $ (27.3 ) $ (0.13 ) 2010 restructuring and impairment charges (157.9 ) (1.6 %) (130.0 ) (0.62 ) 2009 restructuring and impairment charges 382.7 3.9 % 334.0 1.63 Acquisition related expenses (11.9 ) (0.1 %) (10.8 ) (0.06 ) 2010 Venezuela devaluation (4.5 ) (0.02 ) 2009 losses related to debt extinguishment 8.0 0.04 Write down of affordable housing investments 0.8 0.01 Income tax adjustments 15.6 0.08 Operations (1.7 ) (0.2 %) 35.9 0.13 For the year ended December 31, 2010 $ 555.5 5.5 % $ 221.7 $ 1.06 2010 restructuring and impairment charges: included $61.0 million and $26.9 million of non cash charges for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively; charges of $35.9 million for employee termination costs, substantially all of which were associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities; $29.5 million of other restructuring costs, of which $13.6 million related to multi employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment; and $4.6 million for impairment of other long lived assets. 2009 restructuring and impairment charges: included $128.5 million of non cash charges for the impairment of goodwill; charges of $118.6 million, as discounted for future cash payments, for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, of which $117.2 million, $0.8 million and $0.6 million are reflected as other restructuring charges, impairment and employee terminations, respectively; $78.8 million for other employee termination costs, substantially all of which were associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities; $32.1 million of other restructuring costs, primarily lease termination costs; and $24.7 million for impairment of long lived assets. Acquisition related expenses: included pre tax charges of $13.5 million ($11.8 million after tax) related to legal, accounting and other expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 associated with acquisitions completed or contemplated. For the year ended December 31, 2009, these pre tax charges were $1.6 million ($1.0 million after tax). 2010 Venezuela devaluation: currency devaluation in Venezuela resulted in a pre tax loss of $8.9 million ($8.1 million after tax) and an increase in loss attributable to noncontrolling interests of $3.6 million. 2009 losses related to debt extinguishment: included a $10.3 million pre tax loss on the repurchases of $466.4 million of the 5.625% senior notes due January 15, 2012 and $174.2 million of the 4.95% senior notes due May 15, 2010, as well as the reclassification of a pre tax loss of $2.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to investment and other expense due to the change in the hedged forecasted interest payments resulting from the repurchase of the 4.95% senior notes. 19 Table of Contents Write down of affordable housing investments: Investment and other expense included a $1.1 million ($0.7 million after tax) and $2.4 million ($1.5 million after tax) write down of the Companys affordable housing investments in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Income tax adjustments: included $15.6 million of income tax expense in 2009 due to the reorganization of entities within the International segment. Operations: reflected higher net sales in Asia, logistics, variable print and financial print, cost savings from restructuring actions and productivity efforts, higher pricing on by products recoveries and reduced depreciation and amortization and material costs, which were more than offset by price pressures, higher incentive compensation expense, LIFO inventory provisions and pension and postretirement expense. In addition, a lower effective tax rate due to the release of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets and lower interest expense due to effect of the interest rate swaps attributed to the increase in net earnings from continuing operations. See further details in the review of operating results by segment that follows below. 2010 Overview During 2010, the Company achieved modest organic net sales growth despite the inconsistent recovery in the world economy. On a consolidated basis, net sales increased $161.5 million, or 1.6% from 2009, of which $61.2 million, or 0.6%, related to the acquisition of Bowne. In addition, changes in foreign exchange rates increased net sales by $8.6 million, or 0.1%. Additionally, the net sales growth reflected increased business in Asia, higher logistics volume with growth in mail center and commingling services, higher volume in variable print due to production of the 2010 U.S. census mailings and increases in direct mailings from financial services and retail customers and increased volume in financial print due to higher capital market transactions. These increases were partly offset by continued price pressure and reductions in pass through paper sales in magazines, catalogs and retail inserts and books and directories. The Companys income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 61.3% compared to 2009 primarily due to lower restructuring and impairment charges, procurement savings and benefits achieved from restructuring activities. These benefits were partially offset by cost inflation, price pressures, higher pension and postretirement expenses, higher LIFO inventory provisions and higher incentive compensation expense. On November 24, 2010, the Company acquired Bowne for $465.2 million in cash, including debt assumed of $26.2 million and net of cash acquired of $41.4 million. Bowne, a provider of shareholder and marketing communication services, has operations in North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia. The Company expects the acquisition of Bowne to expand and enhance the range of services that the Company offers to its customers, while creating an opportunity to provide its comprehensive line of products and services to Bownes clients. In addition, this acquisition is expected to be accretive to earnings within twelve months of the closing date. As reflected above, $61.2 million of the Companys increase in net sales in 2010 related to Bowne. On December 17, 2010, the Company entered into a $1.75 billion unsecured and committed revolving credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) which expires December 17, 2013, subject to a possible one year extension if agreed to by the lending financial institutions. Interest on borrowings under the Credit Agreement is dependent on the Companys credit ratings at the time of borrowing and are calculated according to a base or Eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin. The Company will pay annual commitment fees at rates dependent on the Companys credit ratings. The Credit Agreement replaced the Companys previous $2.0 billion unsecured and committed revolving credit facility (the previous Facility). All amounts outstanding under the previous Facility were repaid with borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement will be used for general corporate purposes, including letters of credit and as a backstop for the Companys commercial paper program. 20 Table of Contents OUTLOOK Vision and Strategy RR Donnelleys vision is to improve on our existing position as a global provider of integrated communications by providing our customers with the highest quality products and services. The Companys long term strategy is focused on maximizing long term shareholder value by driving profitable growth, continuing its focus on productivity and maintaining a disciplined approach to capital deployment. To increase shareholder value, the Company pursues three major strategic objectives. These objectives are summarized below, along with more specific areas of focus. Strategic Objective Focus Areas 2011 Priorities Profitable growth New product development Global customer relationships Grow digital platforms as an integral element of market offering Leverage existing relationships to generate organic growth Offer cost saving solutions for customers Increase transactional sales Productivity Disciplined cost management Flexible cost structure Streamline and standardize processes Leverage scale to optimize asset utilization and procurement Use technology to increase productivity Balanced capitaldeployment Strong financial position Targeted mergers and acquisitions Capital spending targeted for growth and innovation Meet changing customer demands Maintain dividend Disciplined due diligence and financial analysis The Companys long term strategy is to generate profitable growth. In order to accomplish this, the Company will continue to make targeted capital investments to support new business and leverage its global platform. The Company is focusing its information technology efforts on projects that facilitate integration and make it easier for customers to manage their full range of communication needs. The Company is also working to more fully integrate its sales efforts to broaden customer relationships and meet our customers demands. The Companys global platform provides differentiated solutions for its customers through its broad range of complementary print related services, strong logistics capabilities, and its innovative leadership in both conventional and digital technologies. Management believes productivity improvement and cost reduction are critical to the Companys competitiveness, while enhancing the value the Company delivers to its customers. The Company has implemented strategic initiatives across all platforms to reduce its overall cost structure and enhance productivity, including restructuring, consolidation, reorganization and integration of operations, and streamlining of administrative and support activities. The Company seeks to deploy its capital using a balanced approach in order to ensure financial flexibility and provide returns to shareholders. Priorities for capital deployment, over time, include principal and interest payments on debt obligations, dividend payments to shareholders, capital expenditures, targeted acquisitions and share repurchases. The Company believes that a strong financial condition is important to customers focused on establishing or growing long term relationships with a stable provider of print and related services. The Company also expects to make targeted acquisitions that extend its capabilities, drive cost savings and reduce future capital spending needs. 21 Table of Contents The Company uses several key indicators to gauge progress toward achieving these objectives. These indicators include net sales growth, operating margins, cash flow from operations and capital expenditures. The Company targets long term net sales growth at or above industry levels, while achieving modest growth in operating margins. Combined with working capital management, this growth is expected to drive increasing cash flow from operations over time. Cash flow from operations can, however, be significantly impacted by the timing of non recurring or infrequent receipts and expenditures. Industry Environment The Company faces many challenges and risks as a result of competing in highly competitive global markets. Item 1A, Risk Factors, discusses many of these issues, and the Companys strategy is primarily focused on meeting the challenges of industry wide price competition and the advancement of technology. Overcapacity and pricing environment The print and related services industry, in general, continues to have excess capacity and remains highly competitive. Despite some consolidation in recent years, the printing industry remains highly fragmented. Across the Companys range of products and services, competition is based primarily on price, in addition to quality and the ability to service the special needs of customers. The additional excess capacity created by the recent declines in industry volume has resulted in intensified price competition in some product lines. Management expects that prices for the Companys products and services will continue to be a focal point for customers in coming years. As a result of these ongoing industry dynamics, the Company believes it needs to continuously lower its cost structure and further differentiate its products and service offerings. Technology Technological changes, including the electronic distribution of documents and data, online distribution and hosting of media content, advances in digital printing, print on demand and Internet technologies, continue to impact the market for the Companys products and services. The Company seeks to leverage distinctive capabilities of its products and services to improve its customers communications, whether in paper form or through electronic communications. The Company aims to help its customers succeed by delivering effective and targeted communications in the right format to the right audiences at the right time. Management believes that with the Companys competitive strengths, including its broad range of complementary print related services, strong logistics capabilities, technology leadership, depth of management experience, customer relationships and economies of scale, the Company has developed and can further develop valuable, differentiated solutions for its customers. As a substitute for print, the impact of digital technologies has been felt mainly in directories, forms and statement printing, as electronic communication and transaction technology has eliminated or devalued the role of many traditional paper forms. Electronic substitution has continued to accelerate in directory printing in part driven by environmental concerns and cost pressures at key customers. Despite rapid growth in the adoption of e books, the Company does not believe there has been a significant impact on the volume of print. However, management does expect to see lower long term growth in print book volume as e book penetration continues to expand. The future impact of technology on the Companys business is difficult to predict and could result in additional expenditures to restructure impacted operations or develop new technologies. While new technologies present significant challenges to certain of the Companys traditional products, management believes that the Company is a leader in key technologies that, as customers continue to shift towards customized and higher valued added print, will be valuable sources of industry growth. These technologies include digital content management and premedia services, digital print for personalization and print on demand, and low cost document process management. In addition, the ability to offer specialized services for certain customers, such as compliance assurance and secure environments for print, is becoming increasingly important. The Company continues to make focused investments in digital technologies in order to capitalize on these opportunities. 22 Table of Contents 2011 Outlook In 2011, the Company expects net sales to increase from 2010 primarily as a result of the acquisition of Bowne and organic growth driven by an anticipated continued moderate economic recovery, although the pace of the economic recovery is very difficult to predict. The Companys plans assume the slow and uneven recovery of the U.S. and European economies will continue during 2011, with significantly faster growth in developing economies. The Company expects further improvement in consumer discretionary spending and a continuation of the upward trend in advertising levels by our customers. In addition, the highly competitive market conditions and unused industry capacity will continue to put pressure on prices for both transactional work and contract renewals. We will continue to leverage the One RR Donnelley platform and powerful customer relationships in order to provide a larger share of our customers print and related integrated communications needs. In addition, the Bowne acquisition should result in a trend of further improvements in sales and earnings as cost savings are realized and technology solutions for customers are fully integrated. The Company also expects to continue cost control and productivity initiatives, including selected facility consolidations across certain platforms. In addition, the Company plans to continue the suspension of its regular matching contribution under its 401(k) plan; however, the Company will consider a discretionary 401(k) match in 2011 based on Company performance and market conditions. Projected significant increases in pension and postretirement benefits expense and healthcare costs are expected to have a negative impact on operating earnings. U.S. Print and Related Services Net sales in U.S. Print and Related Services are expected to increase in 2011 driven primarily by the acquisition of Bowne and the anticipated continuing economic recovery. Other than magazine, catalog and retail inserts and books and directories, all of the Companys reporting units are expected to have increased net sales. The continued impact of lower prices is expected to reduce sales in magazine, catalog and retail inserts despite the improving trend in advertising and consumer spending. Books and directories sales are expected to decrease as a result of lower directory volumes which continue to be negatively impacted by electronic substitution and regulatory changes. For variable print, net sales are anticipated to increase driven by direct mail opportunities in the financial and healthcare industries as well as the acquisition of Bowne. In forms and labels and office products, the Company is expecting increases in net sales primarily resulting from growth in outsourced office product volume and higher labels volume that will more than offset price pressures and the impact of electronic substitution. Commercial print sales are anticipated to increase from improved transactional volume and higher marketing and advertising spending that more than offset continuing price pressure. Net sales of logistics services are expected to increase, driven by continuing growth in mail center and commingling services, along with third party print logistics. Sales of financial print products and services are expected to increase primarily due to the acquisition and integration of Bowne along with continued strength in capital markets transactions. In premedia, the Company is anticipating increases in net sales from both new and existing customers resulting from increased marketing and advertising spending. The overall net sales increase in U.S. Print and Related services, combined with the integration of Bowne and an improved cost structure resulting from ongoing productivity efforts, is expected to result in increased operating income. International Net sales in the International segment are expected to increase from 2010 primarily driven by volume increases across all platforms and the acquisition of Bowne. Net sales in business process outsourcing are expected to increase driven by new customer wins and growth with existing customers. The Company expects sales increases in Asia resulting from volume growth in print packaging, domestic retail, catalog and book offerings and the acquisition of Bowne to be partially offset by continuing price pressure. The Company generally expects volumes in Latin America to increase driven by growth in commercial print in Argentina and Mexico along with the stabilization of the economy in Venezuela that will more than offset the continuing 23 Table of Contents decline in forms volumes in Brazil. Net sales in Europe are expected to increase due to new customer wins, improving commercial print and financial services volumes and the acquisition of Bowne, partially offset by lower directory volume and price declines. Sales in Global Turnkey Solutions are expected to improve slightly as volume growth from existing customers and new business is expected to more than offset a significant lost customer. Improvements in statement printing volumes from new customers, commercial print and the acquisition of Bowne are expected to increase sales in Canada. The International segment is expected to generate an increase in operating income in 2011 based on the expected net sales increase, the acquisition of Bowne, the lower cost structure of operations in all platforms and the impact of the Companys productivity initiatives. Other Pension and postretirement benefits expenses are expected to increase by approximately $23.4 million in 2011, reflecting the impact of increases in these liabilities due to lower discount rates and further recognition in operating earnings of 2008 asset losses that were initially recorded in other comprehensive income. Although the market value of securities in these plans rebounded in 2009 and 2010, the Companys pension and postretirement plans remain underfunded by $553.5 million and $298.4 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2010 as reported in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets and further described in Note 11, Retirement Plans, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Governmental regulations for measuring pension plan funded status differ from those required under U.S. GAAP for financial statement preparation. Based on the plans regulatory funded status as of January 1, 2010 and future years, required contributions in 2011 under all pension and postretirement plans are expected to be similar to recent years at approximately $61.0 million. The Company expects that required contributions in future years will increase, and may elect to make additional non required contributions to its plans in 2011. The effective tax rate in 2011 may be significantly lower than the 2010 rate due to the impact of the recognition of certain tax positions due to favorable resolution of audits or expirations of statutes of limitations. The effective tax rate may also be impacted by changes in the mix of earnings across jurisdictions. The expected improvement in earnings, along with a continuing focus on working capital management, are expected to generate higher cash flow from operating activities in 2011 compared to 2010. The Company expects to increase capital expenditures to be approximately $250 million to $275 million in 2011, driven by investments in developing economies and new technologies. The Company currently expects to maintain its quarterly dividend at current levels. The quarterly dividend must be approved by the Companys Board of Directors. Significant changes in market conditions or the consummation of one or more significant acquisitions could result in increased borrowings, reductions in capital expenditures or the dividend, or other changes to the Companys capital structure. Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Companys most critical accounting policies are those that are most important to the portrayal of its financial condition and results of operations, and which require the Company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company has identified the following as its most critical accounting policies and judgments. Although management believes that its estimates and assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon information available when they are made. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 24 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue for the majority of its products upon the transfer of title and risk of loss, which is generally upon shipment to the customer. Contracts and customer agreements generally specify F.O.B. shipping point terms. Under agreements with certain customers, custom products may be stored by the Company for future delivery. In these situations, the Company may receive a logistics or warehouse management fee for the services it provides. In certain of these cases, delivery and billing schedules are outlined in the customer agreement and product revenue is recognized when manufacturing is complete, title and risk of loss transfer to the customer, and there is a reasonable assurance as to collectability. Because substantially all of the Companys products are customized, product returns are not significant; however, the Company accrues for the estimated amount of customer credits at the time of sale. Revenue from services is recognized as services are performed. Within the Companys financial print operations, which serve the global financial services end market, the Company produces highly customized materials such as regulatory S filings, initial public offerings and EDGAR related and XBRL services. Revenue is recognized for these services following final delivery of the printed product or upon completion of the service performed. Revenues related to the Companys premedia operations, which include digital content management, photography, color services and page production, are recognized in accordance with the terms of the contract, typically upon completion of the performed service and acceptance by the customer. With respect to the Companys logistics operations, whose operations include the delivery of printed material, the Company recognizes revenue upon completion of the delivery of services. Certain revenues earned by the Company require judgment to determine if revenue should be recorded gross as a principal or net of related costs as an agent. Billings for third party shipping and handling costs, primarily in the Companys logistics operations, and out of pocket expenses are recorded gross. In the Companys Global Turnkey Solutions operations, each contract is evaluated using various criteria to determine if revenue for components and other materials should be recognized on a gross or net basis. In general, these revenues are recognized on a gross basis if the Company has control over selecting vendors and pricing, is the primary obligor in the arrangement, bears all credit risk and bears the risk of loss for inventory in its possession. Revenue from contracts that do not meet these criteria is recognized on a net basis. Many of the Companys operations process materials, primarily paper, that may be supplied directly by customers or may be purchased by the Company and sold to customers. No revenue is recognized for customer supplied paper, but revenues for Company supplied paper are recognized on a gross basis. As a result, the Companys reported sales and margins may be impacted by the mix of customer supplied paper and Company supplied paper. The Company records deferred revenue in situations where amounts are invoiced but the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are not met. Such revenue is recognized when all criteria are subsequently met. Accounts Receivable The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is reviewed for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments for products and services. Specific customer provisions are made when a review of significant outstanding amounts, utilizing information about customer creditworthiness and current economic trends, indicates that collection is doubtful. In addition, provisions are made at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable and the Companys historical collection experience. The Companys estimates of the recoverability of accounts receivable could change, and additional changes to the allowance could be necessary in the future, if a major customers creditworthiness deteriorates or actual defaults are higher than the Companys historical experience. Inventories The Company records inventories at the lower of cost or market value. Most of the Companys inventories are valued under the last in first out (LIFO) basis. Changes in inflation indices may cause an increase or decrease 25 Table of Contents in the value of inventories accounted for under the LIFO costing method. The Company maintains inventory allowances for excess and obsolete inventories determined in part by future demand forecasts. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for its products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and customer requirements, the Company could be required to increase its inventory allowances. Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets The Companys methodology for allocating the purchase price of acquisitions is based on established valuation techniques that reflect the consideration of a number of factors including valuations performed by third party appraisers when appropriate. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the fair value assigned to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Based on its organization structure, the Company has identified fifteen reporting units for which cash flows are determinable and to which goodwill is allocated. Goodwill is either assigned to a specific reporting unit or allocated between reporting units based on the relative excess fair value of each reporting unit. When the Companys organization structure changes, new or revised reporting units may be identified, and goodwill is reallocated, if necessary, based on relative excess fair value. The Company performs its annual goodwill impairment tests as of October 31, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. A two step method is used for determining goodwill impairment. In the first step, the Company compares the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair value, step two is completed to determine the amount of the impairment loss. Step two requires the allocation of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to the assets, including any unrecognized intangible assets, and liabilities in a hypothetical purchase price allocation. Any remaining unallocated fair value represents the implied fair value of goodwill, which is compared to the corresponding carrying value of goodwill to compute the goodwill impairment amount. In 2010, the Company recorded a total non cash charge of $61.0 million to reflect impairment of goodwill in the forms and labels reporting unit. As part of its annual impairment analysis for each reporting unit, the Company engaged a third party appraisal firm to assist the Company in its determination of the estimated fair value of each unit. This determination included estimating the fair value using both the income and market approaches. The income approach requires management to estimate a number of factors for each reporting unit, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, discount rates, and the allocation of shared or corporate items. The market approach estimates fair value using comparable marketplace fair value data from within a comparable industry grouping. In most cases, the Company weighted both the income and market approach equally to estimate the concluded fair value of each reporting unit. The determination of the fair value of the reporting units and the allocation of that value to individual assets and liabilities within those reporting units requires the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to: the selection of appropriate peer group companies; control premiums appropriate for acquisitions in the industries in which the Company competes; the discount rate; terminal growth rates; and forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges and capital expenditures. The allocation requires several analyses to determine fair value of assets and liabilities including, among others, trade names, customer relationships, and property, plant and equipment (valued at replacement costs). Although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, actual financial results could differ from those estimates due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making such estimates. Changes in assumptions concerning future financial results or other underlying assumptions could have a significant impact on either the fair value of the reporting units, the amount of the goodwill impairment charge, or both. Future declines in the overall market value of the Companys equity and debt securities may also result in a conclusion that the fair value of one or more reporting units has declined below its carrying value. 26 Table of Contents One measure of the sensitivity of the amount of goodwill impairment charges to key assumptions is the amount by which each reporting unit passed (fair value exceeds the carrying amount) or failed (the carrying amount exceeds fair value) the first step of the goodwill impairment test. For the thirteen units that passed step one, fair values exceeded the carrying amounts by between 21% and 804% of their respective estimated fair values. Small changes in the Companys key assumptions would not have resulted in any of these reporting units failing step 1. For the forms and labels reporting unit that failed, the carrying amount exceeded fair value by 8.8% of its respective estimated fair value. Accordingly, relatively small changes in certain key assumptions would have resulted in this reporting unit passing step one. There is no goodwill allocated to the business process outsourcing reporting unit at October 31, 2010. Generally, changes in estimates of expected future cash flows would have a similar effect on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. That is, a 1% decrease in estimated future cash flows would decrease the estimated fair value of the reporting unit by approximately 1%. The estimated long term rate of net sales growth can have a significant impact on the estimated future cash flows, and therefore, the fair value of each reporting unit. A 1% decrease in the long term net sales growth rate would have resulted in no additional reporting units failing the first step of the goodwill impairment test. Of the other key assumptions that impact the estimated fair values, most reporting units have the greatest sensitivity to changes in the estimated discount rate. The discount rate for the reporting units in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment were estimated to be 9.0% for most reporting units and 10.5% for the financial print, variable print, logistics and premedia reporting units as of October 31, 2010. Estimated discount rates for units in the International segment ranged from 8.5% to 14.0%. A 1.0 percentage point increase in estimated discount rates would have resulted in no additional reporting units failing step one. The Company believes that its estimates of future cash flows and discount rates are reasonable, but future changes in the underlying assumptions could differ due to the inherent uncertainty in making such estimates. Additionally, further price deterioration on contract renewals and new business along with lost or reduced volume could have a significant impact on the fair value for these reporting units. The Company evaluates the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and certain identifiable intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company performs impairment tests of indefinite lived intangible assets on an annual basis or more frequently in certain circumstances. Factors considered important which could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the assets or the strategy for the overall business, a significant decrease in the market value of the assets or significant negative industry or economic trends. When the Company determines that the carrying amount of long lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the indicators, the assets are assessed for impairment based on the estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recorded for the excess of the assets carrying amount over its fair value. During the third quarter of 2010, the Company recorded a non cash charge of $26.9 million for the impairment of acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the Global Turnkey Solutions reporting unit within the International segment. Commitments and Contingencies The Company is subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to environmental, employment and other matters, as well as preference claims related to amounts received from customers and others prior to their seeking bankruptcy protection. Periodically, the Company reviews the status of each significant matter and assesses potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the related liability is estimable, the Company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the Company reassesses the potential liability related to pending claims and may revise its estimates. 27 Table of Contents The Company purchases third party insurance for workers compensation, automobile and general liability claims that exceed a certain level. The Company is responsible for the payment of claims below these insured limits, and consulting actuaries are utilized to assist the Company in estimating the obligation associated with incurred losses, which are recorded in accrued liabilities and other non current liabilities. Historical loss development factors for both the Company and the industry are utilized to project the future development of incurred losses, and these amounts are adjusted based upon actual claims experience and settlement. If actual experience of claims development is significantly different from these estimates, an adjustment in future periods may be required. Restructuring The Company records restructuring charges when liabilities are incurred as part of a plan approved by management with the appropriate level of authority for the elimination of duplicative functions, the closure of facilities, or the exit of a line of business, generally in order to reduce the Companys overall cost structure. The restructuring liabilities might change in future periods based on several factors that could differ from original estimates and assumptions. These include, but are not limited to: contract settlements on terms different than originally expected; ability to sublease properties based on market conditions at rates or on timelines different than originally estimated; or changes to original plans as a result of mergers or acquisitions. Such changes might result in reversals of or additions to restructuring charges that could affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations of future periods. Accounting for Income Taxes Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Additionally, the Companys tax returns are subject to audit by various U.S. and foreign tax authorities. The Company recognizes a tax position in its financial statements when it is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that the position would be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. This recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 reflect these tax positions. Although management believes that its estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of uncertain tax positions may be materially different from that which is reflected in the Companys historical financial statements. The Company has recorded deferred tax assets related to future deductible items, including domestic and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards. The Company evaluates these deferred tax assets by tax jurisdiction. The utilization of these tax assets is limited by the amount of taxable income expected to be generated within the allowable carryforward period and other factors. Accordingly, management has provided a valuation allowance to reduce certain of these deferred tax assets when management has concluded that, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. If actual results differ from these estimates, or the estimates are adjusted in future periods, adjustments to the valuation allowance might need to be recorded. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, valuation allowances of $259.5 million and $277.5 million, respectively, were recorded in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Share Based Compensation The Company recognizes share based compensation expense based on estimated fair values for all share based awards made to employees and directors, including stock options, restricted stock units and performance share units. The Company recognizes compensation expense for share based awards expected to vest on a straight line basis over the requisite service period of the award based on their grant date fair value. The amount 28 Table of Contents of expense recognized for these awards is determined by the Companys estimates of several factors, including future forfeitures of awards, expected volatility of the Companys stock, and the average life of options prior to expiration. See Note 16, Stock and Incentive Programs for Employees, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans The Company records annual amounts relating to its pension and postretirement benefit plans based on calculations which include various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, assumed rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. The Company reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and modifies the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is appropriate to do so. The effects of modifications are recognized immediately on the balance sheet, but are generally amortized into operating earnings over future periods, with the deferred amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company believes that the assumptions utilized in recording its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on its experience, market conditions and input from its actuaries and investment advisors. The Company determines its assumption for the discount rate to be used for purposes of computing annual service and interest costs based on an index of high quality corporate bond yields and matched funding yield curve analysis as of that date. The discount rates for pension benefits at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were 5.5% and 6.0%, respectively. The discount rates for postretirement benefits at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were 5.2% and 5.7%, respectively. A one percentage point decrease in the discount rates at December 31, 2010 would increase the pension plans accumulated benefit obligation and projected benefit obligation by approximately $489.8 million and $503.1 million, respectively. A one percentage point decrease in the discount rates at December 31, 2010 would increase the postretirement plans accumulated benefit obligation by approximately $53.1 million. The Company employs a total return investment approach for its pension and postretirement benefit plans whereby a mix of equities, fixed income and, for certain pension plans, alternative investments is used to maximize the long term return of pension and postretirement plan assets. The intent of this strategy is to minimize plan contributions by outperforming the growth in plan liabilities over the long run. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status, and corporate financial condition. The investment portfolios contain a diversified blend of equity, fixed income and alternative investments. Furthermore, equity investments are diversified across geography, market capitalization and investment style through investments in U.S. large capitalization stocks, U.S. small capitalization stocks and international securities. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through annual liability measurements, periodic asset/liability studies and quarterly investment portfolio reviews. The expected long term rate of return for plan assets is based upon many factors including expected asset allocations, historical asset returns, current and expected future market conditions and risk. The prospective target asset allocation percentage for both the pension and postretirement benefit plans is approximately 75% for equity and other securities and approximately 25% for fixed income. The expected return on plan assets assumption at December 31, 2010 was 7.5% and 8.5% for the Companys major U.S. and Canadian pension plans, respectively, and was 7.6% for the Companys partially funded U.S. postretirement medical benefit plans. The Company also maintains several pension plans in other international locations. The expected returns on plan assets and discount rates for these plans are determined based on each plans investment approach, local interest rates and plan participant profiles. The health care cost trend rates used in valuing the Companys postretirement benefit obligations are established based upon actual health care cost trends and consultation with actuaries and benefit providers. At December 31, 2010, the current weighted average health care trend rate assumption for the major U.S. postretirement plans was 7.8% for both pre age and post age 65 participants. The current trend rate gradually decreases to an ultimate trend rate of 6.0%. The current weighted average health care trend rate assumption for the Canada postretirement plan was 9.0% for both pre age and post age 65 participants, gradually decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 5.5%. 29 Table of Contents A one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): Postretirement benefit obligation $ 7.5 Total postretirement benefit service and interest cost components 0.7 A one percentage point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): Postretirement benefit obligation $ (6.4 ) Total postretirement benefit service and interest cost components (0.6 ) Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than non cancelable operating lease commitments, the Company does not have off balance sheet arrangements, financings, or special purpose entities. Financial Review In the financial review that follows, the Company discusses its consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and certain other information. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and related notes that begin on page F 1. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 The following table shows the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, which reflects the results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates: 2010 2009 $ Change % Change (in millions) Net Sales Products $ 8,956.4 $ 8,925.4 $ 31.0 0.3 % Services 1,062.5 932.0 130.5 14.0 % Total net sales 10,018.9 9,857.4 161.5 1.6 % Products cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 6,857.8 6,789.8 68.0 1.0 % Services cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 785.1 673.1 112.0 16.6 % Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 1,123.4 1,088.5 34.9 3.2 % Restructuring and impairment charges 157.9 382.7 (224.8 ) (58.7 %) Depreciation and amortization 539.2 579.0 (39.8 ) (6.9 %) Total operating expenses 9,463.4 9,513.1 (49.7 ) (0.5 %) Income from continuing operations $ 555.5 $ 344.3 $ 211.2 61.3 % Consolidated Net sales of products for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $31.0 million, or 0.3%, to $8,956.4 million versus the prior year. Net sales of products increased due to the increased sales from the production of mailings for the U.S. Census and higher volume in Asia. In addition, net sales increased $38.4 million, or 0.4%, due to the acquisition of Bowne and $8.5 million, or 0.1%, from changes in foreign exchange rates. These increases were partially offset by decreases primarily attributable to continued price pressure and reductions in pass through paper sales in magazines, catalogs and retail inserts and books and directories. 30 Table of Contents Net sales from services for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $130.5 million, or 14.0%, to $1,062.5 million versus the prior year. Net sales from services increased due to higher logistics volumes driven in part by growth in mail center and commingling services. In addition, net sales increased $22.8 million, or 2.4%, due to the acquisition of Bowne. Products cost of sales increased $68.0 million to $6,857.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the prior year, primarily due to the acquisition of Bowne, volume increases, higher LIFO inventory provisions and higher incentive compensation expense, partially offset by higher pricing on by products recoveries and lower material costs. Products cost of sales as a percentage of products net sales increased from 76.1% to 76.6%, reflecting the continued price pressures on net sales, higher LIFO inventory provisions and higher incentive compensation expense as a result of the Company achieving certain targets, partially offset by the benefits of continued productivity efforts. Services cost of sales increased $112.0 million to $785.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the prior year, primarily due to logistics volume increases, higher incentive compensation expense and the acquisition of Bowne. Services cost of sales as a percentage of services net sales increased from 72.2% to 73.9%, reflecting the continued price pressures on net sales and higher incentive compensation expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $34.9 million to $1,123.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the prior year due to higher pension and postretirement expenses, the acquisition of Bowne and higher incentive compensation expense, partially offset by benefits achieved from restructuring activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated net sales increased from 11.0% to 11.2%, reflecting the acquisition of Bowne and higher incentive compensation expense. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded a net restructuring and impairment provision of $157.9 million compared to $382.7 million in 2009. In 2010, these charges included non cash pre tax charges of $61.0 million for the impairment of goodwill for the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. The goodwill impairment charge resulted from reductions in the estimated fair value of the forms and labels reporting unit, based on lower expectations for future revenue and cash flows due to continued impacts of electronic substitution on forms demand and increasing price pressure. In addition, the lower fair value reflects higher estimated spending on information technology and capital equipment, in part to better position this reporting unit for increased growth in labels volume as forms demand continues to decline. Impairment charges also included $26.9 million for the impairment of acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the Global Turnkey Solutions reporting unit within the International segment. The impairment of the customer relationship intangible asset primarily resulted from the termination of a customer contract. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded $35.9 million for workforce reductions of 1,458 employees (of whom 1,354 were terminated as of December 31, 2010) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations. These actions included the reorganization of certain operations within the Financial Print reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment due to the acquisition of Bowne. In addition, these actions included the closing of one Latin America manufacturing facility, one business process outsourcing manufacturing facility and one Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facility within the International segment. Further, continuing charges resulting from the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities in 2009 within the International segment were recorded in 2010. These actions also included the reorganization of certain operations within the magazine, catalog and retail insert and variable print reporting units and the closing of one forms and labels manufacturing facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. In addition, the Company recorded $4.6 million of impairment charges of other long lived assets and $29.5 million of other restructuring charges. The other restructuring costs included $13.6 million related to multi employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, as well as lease termination and other facility closure costs. For the year ended December 31 2009, these charges included a non cash pre tax charge of $128.5 million for the impairment of goodwill and $118.6 million, discounted for future cash payments, for the termination of a 31 Table of Contents significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, which allowed the Company to withdraw from certain unprofitable operations in this area. In addition, these charges included $78.8 million for workforce reductions of 4,043 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2010) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations. These actions also included the closings of two catalog, magazine and retail insert manufacturing facilities, two book manufacturing facilities and one premedia facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the closing of one Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facility, one business process outsourcing facility, one Latin America manufacturing facility and one European manufacturing facility within the International segment. Additionally, the Company recorded $24.7 million of impairment charges for other long lived assets and $32.1 million of other restructuring costs, including lease termination and other facility closure costs. Depreciation and amortization decreased $39.8 million to $539.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to a declining trend in capital expenditures over recent years. Depreciation and amortization included $99.3 million and $99.1 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, patents, trade names, licenses and non compete agreements for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $555.5 million compared to $344.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of 61.3%. The increase was primarily driven by the lower restructuring and impairment charges in 2010, procurement savings and benefits achieved from restructuring activities, partially offset by cost inflation, price pressures, higher LIFO inventory provisions and higher incentive compensation expense. Net interest expense decreased by $12.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the same period in 2009, primarily due to lower average outstanding borrowings and the effect of the interest rate swaps. In addition, 2009 was impacted by the accelerated amortization of debt issuance costs and unamortized discounts related to the repurchase of $640.6 million of senior notes. Net investment and other expense for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $9.9 million and $16.6 million, respectively. In 2010, the Company recorded an $8.9 million loss related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency, of which $3.6 million increased the loss attributable to noncontrolling interests. In addition, in 2009, the Companys repurchases of $640.6 million of its senior notes maturing in 2012 and 2010 resulted in a loss on the debt extinguishment of $10.3 million. As a result of the repurchase of the senior notes due May 15, 2010, the Company reclassified a loss of $2.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to investment and other expense in 2009 due to changes in the hedged forecasted interest payments. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 32.8% compared to 123.0% in 2009. The lower effective tax rate in 2010 reflects the release of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets due to the forecasted increase in net earnings for certain operations within the Latin America reporting unit. The higher rate in 2009 reflected a larger impact from the non deductible, non cash goodwill impairment charges and the partially deductible charges, discounted for future cash payments, of $118.6 million for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment. Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests was a loss of $4.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and income of $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The loss in 2010 as compared to income in 2009 primarily reflects the impact of the currency devaluation in Venezuela. Net earnings (loss) from continuing operations attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $221.7 million, or $1.06 per diluted share, compared to a loss of $27.3 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2009. In addition to the factors described 32 Table of Contents above, the per share results reflect an increase in weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 4.5 million primarily resulting from the Companys net loss in 2009 causing all outstanding options and unvested share awards to be anti dilutive, as well as increases in the average stock price and the issuance of shares related to the vesting of restricted stock units and stock options. U.S. Print and Related Services The following tables summarize net sales, income from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Net sales $ 7,532.2 $ 7,437.0 Income from continuing operations 638.9 489.2 Operating margin 8.5 % 6.6 % Restructuring and impairment charges 94.0 163.8 Reporting unit(1) 2010Net Sales 2009Net Sales $ Change % Change (in millions) Magazines, catalogs and retail inserts $ 1,934.2 $ 2,050.4 $ (116.2 ) (5.7 %) Books and directories 1,425.6 1,462.0 (36.4 ) (2.5 %) Variable print 1,209.0 1,149.3 59.7 5.2 % Forms and labels 822.4 829.5 (7.1 ) (0.9 %) Commercial 612.4 602.1 10.3 1.7 % Logistics 598.4 495.1 103.3 20.9 % Financial print 556.5 471.5 85.0 18.0 % Office products 212.4 228.7 (16.3 ) (7.1 %) Premedia 161.3 148.4 12.9 8.7 % Total U.S. Print and Related Services $ 7,532.2 $ 7,437.0 $ 95.2 1.3 % (1) The amounts included in the above table represent net sales by reporting unit and the descriptions above reflect the primary products or services provided by each. Included in these net sales amounts are sales of other products or services that may be produced within a reporting unit to meet customer needs and improve operating efficiency. Certain prior year amounts were restated to conform to the Companys current reporting unit structure. Net sales for the U.S. Print and Related Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $7,532.2 million, an increase of $95.2 million, or 1.3%, compared to 2009. Net sales increased due to higher logistics volumes and the increased sales from the production of mailings for the U.S. Census. In addition, the acquisition of Bowne increased net sales $48.1 million, or 0.6%. These increases were partially offset by reductions in pass through paper sales across the magazines, catalogs and retail inserts and books and directories reporting units and price declines across most reporting units. An analysis by reporting unit follows: Magazine, catalogs and retail inserts: Sales decreased due to reductions in pass through paper sales, lower prices and lower volume on contract renewals. Books and directories: Sales decreased primarily as a result of reductions in pass through paper sales, lower prices and lower sales in directories, partially offset by higher volume in educational books and related materials, as well as consumer books. Variable print: Sales increased due to the production of mailings for the U.S. Census and higher direct mailings from financial services and retail customers, partially offset by reduced print fulfillment and distribution volume from healthcare customers. 33 Table of Contents Forms and labels: Sales decreased due to continued price pressure on both forms and labels and lower forms volume, partially offset by increased sales of labels. Commercial: Sales increased due to higher volume from financial services and retail customers, partially offset by increased price pressure. Logistics: Sales increased primarily due to higher print and other logistics services volumes along with growth in mail center and commingling services, as well as higher fuel surcharges. Financial print: Sales increased due to increased capital market transactions and the acquisition of Bowne, partially offset by lower investment management and compliance volume. Office products: Sales decreased due to lower volume from large existing customers, customer losses and unfavorable pricing. Premedia: Sales increased due to volume from new customers and significantly higher volume at existing customers, partially offset by lower pricing. U.S. Print and Related Services segment income from continuing operations increased $149.7 million mainly driven by lower restructuring and impairment charges, cost reductions resulting from restructuring actions and productivity initiatives, higher pricing on by products recoveries and higher volumes, partially offset by the price declines discussed above. Operating margins in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment increased from 6.6% for the year ended December 31, 2009 to 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2010 due to lower restructuring and impairment charges, the cost reductions discussed above and higher pricing on by products sales, which more than offset the impact of lower prices and higher incentive compensation expense. International The following tables summarize net sales, income (loss) from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability within the International segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Net sales $ 2,486.7 $ 2,420.4 Income (loss) from continuing operations 149.5 (36.0 ) Operating margin 6.0 % (1.5 %) Restructuring and impairment charges 50.6 210.7 Reporting unit 2010Net Sales 2009Net Sales $ Change % Change (in millions) Business process outsourcing $ 553.4 $ 603.3 $ (49.9 ) (8.3 %) Asia 550.6 436.2 114.4 26.2 % Latin America 457.9 467.9 (10.0 ) (2.1 %) Europe 401.8 388.7 13.1 3.4 % Global Turnkey Solutions 300.6 321.6 (21.0 ) (6.5 %) Canada 222.4 202.7 19.7 9.7 % Total International $ 2,486.7 $ 2,420.4 $ 66.3 2.7 % Net sales for the International segment for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $2,486.7 million, an increase of $66.3 million, or 2.7%, compared to 2009. Net sales increased $13.1 million, or 0.5%, due to the acquisition of Bowne and $7.4 million, or 0.3%, from changes in foreign exchange rates. An analysis by reporting unit follows: Business process outsourcing: Sales decreased due to the lower volume resulting from the termination of a significant customer contract in 2009, partially offset by higher volume from a new customer contract. 34 Table of Contents Asia: Sales increased due to higher volume of books exported to the U.S. and Europe, higher local sales of catalogs and retail inserts and increased volume from technology manuals and packaging products, partially offset by lower prices on print packaging products. Latin America: Sales decreased due to the impact of the currency devaluation in Venezuela, disruptions caused by the Chilean earthquake and continued decreases in demand for business forms, particularly in Brazil, partially offset by changes in foreign exchange rates. Europe: Sales increased due to increased volume in technology manuals and other packaging products and changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by declining prices. Global Turnkey Solutions: Sales decreased due to unfavorable product mix from existing customers, partially offset by volume from new customers and changes in foreign exchange rates. Canada: Sales increased due to changes in foreign exchange rates and the acquisition of Bowne, partially offset by lower statement printing volume. Income (loss) from continuing operations increased $185.5 million primarily due to lower restructuring and impairment charges and increased business in Asia, partially offset by lower prices. Operating margins increased from a loss of 1.5% for the year ended December 31, 2009 to 6.0% for the year ended December 31, 2010, of which 6.7 percentage points were due to lower restructuring and impairment charges. The remaining increase resulted from cost reductions driven by restructuring actions and productivity improvements and the termination of the significant customer contract in 2009, which more than offset lower prices, cost inflation and higher incentive compensation expense. Corporate The following table summarizes unallocated operating expenses and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as Corporate: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Operating expenses $ 232.9 $ 108.9 Restructuring and impairment charges 13.3 8.2 Acquisition and related costs 13.5 1.6 Corporate operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $232.9 million, an increase of $124.0 million compared to 2009. The increase was driven by higher pension and postretirement benefit expense of $45.2 million, LIFO inventory provisions of $10.2 million in 2010 compared to a benefit of $17.6 million in 2009, higher acquisition related costs of $11.9 million and higher restructuring and impairment charges of $5.1 million related to the integration of Bowne, partially offset by cost reductions from productivity initiatives and restructuring actions. 35 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008 (in millions, except per share data) Income (loss)fromContinuingOperations OperatingMargin Net LossAttributable toRR DonnelleyCommonShareholders Net LossAttributable toRR DonnelleyCommonShareholders PerDiluted Share For the year ended December 31, 2008 $ (40.5 ) (0.3 %) $ (189.9 ) $ (0.90 ) 2009 restructuring and impairment charges (382.7 ) (3.9 %) (334.0 ) (1.63 ) 2008 restructuring and impairment charges 1,184.7 10.2 % 1,073.9 5.11 2009 acquisition related expenses (1.6 ) 0.0 % (1.0 ) 2009 losses related to debt extinguishment (8.0 ) (0.04 ) 2009 write down of affordable housing investments (1.5 ) (0.01 ) 2008 loss on termination of cross currency swaps 1.8 0.01 Income tax adjustments (282.4 ) (1.35 ) Discontinued operations (1.8 ) (0.01 ) Operations (415.6 ) (2.5 %) (284.4 ) (1.31 ) For the year ended December 31, 2009 $ 344.3 3.5 % $ (27.3 ) $ (0.13 ) 2009 restructuring and impairment charges: included $128.5 million of non cash charges for the impairment of goodwill; charges of $118.6 million, discounted for future cash payments, for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, of which $117.2 million, $0.8 million and $0.6 million are reflected as other restructuring charges, impairment and employee terminations, respectively; $78.8 million for other employee termination costs, substantially all of which were associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities; $32.1 million of other restructuring costs, primarily lease termination costs; and $24.7 million for impairment of long lived assets. 2008 restructuring and impairment charges: included $1,125.4 million of non cash charges for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; charges of $44.1 million for employee termination costs, substantially all of which were associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities; $10.6 million of other restructuring costs, primarily lease termination costs; and $4.6 million for impairment of other long lived assets. 2009 acquisition related expenses: legal, accounting and other expenses associated with acquisitions completed or contemplated. 2009 losses related to debt extinguishment: included a $10.3 million pre tax loss on the repurchases of $466.4 million of the 5.625% senior notes due January 15, 2012 and $174.2 million of the 4.95% senior notes due May 15, 2010, as well as the reclassification of a pre tax loss of $2.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to investment and other expense due to the change in the hedged forecasted interest payments resulting from the repurchase of the 4.95% senior notes. 2009 write down of affordable housing investments: Investment and other income (expense) included a $2.4 million ($1.5 million after tax) write down of the Companys affordable housing investments in 2009. 2008 pre tax loss on termination of cross currency swaps: Investment and other income (expense) included a $9.9 million ($1.8 million after tax) loss in 2008 resulting from the Companys termination of its cross currency swaps. Income tax adjustments: included $15.6 million of income tax expense in 2009 due to the reorganization of entities within the International segment. In addition, reflected tax benefits of $228.8 million realized in 36 Table of Contents 2008 related to the decline in value and reorganization of certain entities within the International segment, as well as a benefit of $38.0 million in 2008 from the recognition of uncertain tax positions upon the final settlement of certain U.S. federal tax audits for the years 2000 2002. Operations: reflected lower net sales primarily driven by the global economic slowdown, higher incentive compensation expense and lower pricing on by products sales, partially offset by cost savings from restructuring actions and productivity efforts, a benefit resulting from lower LIFO inventory provisions and the impact of 2008 share repurchases. See further details in the review of operating results by segment that follows below. The following table shows the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, which reflects the results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates. 2009 2008 $ Change % Change (in millions) Net sales Products $ 8,925.4 $ 10,465.0 $ (1,539.6 ) (14.7 %) Services 932.0 1,116.6 (184.6 ) (16.5 %) Total net sales 9,857.4 11,581.6 (1,724.2 ) (14.9 %) Products cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 6,789.8 7,772.9 (983.1 ) (12.6 %) Services cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 673.1 803.4 (130.3 ) (16.2 %) Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 1,088.5 1,220.5 (132.0 ) (10.8 %) Restructuring and impairment charges 382.7 1,184.7 (802.0 ) (67.7 %) Depreciation and amortization 579.0 640.6 (61.6 ) (9.6 %) Total operating expenses 9,513.1 11,622.1 (2,109.0 ) (18.1 %) Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 344.3 $ (40.5 ) $ 384.8 950.1 % Consolidated Net sales of products for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $1,539.6 million, or 14.7%, to $8,925.4 million versus the prior year. Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased net sales by $172.6 million, or 1.6%, while the acquisitions of PROSA and Pro Line increased net sales by $36.2 million, or 0.3%. The remaining decreases were primarily attributable to significant volume declines and continued price pressure across most products as customer demand decreased primarily due to the global economic slowdown. Net sales from services for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $184.6 million, or 16.5%, to $932.0 million versus the prior year. Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased net sales by $28.5 million, or 2.6%. The remaining decreases were primarily attributable to significant volume declines and continued price pressure across most services as customer demand decreased primarily due to the global economic slowdown. Products cost of sales decreased $983.1 million to $6,789.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 versus the prior year, primarily due to volume decreases and a benefit resulting from lower LIFO inventory provisions, offset by lower pricing on by product sales and higher incentive compensation expense. Product cost of sales as a percentage of product net sales increased from 74.3% to 76.1%, reflecting the impact of price pressures on net sales, volume declines, lower pricing on by products sales and higher incentive compensation expense, offset in part by the benefits of continued productivity efforts and lower LIFO inventory provisions. Services cost of sales decreased $130.3 million to $673.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 versus the prior year, primarily due to volume decreases partially offset by higher incentive compensation 37 Table of Contents expense. Services cost of sales as a percentage of services net sales increased from 72.0% to 72.2%, reflecting the impact of price pressures on net sales and higher incentive compensation expense, partially offset by the benefits of continued productivity efforts. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $132.0 million to $1,088.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 versus the prior year due to restructuring driven cost reductions, lower sales commissions based on reduced volume, decreased bad debt expenses, the elimination of the Companys 401(k) match and changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by higher incentive compensation expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated net sales increased from 10.5% to 11.0%, reflecting the impact of the net sales decline and higher incentive compensation expense, which more than offset the benefit of productivity efforts. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recorded a net restructuring and impairment provision of $382.7 million compared to $1,184.7 million in 2008. In 2009, these charges included a non cash pre tax charge of $128.5 million for the impairment of goodwill and $118.6 million, discounted for future cash payments, for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, which allowed the Company to withdraw from certain unprofitable operations in this area. In addition, these charges included $78.8 million for workforce reductions of 4,043 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2010) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations. These actions also included the closings of two catalog, magazine and retail insert manufacturing facilities, two book manufacturing facilities and one premedia facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities, one business process outsourcing facility, one Latin America manufacturing facility and one European manufacturing facility within the International segment. Additionally, the Company recorded $24.7 million of impairment charges for other long lived assets and $32.1 million of other restructuring costs, including lease termination and other facility closure costs. For the year ended December 31, 2008, these charges included non cash, pre tax charges of $1,125.4 million for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and $44.1 million for workforce reductions of 2,245 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2010) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities. These actions included the realignment and consolidation of the Canadian organization, management reorganization within Latin America, the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities within the International segment and the realignment and consolidation of the financial print organization in the U.S. Print and Related Services and International segments. In addition, the Company recorded $4.6 million of impairment charges of other long lived assets and $10.6 million of other restructuring costs, mainly related to lease terminations in exited facilities. Depreciation and amortization decreased $61.6 million to $579.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to reduced capital expenditures and the reduced balance of amortizable intangible assets resulting from the impairment of customer relationship intangible assets in the business process outsourcing unit in 2008. Changes in foreign exchange rates also caused the lower depreciation and amortization expense. Depreciation and amortization included $99.1 million and $123.3 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, patents, trade names, licenses and non compete agreements for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $344.3 million compared to a loss from continuing operations of $40.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in earnings was primarily driven by the higher non cash impairment charges recorded in 2008, as well as the cost savings achieved from restructuring activities and productivity efforts, a benefit resulting from lower LIFO inventory provisions due to reduced inventory levels and lower inventory and commodity prices, decreased bad debt expenses and lower intangible amortization expense, partially offset by the lower net sales primarily driven by the global economic slowdown, higher incentive compensation expense and lower pricing on by products sales. 38 Table of Contents Net interest expense increased by $8.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 versus the prior year, primarily due to the issuance of $400 million of 11.25% senior notes and $350 million of 8.60% senior notes on January 14, 2009 and August 26, 2009, respectively, as well as the accelerated amortization of debt issuance costs and unamortized discounts related to the repurchase of $640.6 million of senior notes maturing in 2012 and 2010 and lower international interest income as a result of lower interest rates, partially offset by lower average short term borrowings. Net investment and other expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $16.6 million and $2.4 million, respectively. In 2009, the Companys repurchases of $640.6 million of its senior notes maturing in 2012 and 2010 resulted in a loss on the debt extinguishment of $10.3 million. In addition, as a result of the repurchase of the senior notes due May 15, 2010, the Company reclassified a loss of $2.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to investment and other expense due to changes in the hedged forecasted interest payments. Additionally, the Company recorded a $2.4 million write down on its affordable housing investments. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company terminated its cross currency swaps, which resulted in a loss of $9.9 million. In addition, the Company sold an equity investment in Latin America, which resulted in a gain of $4.9 million. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 was a provision of 123.0% compared to a benefit of 31.2% in 2008. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 was impacted by the non deductible, non cash goodwill impairment charge of $128.5 million and the partially deductible charges, discounted for future cash payments, of $118.6 million for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment. The 2008 effective income tax rate was impacted by the non deductible goodwill impairment charge of $800.1 million and by tax benefits of $228.8 million related to the decline in value and reorganization of certain entities within the International segment and related tax benefits realized upon the reorganization of certain foreign entities therein and the benefit of $38.0 million from the recognition of uncertain tax positions upon final settlement of certain U.S. federal income tax audits for the years 2000 2002. Net loss from continuing operations attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $27.3 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, compared to $191.7 million, or $0.91 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition to the factors described above, the per share results reflect a decrease in weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 5.0 million, primarily resulting from the Companys repurchase of 10.0 million shares of its common stock in 2008. 39 Table of Contents U.S. Print and Related Services The following tables summarize net sales, income from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability, which reflect the results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates, within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Net sales $ 7,437.0 $ 8,704.2 Income from continuing operations 489.2 708.9 Operating margin 6.6 % 8.1 % Restructuring and impairment charges 163.8 405.8 Reporting unit(1) 2009Net Sales 2008Net Sales $ Change % Change (in millions) Magazines catalogs and retail inserts $ 2,050.4 $ 2,528.0 $ (477.6 ) (18.9 %) Books and directories 1,462.0 1,764.5 (302.5 ) (17.1 %) Variable print 1,149.3 1,261.5 (112.2 ) (8.9 %) Forms and labels 829.5 908.1 (78.6 ) (8.7 %) Commercial 602.1 711.9 (109.8 ) (15.4 %) Logistics 495.1 573.1 (78.0 ) (13.6 %) Financial print 471.5 522.6 (51.1 ) (9.8 %) Office products 228.7 270.5 (41.8 ) (15.5 %) Premedia 148.4 164.0 (15.6 ) (9.5 %) Total U.S. Print and Related Services $ 7,437.0 $ 8,704.2 $ (1,267.2 ) (14.6 %) (1) The amounts included in the above table represent net sales by reporting unit and the descriptions above reflect the primary products or services provided by each. Included in these net sales amounts are sales of other products or services that may be produced within a reporting unit to meet customer needs and improve operating efficiency. Certain prior year amounts were restated to conform to the Companys current reporting unit structure. Net sales for the U.S. Print and Related Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $7,437.0 million, a decrease of $1,267.2 million, or 14.6%, compared to 2008. The acquisition of Pro Line increased net sales $17.5 million, or 0.2%. The increase due to the acquisition was more than offset by volume and price declines across all products and services primarily due to the global economic slowdown. An analysis by reporting unit follows: Magazines, catalogs and retail inserts: Sales decreased due to lower page counts resulting from reduced advertising spending, lower circulation volume and price pressure on new and existing customer contracts. Books and directories: Sales decreased due to lower volume in educational books, related materials and directories. Variable print: Sales decreased due to an unfavorable shift in product mix, lower sales of direct mailings from financial service companies and retail customers and reduced fulfillment and distribution volume from healthcare customers. Forms and labels: Sales decreased due to lower volume from major customers and increased price pressure. Commercial: Sales decreased due to lower volume as a result of the economic slowdown and increased price pressure. 40 Table of Contents Logistics: Sales decreased primarily due to lower print volumes and reductions in fuel surcharges. Financial print: Sales decreased due to reductions in the size and number of capital market transactions and increased price pressure. Office products: Sales decreased primarily due to lower volume from large retail customers. Premedia: Sales declined due to lower volume from existing customers for print related products. U.S. Print and Related Services segment income from continuing operations decreased $219.7 million mainly because of the volume and price declines discussed above, lower pricing on by products sales and higher incentive compensation expense, partially offset by lower restructuring and impairment charges, operating cost reductions driven by the restructuring actions and productivity initiatives. Operating margins in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment decreased from 8.1% for the year ended December 31, 2008 to 6.6% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The margin declines resulted from the impact of volume declines, price pressures, lower pricing on by products sales and higher incentive compensation expense, partially offset by lower restructuring and impairment charges and cost savings, as discussed above. International The following tables summarize net sales, loss from continuing operations and certain items impacting comparability within the International segment: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Net sales $ 2,420.4 $ 2,877.4 Loss from continuing operations (36.0 ) (564.6 ) Operating margin (1.5 %) (19.6 %) Restructuring and impairment charges 210.7 774.7 Reporting unit 2009Net Sales 2008Net Sales $ Change % Change (in millions) Business process outsourcing $ 603.3 $ 734.0 $ (130.7 ) (17.8 %) Asia 436.2 473.0 (36.8 ) (7.8 %) Latin America 467.9 485.2 (17.3 ) (3.6 %) Europe 388.7 498.0 (109.3 ) (21.9 %) Global Turnkey Solutions 321.6 455.0 (133.4 ) (29.3 %) Canada 202.7 232.2 (29.5 ) (12.7 %) Total International $ 2,420.4 $ 2,877.4 $ (457.0 ) (15.9 %) Net sales for the International segment for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $2,420.4 million, a decrease of $457.0 million, or 15.9%, compared to 2008. The decrease in net sales was primarily due to changes in foreign exchange rates of $201.1 million, or 7.0%, and volume and price declines resulting from the global economic slowdown. An analysis by reporting unit follows: Business process outsourcing: Net sales decreased due to changes in foreign exchange rates, as well as lower volume in transactional print and mail and design and print management services. Asia: Sales decreased due to reduced export book sales and lower volumes and prices on print packaging products. Latin America: Net sales decreased due to changes in foreign exchange rates and lower sales of forms, partially offset by the acquisition of PROSA, which increased net sales by $18.7 million, or 3.9%. 41 Table of Contents Europe: Net sales decreased due to changes in foreign exchange rates and lower sales of directories and commercial print, as well as unfavorable product mix changes and declining prices, largely related to technology manuals and other related packaging products. Global Turnkey Solutions: Net sales decreased due to lower volume from retail and technology customers, as the economic slowdown impacted both consumer and business spending on their products, as well as changes in foreign exchange rates. Canada: Net sales decreased due to changes in foreign exchange rates and lower sales of forms and labels, statement printing and commercial print products. Loss from continuing operations decreased $528.6 million primarily due to lower restructuring and impairment charges, partially offset by volume declines, the ongoing impact of competitive price pressures, unfavorable product mix and higher incentive compensation expense, partially offset by lower intangible amortization expense. Operating margins as a percentage of sales increased from (19.6%) for the year ended December 31, 2008 to (1.5%) for the year ended December 31, 2009. Of this margin change, 19.6 percentage points were attributable to the impact of lower restructuring and impairment charges. In addition, the margin increase was due to cost reductions driven by restructuring actions and productivity improvements, partially offset by volume and price declines. Corporate The following table summarizes unallocated operating expenses and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as Corporate: Years EndedDecember 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating expenses $ 108.9 $ 184.8 Restructuring and impairment charges 8.2 4.2 Corporate operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $108.9 million, a decrease of $75.9 million compared to 2008. The decrease was primarily driven by a benefit resulting from the reduction in the LIFO inventory reserve of $17.6 million in 2009 as compared to an expense of $30.6 million in 2008, the elimination of the Companys 401(k) match and cost reductions from productivity and restructuring actions, partially offset by higher incentive compensation expense and higher restructuring and impairment charges. RESTRUCTURING, IMPAIRMENT, AND ACQUISITION RELATED CHARGES During 2010, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $157.9 million. These charges included $61.0 million for the impairment of goodwill within the forms and labels reporting unit in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, $26.9 million for the impairment of acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the Global Turnkey Solutions reporting unit within the International segment and $4.6 million for the impairment of other long lived assets. Additionally, these charges included $35.9 million related to workforce reductions of 1,458 employees (1,354 of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2010), associated with actions resulting from reorganization of certain operations. These actions included the reorganization of certain operations within the Financial Print reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment due to the acquisition of Bowne. In addition, these actions included the reorganization of certain operations within the business process outsourcing and Latin America reporting units and the continuing charges resulting from the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities in 2009 within the International segment. Further, these actions included the reorganization of certain operations within the magazine, catalog and retail insert and variable print reporting units and the closing of one Forms and Labels manufacturing facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. Finally, the Company recorded $29.5 million of other 42 Table of Contents restructuring charges, of which $13.6 million related to mutli employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, as well as lease termination and other facility closure costs. During 2009, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $382.7 million. These charges included $128.5 million for the impairment of goodwill and $24.7 million for the impairment of other long lived assets. In addition, the Company recorded charges, discounted for future cash payments, of $118.6 million for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, of which $117.2 million, $0.8 million and $0.6 million are reflected in other charges, impairment and employee terminations, respectively. Additionally, these charges included $78.8 million related to workforce reductions of 4,043 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2010), associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities. These actions included the closings of two magazine, catalog and retail insert manufacturing facilities, two book manufacturing facilities and one premedia facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities, one business process outsourcing facility, one Latin America manufacturing facility and one European manufacturing facility within the International segment. Finally, the Company incurred other restructuring charges of $32.1 million, including lease termination and other facility closure costs. During 2008, the Company recorded restructuring and impairment charges of $1,184.7 million. These charges included $800.1 million for the impairment of goodwill, $325.3 million for the impairment of customer relationships intangible assets and $4.6 million for the impairment of other long lived assets. In addition, these charges included $44.1 million related to workforce reductions of 2,245 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2009), associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities. These actions included the realignment and consolidation of the Canadian organization, management reorganization within Latin America, the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities within the International segment and realignment and consolidation of the financial print organization in the U.S. Print and Related Services and International segments. In addition, $10.6 million of other restructuring costs, including lease terminations in exited facilities, were recorded for the year ended December 31, 2008. During 2008, the Company capitalized $2.1 million of restructuring costs related to employee terminations and other costs in connection with the acquisition of Pro Line. Costs of $1.7 million were for workforce reductions of 23 employees resulting from the elimination of duplicative administrative functions. Charges of $0.4 million of other restructuring costs included lease terminations in exited facilities. The Company made cash payments of $158.1 million, $126.4 million and $68.9 million for restructuring activities during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. $95.8 million of the $158.1 million paid in 2010 and $22.2 million of the $126.4 million paid in 2009 related to the terminated customer contract discussed previously. These outlays were all funded using cash generated from operations and cash on hand. In 2011, the Company expects to realize further cost savings associated with the restructuring actions taken in 2010 and 2009, primarily through reduced employee and facility costs. Restructuring actions have been and will continue to be taken in conjunction with the recent acquisition of Bowne, which will result in significant additional restructuring charges in 2011. In addition, the Company expects to identify other cost reduction opportunities within both current and newly acquired businesses and possibly take further actions in 2011, which may result in significant additional restructuring charges. These restructuring actions will be funded by cash generated from operations and cash on hand or, if necessary, the Company will fund these costs by utilizing its credit facilities. 43 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following describes the Companys cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Cash Flows From Operating Activities Operating cash inflows are largely attributable to sales of the Companys products and services. Operating cash outflows are largely attributable to recurring expenditures for raw materials, labor, rent, interest, taxes and other operating activities. 2010 compared to 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $752.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $1,425.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in operating cash flow reflected the $515.8 million benefit from reductions in net working capital (accounts receivable, inventory, prepaid expenses and other current assets and accounts payable) driven by volume declines and efficiency improvement in 2009, the non recurring tax refund of $164.1 million in 2009, the continued price pressures on net sales in 2010, the $57.5 million payment in January 2010 related to the termination of the long term customer contract in 2009 and incentive compensation payments in the first quarter of 2010 compared to no such payments in 2009. These decreases were partially offset by higher operating earnings in 2010 driven by cost reductions from productivity and restructuring actions and the $22.2 million payment in the third quarter of 2009 related to the termination of the long term customer contract in 2009. 2009 compared to 2008 Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $1,425.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $1,018.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in operating cash flow reflected the extending of payment terms on accounts payable, the receipt of income tax refunds of $164.1 million, reductions in inventories and accounts receivable resulting from volume declines and a focus on improved working capital management, lower incentive compensation payments in 2009 as compared to 2008 and lower income tax payments due to decreased taxable income, partially offset by lower operating earnings driven by significant volume declines. Cash Flows From Investing Activities 2010 compared to 2009 Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $674.5 million compared to $260.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Net cash used for the acquisitions of Bowne, Nimblefish and 8touches during 2010 was $439.8 million and the acquisitions of PROSA and Prospectus during 2009 was $26.6 million. The Company used $17.0 million to purchase long term investments and $14.7 million to purchase short term deposits during 2010. The short term term deposits were subsequently liquidated for $14.9 million during 2010. The Company received proceeds from the sale of investments and other assets of $11.2 million during 2010 compared to $2.2 million during 2009. Capital expenditures were $229.4 million in 2010, an increase of $34.4 million compared to 2009. The Company continues to fund capital expenditures primarily through cash provided by operations. Finally, in 2009, the Company transferred $43.7 million to restricted cash within other noncurrent assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to the customer contract termination within the business process outsourcing reporting unit and received transfers from restricted cash of $6.2 million. 2009 compared to 2008 Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $260.9 million compared to $351.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Net cash used for acquisition of businesses during 2009 included $26.6 million for the acquisition of PROSA and Prospectus. For the year ended December 31, 2008, net 44 Table of Contents cash used for acquisitions included $132.6 million for the acquisition of Pro Line and another smaller acquisition, offset by proceeds of $10.5 million from purchase price adjustments related to previous acquisitions. The Company received proceeds from the sale of investments and other assets of $2.2 million during 2009 compared to $53.2 million during 2008, which included $27.3 million of net proceeds from the sale of certain investment securities related to the planned liquidation of a captive insurance subsidiary. Capital expenditures were $195.0 million, a decrease of $127.9 million compared to 2008, reflecting lower spending on capacity growth due to the significant reduction in production volumes resulting from the global economic slowdown. The Company continued to fund capital expenditures primarily through cash provided by operations. Finally, in 2009, the Company transferred $43.7 million to restricted cash within other noncurrent assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to the customer contract termination within the business process outsourcing reporting unit and received transfers from restricted cash of $6.2 million. In 2008, the Company received transfers of $40.6 million of restricted cash in 2008 primarily due to the release of excess funding from a trust associated with the Companys acquisition of Banta. Cash Flows From Financing Activities 2010 compared to 2009 Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $58.0 million compared to $1,028.0 million in 2009. During 2010, the Company received proceeds of $400.0 million from the issuance of long term senior notes which were partly used to repay borrowings on the Companys previous revolving credit facility (the previous Facility). Proceeds from the previous Facility borrowings were used, along with cash on hand, to pay the May 2010 maturity of senior notes of $325.7 million. In addition, the Company repaid $25.4 million and $1.9 million of debt assumed as part of the Bowne and Nimblefish acquisitions, respectively. During 2009, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of $750.0 million of long term senior notes and repaid $400.0 million in senior notes that matured April 1, 2009 and repurchased $466.4 million and $174.2 million of senior notes maturing January 15, 2012 and May 15, 2010, respectively. Net borrowings under the Companys revolving credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) and previous Facility were $120.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Net repayments under the previous Facility were $200.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The net change in other short term debt was a cash outflow of $305.6 million during 2009 primarily due to the pay down of commercial paper. 2009 compared to 2008 Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $1,028.0 million compared to $678.9 million in 2008. During 2009, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of $750.0 million of long term senior notes and repaid $400.0 million in senior notes that matured April 1, 2009 and repurchased $466.4 million and $174.2 million of senior notes maturing January 15, 2012 and May 15, 2010, respectively. Net repayments under the previous Facility were $200.0 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The net change in other short term debt was a cash outflow of $305.6 million during 2009 primarily due to the pay down of commercial paper. The net change in other short term debt for the year ended December 31, 2008 was a cash inflow of $6.8 million due to borrowings under international credit facilities, partially offset by the repayment of commercial paper. Additionally, $278.8 million was utilized during the year ended December 31, 2008 to acquire 10.0 million shares of common stock under the Companys share repurchase program. Other The Companys cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside of the United States. Most of the amounts held outside of the United States could be repatriated to the United States but, under current law, would be subject to additional United States federal income taxes and in some cases to local country taxes. Repatriation of some foreign balances is restricted by local laws. 45 Table of Contents Included in cash and cash equivalents of $519.1 million at December 31, 2010 were short term investments in the amount of $78.2 million, which primarily consist of certificate and short term deposits and money market funds. These investments are with institutions with sound credit ratings and are believed to be highly liquid. Dividends Cash dividends paid to shareholders totaled $214.4 million, $213.6 million and $219.2 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company has consistently paid a dividend since becoming a public company in 1956 and currently has no plans to cease or reduce its dividend payments in 2011. The Company believes it will continue to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to pay future dividends that may be approved by the Companys Board of Directors. On January 13, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.26 per common share, payable on March 1, 2011 to shareholders of record on January 28, 2011. Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commitments and Contingencies The following table quantifies our future contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010: Payments Due In Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter (in millions) Total debt(1) $ 5,295.5 $ 357.3 $ 386.4 $ 228.4 $ 814.5 $ 688.2 $ 2,820.7 Operating leases 725.9 160.8 123.2 96.4 75.2 57.1 213.2 Other(2) 235.8 176.4 43.7 10.7 4.9 0.1 Total as of December 31, 2010 $ 6,257.2 $ 694.5 $ 553.3 $ 335.5 $ 894.6 $ 745.4 $ 3,033.9 (1) Total debt includes $1,772.3 million of scheduled interest payments, of which the Company expects to pay $225.9 million in 2011. (2) Other represents contractual obligations for outsourced services ($176.6 million), purchases of property, plant and equipment ($34.6 million), employee restructuring related severance payments ($11.6 million) and purchases of natural gas ($8.7 million). The Company has included $4.3 million of uncertain tax liabilities that are classified as current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Excluded from the table are $152.8 million of uncertain tax liabilities, as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or timing of settlement. The Company expects to make cash contributions of approximately $45.8 million to its pension plans and approximately $15.2 million to its postretirement benefit plans in 2011, which are not reflected above. The Company may elect to make additional non required contributions to its plans in 2011. The Company expects that required contributions in future years will increase. As of December 31, 2010, the Company is authorized under the terms of its share repurchase program to repurchase 10.0 million shares. Such purchases may be made from time to time and discontinued at any time. LIQUIDITY The Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to support its ongoing operations and to invest in future growth to create value for its shareholders. Operating cash flows are the Companys primary source of liquidity and are expected to be used for, among other things, interest and principal on the Companys debt obligations, capital expenditures as necessary to support productivity improvement and growth, completion of restructuring programs, dividend payments that may be approved by the Board of Directors, additional acquisitions and future common stock or debt repurchases based upon market conditions. 46 Table of Contents Cash and cash equivalents of $519.1 million as of December 31, 2010 included $78.0 million that were readily available in the U.S. and $441.1 million that were available at international locations, most of which could be subject to U.S. federal income taxes and some of which could be subject to local country taxes if repatriated to the U.S. In addition, repatriation of some foreign cash is further restricted by local laws. The Company maintains a cash pooling structure that enables several participating international locations to draw on the Companys overseas cash resources to meet local liquidity needs. In addition, foreign cash balances may be loaned to U.S. operating entities on a temporary basis in order to reduce the Companys short term borrowing costs or for other purposes. On December 17, 2010, the Company entered into a $1.75 billion revolving unsecured and committed credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) which expires December 17, 2013, subject to a possible one year extension if agreed to by the lending financial institutions. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate dependent on the Companys credit ratings at the time of borrowing and will be calculated according to a base or Eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin. The Company will pay annual commitment fees at rates dependent on the Companys credit ratings. The Credit Agreement replaced the Companys previous $2.0 billion unsecured and committed revolving credit facility (the previous Facility). All amounts outstanding under the previous Facility were repaid with borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement can be used for general corporate purposes, including letters of credit and as a backstop for the issuance of commercial paper. The Credit Agreement is subject to a number of financial covenants that, in part, may limit the use of proceeds, and the ability of the Company to create liens on assets, incur subsidiary debt, engage in mergers and consolidations, or dispose of assets. The financial covenants require a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio, both to be computed on a pro forma basis as defined in the Credit Agreement. Based on the Companys results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 and existing term debt structure, as shown in the table below, the Company could utilize approximately $1.4 billion of the $1.75 billion Credit Agreement and not be in violation of those financial covenants. However, the Company does not expect the reduction in availability on the Credit Agreement to impact its ability to meet its liquidity requirements. In addition, borrowings under the Credit Agreement are subject to certain conditions, all of which were met at December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, there were $120.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement. The Company also has $107.4 million in credit facilities outside of the U.S., most of which are uncommitted. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had $57.0 million in outstanding letters of credit, of which $37.4 million reduced availability under the Credit Agreement and $11.8 million reduced availability under uncommitted facilities outside of the U.S. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had no commercial paper outstanding. The failure of a financial institution supporting the Credit Agreement would reduce the size of our committed facility unless a replacement institution were added. Currently, the Facility is supported by 20 U.S. and international financial institutions. The current availability on the Credit Agreement is shown in the following table: December 31, 2010 (in millions) Availability Committed credit facility $ 1,750.0 Availability reduction from covenants 247.0 1,503.0 Usage Borrowings under the committed credit facility 120.0 120.0 Current availability at December 31, 2010 $ 1,383.0 The Company was in compliance with its debt covenants as of December 31, 2010, and is expected to remain in compliance based on managements estimates of operating and financial results for 2010 and the foreseeable future; however, as of December 31, 2010, as shown in the table above, the Company may borrow 47 Table of Contents approximately $1.4 billion of the $1.75 billion currently not utilized under the Credit Agreement, as borrowings above $1.4 billion would cause the Company to violate certain debt covenants in the Credit Agreement. In addition, the Company met all the conditions required to borrow under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2010 and management expects the Company to continue to meet the applicable borrowing conditions. On March 31, 2010, Moodys Investors Service reaffirmed the Companys senior unsecured debt ratings and short term credit rating at Baa3 and P 3, respectively. On April 1, 2010, Standard & Poors Ratings Services reaffirmed the Companys long term corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings at BBB and maintained the Companys short term credit rating at A 3. On June 21, 2010, the Company issued $400 million of 7.625% senior notes due June 15, 2020. The Company used the net proceeds to repay borrowings under the previous Facility that were drawn on May 13, 2010 and used, together with cash on hand, to repay $325.7 million of senior notes due May 15, 2010. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. On August 26, 2009, the Company issued $350 million of 8.60% senior notes due August 15, 2016. The Company used the net proceeds, along with borrowings under the previous Facility and cash on hand, to repurchase $466.4 million of the 5.625% senior notes due January 15, 2012 and $174.2 million of the 4.95% senior notes due May 15, 2010. On January 14, 2009, the Company issued $400 million of 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019. The Company used the net proceeds to pay down commercial paper and borrowings under the previous Facility. If the Company experiences a downgrade in its credit ratings below investment grade, these senior notes are subject to an increase from the 11.25% interest rate. The Company borrowed $400.0 million in March 2009 under the previous Facility to repay the April 1, 2009 maturity of $400 million in senior notes. During the second quarter 2009, the Company repaid the $400 million of previous Facility borrowings. In the third quarter of 2009, the Company terminated a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment. The Company paid approximately $118.0 million in related restructuring costs, of which $22.2 million was paid in the third quarter of 2009, $57.5 million was paid in January 2010 and $38.3 million was paid in December 2010. On December 31, 2010, the Company acquired the assets of 8touches, for a purchase price of $1.1 million. The Company financed this acquisition with cash on hand. On December 14, 2010, the Company acquired the assets of Nimblefish, for a purchase price of $4.1 million. The Company financed this acquisition with cash on hand. On November 24, 2010, the Company acquired Bowne, for a purchase price of $480.4 million. The Company financed this acquisition with cash on hand and through borrowings under the previous Facility. On January 2, 2009, the Company acquired the assets of PROSA, for a purchase price of approximately $24 million. The Company financed this acquisition with cash on hand. On March 14, 2008, the Company acquired Pro Line, for a purchase price of approximately $122 million. The Company financed this acquisition with cash on hand and through issuances of commercial paper. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company purchased in the open market 10.0 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $278.8 million. All of these repurchases were funded with cash on hand and through issuances of commercial paper. As of December 31, 2010, the Company is authorized, under the terms of a share repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors, to repurchase up to 10.0 million shares. 48 Table of Contents Risk Management The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 79.3% of the Companys outstanding term debt was comprised of fixed rate debt. At December 31, 2010, the Companys exposure to rate fluctuations on variable interest borrowings was $732.1 million, including $600.0 million notional value of interest rate swap agreements (See Note 14, Derivatives, to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and $132.1 million in borrowings under the Credit Agreement, international credit facilities and other long term debt. The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited in most countries because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent that borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit, the Company is exposed to currency risk and may enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2010, the aggregate notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts was approximately $100.9 million (See Note 14, Derivatives, to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Net unrealized gains from these foreign exchange contracts were $0.2 million at December 31, 2010. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. OTHER INFORMATION Environmental, Health and Safety For a discussion of certain environmental, health and safety issues involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Litigation and Contingent Liabilities For a discussion of certain litigation involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. New Accounting Pronouncements and Pending Accounting Standards During 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company adopted various accounting standards. See Note 20, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the accounting standards adopted during 2010. Pending standards and their estimated effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements are described in Note 20, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable rate debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 79.3% of the Companys outstanding term debt was comprised of fixed rate debt. At December 31, 2010, the Companys exposure to rate fluctuations on variable interest borrowings was limited to $732.1 million. The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited in most countries because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating units, the Company is exposed to currency risk and may enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the aggregate notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts was approximately $100.9 million and $437.0 million, respectively. 49 Table of Contents The Company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change in interest and foreign currency rates. Using this sensitivity analysis, such changes would not have a material effect on foreign currency gains and losses, interest income or expense and cash flows, and would change the fair values of fixed rate debt at December 31, 2010 and 2009 by approximately $101.8 million and $101.0 million, respectively. Credit Risk The Company is exposed to credit risk on accounts receivable balances. This risk is mitigated due to the Companys large, diverse customer base, dispersed over various geographic regions and industrial sectors. No single customer comprised more than 10% of the Companys consolidated net sales in 2010, 2009 or 2008. The Company maintains provisions for potential credit losses and any such losses to date have normally been within the Companys expectations. The Company evaluates the solvency of its customers on an ongoing basis to determine if additional allowances for doubtful accounts need to be recorded, and additional economic disruptions or a further slowdown in the economy could result in significant additional charges. Commodities The primary raw materials used by the Company are paper and ink. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company has incorporated price adjustment clauses in certain sales contracts. Management believes a hypothetical 10% change in the price of paper and other raw materials would not have a significant effect on the Companys consolidated annual results of operations or cash flows because these costs are generally passed through to its customers. 
 
