ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of RR Donnelleys financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements included in Item 15 of Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Business R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company (RR Donnelley, the Company, we, us, and our) is a global provider of integrated communications. The Company works collaboratively with more than 60,000 customers worldwide to develop custom communications solutions that reduce costs, enhance return on investment and ensure compliance. Drawing on a range of proprietary and commercially available digital and conventional technologies deployed across four continents, the Company employs a suite of leading Internet based capabilities and other resources to provide premedia, printing, logistics and business process outsourcing products and services to leading clients in virtually every private and public sector. The Company operates primarily in the commercial print portion of the printing industry, with related products and service offerings designed to offer customers complete solutions for communicating their messages to target audiences. The Companys reportable segments reflect the management reporting structure of the organization and the manner in which the chief operating decision maker regularly assesses information for decision making purposes, including the allocation of resources. The reporting structure includes two segments: U.S. Print and Related Services and International. The U.S. Print and Related Services segment includes the Companys U.S. printing operations, managed as one integrated platform, along with logistics, premedia, print management and other print related services. This segments products and related service offerings include magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, financial printing and related services, direct mail, forms, labels, office products, statement printing, premedia and logistics services. The International segment includes the Companys non U.S. printing operations in Asia, Europe, Latin America and Canada. This segments products and related service offerings include magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, financial printing and related services, direct mail, forms, labels, packaging, manuals, statement printing, premedia and logistics services. Additionally, this segment includes the Companys business process outsourcing and Global Turnkey Solutions operations. Business process outsourcing provides transactional print and outsourcing services, statement printing, direct mail and print management services through its operations in Europe, Asia and North America. Global Turnkey Solutions provides outsourcing capabilities, including product configuration, customized kitting and order fulfillment for technology, medical device and other companies around the world through its operations in Europe, North America and Asia. The Company separately reports its net sales and related costs of sales for its products and service offerings. The Companys product offerings primarily consist of magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books, directories, direct mail, financial print, forms, labels, statement printing, commercial print, office products and print management. The Companys service offerings primarily consist of logistics, premedia, EDGAR related and XBRL financial services and certain business process outsourcing services. 19 Table of Contents Executive Overview 2011 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The changes in the Companys income from operations, operating margin, net earnings (loss) attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders and net earnings (loss) attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2011, from the year ended December 31, 2010, were due to the following (in millions, except margin and per share data): IncomefromOperations OperatingMargin Net Earnings (Loss)Attributable toRR DonnelleyCommonShareholders Net Earnings (Loss)Attributable toRR DonnelleyCommonShareholdersperDiluted Share For the year ended December 31, 2010 $ 555.5 5.5 % $ 221.7 $ 1.06 2011 restructuring and impairment charges (667.8 ) (6.3 %) (532.8 ) (2.75 ) 2010 restructuring and impairment charges 157.9 1.6 % 130.0 0.62 Acquisition related expenses 11.3 0.1 % 9.8 0.05 2011 gain on Helium investment 9.5 0.05 2011 loss on debt extinguishment (44.1 ) (0.23 ) 2011 gain on pension curtailment 38.7 0.4 % 24.3 0.13 2011 Journalism Online contingent compensation (15.3 ) (0.1 %) (9.7 ) (0.05 ) 2010 Venezuela devaluation 4.5 0.02 Recognition of income tax benefits 74.8 0.39 Operations (15.1 ) (0.6 %) (10.6 ) 0.08 For the year ended December 31, 2011 $ 65.2 0.6 % $ (122.6 ) $ (0.63 ) 2011 restructuring and impairment charges: included charges of $392.3 million and $90.7 million for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively; $76.7 million for employee termination costs; $59.6 million of other restructuring costs, including lease termination costs and multi employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges of $15.1 million due to the closing of three manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment; and $48.5 million for impairment of other long lived assets, primarily for land, buildings, machinery and equipment and leasehold improvements associated with facility closures. 2010 restructuring and impairment charges: included $61.0 million and $26.9 million of non cash charges for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively; charges of $35.9 million for employee termination costs; $29.5 million of other restructuring costs, of which $13.6 million related to multi employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment; and $4.6 million for impairment of other long lived assets. Acquisition related expenses: included pre tax charges of $2.2 million ($2.0 million after tax) related to legal, accounting and other expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 associated with acquisitions completed or contemplated. For the year ended December 31, 2010, these pre tax charges were $13.5 million ($11.8 million after tax). 2011 gain on Helium investment: included a pre tax gain of $9.8 million as a result of the acquisition of Helium, in which the Company previously held an equity investment. The pre tax gain is net of the Companys portion of the transaction costs incurred by Helium as a result of the acquisition. 2011 loss on debt extinguishment: included a pre tax loss of $69.9 million on the repurchases of $227.8 million of the 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019, $100 million of the 6.125% senior notes due January 15, 2017 and $100 million of the 5.50% senior notes due May 15, 2015. The $69.9 million pre tax 20 Table of Contents loss also included the reclassification of a $0.5 million pre tax loss from accumulated other comprehensive loss to loss on debt extinguishment due to the change in the hedged forecasted interest payments resulting from the repurchase of the 5.50% senior notes. 2011 gain on pension curtailment: included a pre tax gain of $38.7 million related to the remeasurement of the plans assets and obligations that was required with the announced freeze on further benefit accruals under all of the Companys U.S. pension plans as of December 31, 2011. 2011 Journalism Online contingent compensation: included pre tax expense of $15.3 million related to contingent compensation earned by the prior owners, based on achieving certain volume milestones for Journalism Onlines business following its acquisition by the Company. 2010 Venezuela devaluation: currency devaluation in Venezuela resulted in a pre tax loss of $8.9 million ($8.1 million after tax) and an increase in loss attributable to noncontrolling interests of $3.6 million. Recognition of income tax benefits: included the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits due to the expiration of U.S. federal statutes of limitations for certain years. See discussion in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operations: reflected a net decrease in volume within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, higher pension and other benefits related expenses and continued price pressures. These decreases were partially offset by higher volume in the International segment, higher recovery on by products, cost savings from restructuring actions, productivity efforts and lower incentive compensation expense. Income tax expense also decreased due to the recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits related to certain state tax matters. In addition, purchases of shares pursuant to the Companys share repurchase program resulted in higher interest expense and fewer weighted average shares outstanding. See further details in the review of operating results by segment that follows below. 2011 Overview Although net sales increased during 2011 compared to 2010, due to the acquisition of Bowne, the Companys net sales declined by approximately 0.6% on a pro forma basis (See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Changes in foreign exchange rates increased net sales by approximately 0.7%. The net sales decline on a pro forma basis resulted from lower overall volume and ongoing price pressure driven by worldwide market volatility, continued economic uncertainty and the increasing impact of electronic substitution on certain products. Despite this difficult environment, the International segment, along with certain products and services within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, achieved organic growth for the year. In particular, the Company had organic growth in Latin America and Asia, as well as in its logistics and commercial print offerings. The largest organic net sales declines were experienced in books and directories, due mostly to electronic substitution, variable print, due to the production and distribution of materials for the U.S. Census in 2010, and financial printing and related services, due to the 2011 decline in capital markets transactions activity. The Company continued to focus on productivity improvements throughout the year, and achieved significant savings from acquisition synergies, facility closures and continued cost management actions. The Company continued to make significant progress in the integration of Bowne, which included restructuring actions to eliminate duplicate facilities and personnel throughout the affected operations. In addition, amounts earned under the Companys 2011 employee incentive compensation plans declined, reducing expenses by $74.5 million compared to amounts earned in 2010. The Companys operating cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by approximately $193.8 million from 2010, reflecting improvements in working capital management, including the benefits of process and systems integration efforts related to the Bowne acquisition, improved credit and collection efforts, inventory reductions and increased standardization of vendor payment terms. The improvement to operating cash flow was also due to lower cash payments for restructuring and occurred despite a significant increase in cash payments for incentive compensation plans related to amounts earned in 2009 and 2010. 21 Table of Contents On November 2, 2011, the Company announced a freeze on further benefit accruals under all of its U.S. pension plans as of December 31, 2011. Beginning January 1, 2012, participants ceased earning additional benefits under the plans and no new participants will enter these plans. The plan freeze required a remeasurement of the plans funded status as of November 2, 2011, which resulted in a non cash curtailment gain of $38.7 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2011. Also effective January 1, 2012, the Company instituted a defined contribution matching program for most U.S. employees. This program includes a Company match equal to 40% of contributions on up to 6% of eligible compensation on a pay period basis. The cost of the Company match will be determined by the level of eligible employee contributions made to the plan and the related expense will be recognized as incurred. On May 3, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a program that authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of the Companys common stock through December 31, 2012. Share repurchases under the program may be made from time to time through a variety of methods as determined by the Companys management. As part of the share repurchase program, on May 5, 2011, the Company entered into an ASR with an investment bank under which the Company agreed to repurchase $500.0 million of its common stock. On May 10, 2011, the Company paid the $500.0 million purchase price and received an initial delivery of 19.9 million shares from the investment bank. The shares delivered were subject to a 20%, or $100.0 million holdback, which resulted in the Company receiving an additional 9.3 million shares on November 17, 2011. The additional shares received were calculated based upon the $17.13 volume weighted average price of the Companys common stock over an averaging period, subject to a discount agreed upon with the investment bank. The averaging period ended on November 14, 2011. OUTLOOK Vision and Strategy RR Donnelleys vision is to improve on our existing position as a global provider of integrated communications by providing our customers with the highest quality products and services. The Companys long term strategy is focused on maximizing long term shareholder value by driving profitable growth, continuing its focus on productivity and maintaining a disciplined approach to capital deployment. To increase shareholder value, the Company pursues three major strategic objectives. These objectives are summarized below, along with more specific areas of focus. Strategic Objective 2012 Priorities Profitable growth New product development Leverage existing customer base to generate organic growth Targeted mergers and acquisitions Productivity and cost control Disciplined cost management Flexible cost structure Cash flow and liquidity Prudent capital investment Disciplined approach to mergers and acquisitions The Companys long term strategy is to generate profitable growth. In order to accomplish this, the Company will continue to make targeted capital investments to support new business and leverage its global platform. The Company is focusing its information technology efforts on projects that facilitate integration and make it easier for customers to manage their full range of communication needs. The Company is also working to more fully integrate its sales efforts to broaden customer relationships and meet our customers demands. The Companys global platform provides differentiated solutions for its customers through its broad range of complementary print related services, strong logistics capabilities, and its innovative leadership in both conventional and digital technologies. 22 Table of Contents Management believes productivity improvement and cost reduction are critical to the Companys competitiveness, while enhancing the value the Company delivers to its customers. The Company continues to implement strategic initiatives across all platforms to reduce its overall cost structure and enhance productivity, including restructuring, consolidation, reorganization and integration of operations, and streamlining of administrative and support activities. The Company seeks to deploy its capital using a balanced approach in order to ensure financial flexibility and provide returns to shareholders. Priorities for capital deployment, over time, include principal and interest payments on debt obligations, dividend payments to shareholders, capital expenditures, share repurchases and targeted acquisitions. The Company believes that a strong financial condition is important to customers focused on establishing or growing long term relationships with a stable provider of print and related services. The Company also expects to make targeted acquisitions that extend its capabilities, drive cost savings and reduce future capital spending needs. The Company uses several key indicators to gauge progress toward achieving these objectives. These indicators include net sales growth, operating margins, cash flow from operations and capital expenditures. The Company targets long term net sales growth at or above industry levels, while achieving modest growth in operating margins. Combined with working capital management, this growth is expected to drive increasing cash flow from operations over time. Cash flow from operations can, however, be significantly impacted by the timing of non recurring or infrequent receipts and expenditures and by the level of required pension plan contributions. The Company faces many challenges and risks as a result of competing in highly competitive global markets. Item 1A, Risk Factors, discusses many of these issues, and the Companys strategy is primarily focused on meeting the challenges of industry wide price competition and the advancement of technology. 2012 Outlook In 2012, the Company expects net sales to increase from 2011 primarily as a result of organic growth in the International segment, which will largely be offset by continuing pricing pressures, as a result of the slow economy in the U.S. and volume declines driven by electronic substitution for certain of the Companys products and services. The highly competitive market conditions and unused industry capacity will continue to put pricing pressure on both transactional work and contract renewals. The Companys plans assume that the slow and uneven recovery of the U.S. economy will continue during 2012, with significantly faster growth in developing economies and a likely recession in Europe. The Company expects limited further improvement in consumer discretionary spending and a stable level of advertising spending by our customers. We will continue to leverage the One RR Donnelley platform and powerful customer relationships in order to provide a larger share of our customers print and related integrated communications needs. In addition, the Company expects to continue cost control and productivity initiatives, including selected facility consolidations across certain platforms. On November 2, 2011, the Company announced a freeze on further benefit accruals under all its U.S. pension plans as of December 31, 2011, which is expected to have a significant impact on operating earnings in 2012 and in future years. Concurrent with the pension freeze announcement, the Company reinstituted its defined contribution matching program for most U.S. employees which will partially offset the decrease in projected pension costs. As a result of the adoption of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the Company will benefit from the Employer Group Waiver Program (EGWP) and a decrease in post retirement benefits expense in 2012 is expected. U.S. Print and Related Services Net sales in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment are expected to slightly decrease in 2012 driven by increased pricing pressures and volume declines in books and directories. Lower volume is expected to result from declines in directory demand primarily due to the impact of electronic substitution and legislation changes, and a decline in book demand driven by electronic substitution, as well as consumer spending. These decreases are expected to be partially offset by an increase in educational book volumes due to the projected state spending 23 Table of Contents recovery. Net sales in magazines, catalogs and retail inserts is also expected to decline due mainly to continuing price declines on major contract renewals. These declines are expected to be largely offset by higher logistics volumes, primarily driven by continuing growth in mail services and international mail, along with third party print logistics and modest increases in most of the Companys other products and services. Although there is continued uncertainty around capital markets transactions activity, a substantial recovery could result in increased net sales within financial print. Despite price pressures and lower volume, the Company expects the U.S. Print and Related Services operating income to increase from 2011, as the result of an improved cost structure from ongoing productivity efforts, partially offset by inflationary pressures on certain raw materials. International Net sales in the International segment are expected to increase from 2011 primarily driven by anticipated volume increases in business process outsourcing and Asia. Volume increases in business process outsourcing should include outsourced services resulting from new customers and a large proportion of pass through materials. Higher volume in Asia is expected to result from focused domestic offerings, global print management efforts and an increase in capital markets transactions activity, partially offset by continued volume declines from an existing customer and price reductions. The International segment is expected to generate operating income roughly in line with that of 2011, as the higher volume is expected to be offset by lower prices and cost inflation. Other Pension and postretirement benefits expenses are expected to decrease by approximately $65.3 million in 2012, primarily reflecting the impact of the pension freeze, partially offset by the impact of lower discount rates and further recognition in operating earnings of historical asset losses that were initially recorded in other comprehensive income. The Companys pension and postretirement plans were underfunded by $1,074.0 million and $228.4 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011, as reported in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets and further described in Note 11, Retirement Plans, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Governmental regulations for measuring pension plan funded status differ from those required under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for financial statement preparation. Based on the plans regulatory funded status as of January 1, 2011 and future years, required contributions in 2012 under all pension and postretirement plans are expected to be approximately $220.8 million, which is an increase of approximately $162.9 million compared to contributions made in 2011. The Company expects that required contributions in future years will decrease from this level, but changes in market conditions may have a significant impact on the level of required funding. The defined contribution matching contributions and the anticipated increase in healthcare costs due to inflation are expected to partially offset the forecasted decrease in pension and postretirement benefits expenses. Cash flow from operating activities in 2012 are forecasted to be lower as compared to 2011 due to the expected increase in pension and postretirement plan contributions and less benefit from working capital management, partially offset by lower payments for employee incentive compensation. The Company expects capital expenditures to be approximately $200.0 million to $225.0 million in 2012. The Company expects to maintain its quarterly dividend, which must be approved by the Companys Board of Directors, at the current $0.26 per share level. Significant changes in market conditions or the consummation of one or more significant acquisitions could result in increased borrowings, reductions in capital expenditures or the dividend, or other changes to the Companys capital structure. Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 24 Table of Contents amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Companys most critical accounting policies are those that are most important to the portrayal of its financial condition and results of operations, and which require the Company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company has identified the following as its most critical accounting policies and judgments. Although management believes that its estimates and assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon information available when they are made. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue for the majority of its products upon the transfer of title and risk of loss, which is generally upon shipment to the customer. Contracts and customer agreements generally specify F.O.B. shipping point terms. Under agreements with certain customers, custom products may be stored by the Company for future delivery. In these situations, the Company may also receive a logistics or warehouse management fee for the services it provides. In certain of these cases, delivery and billing schedules are outlined in the customer agreement and product revenue is recognized when manufacturing is complete, title and risk of loss transfer to the customer, and there is a reasonable assurance as to collectability. Because substantially all of the Companys products are customized, product returns are not significant; however, the Company accrues for the estimated amount of customer credits at the time of sale. Revenue from services is recognized as services are performed. Within the Companys financial print operations, which serve the global financial services end market, the Company produces highly customized materials such as regulatory S filings, initial public offerings and EDGAR related and XBRL services. Revenue is recognized for these services following final delivery of the printed product or upon completion of the service performed. Revenues related to the Companys premedia operations, which include digital content management, photography, color services and page production, are recognized in accordance with the terms of the contract, typically upon completion of the performed service and acceptance by the customer. With respect to the Companys logistics operations, whose operations include the delivery of printed material, the Company recognizes revenue upon completion of the delivery of services. Certain revenues earned by the Company require judgment to determine if revenue should be recorded gross as a principal or net of related costs as an agent. Billings for third party shipping and handling costs, primarily in the Companys logistics operations, and out of pocket expenses are recorded gross. In the Companys Global Turnkey Solutions operations, each contract is evaluated using various criteria to determine if revenue for components and other materials should be recognized on a gross or net basis. In general, these revenues are recognized on a gross basis if the Company has control over selecting vendors and pricing, is the primary obligor in the arrangement and bears credit risk and the risk of loss for inventory in its possession. Revenue from contracts that do not meet these criteria is recognized on a net basis. Many of the Companys operations process materials, primarily paper, that may be supplied directly by customers or may be purchased by the Company and sold to customers. No revenue is recognized for customer supplied paper, but revenues for Company supplied paper are recognized on a gross basis. As a result, the Companys reported sales and margins may be impacted by the mix of customer supplied paper and Company supplied paper. The Company records deferred revenue in situations where amounts are invoiced but the revenue recognition criteria outlined above are not met. Such revenue is recognized when all criteria are subsequently met. Accounts Receivable The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is reviewed for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments for products and services. Specific customer provisions are made when a review of significant outstanding amounts, utilizing information about 25 Table of Contents customer creditworthiness and current economic trends, indicates that collection is doubtful. In addition, provisions are made at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable and the Companys historical collection experience. The Companys estimates of the recoverability of accounts receivable could change, and additional changes to the allowance could be necessary in the future, if a major customers creditworthiness deteriorates or actual defaults are higher than the Companys historical experience. Inventories The Company records inventories at the lower of cost or market value. Most of the Companys inventories are valued under the last in first out (LIFO) basis. Changes in inflation indices may cause an increase or decrease in the value of inventories accounted for under the LIFO costing method. The Company maintains inventory allowances for excess and obsolete inventories determined in part by future demand forecasts. If there were a sudden and significant decrease in demand for its products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of changing technology and customer requirements, the Company could be required to increase its inventory allowances. Goodwill and Other Long Lived Assets The Companys methodology for allocating the purchase price of acquisitions is based on established valuation techniques that reflect the consideration of a number of factors, including valuations performed by third party appraisers when appropriate. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the fair value assigned to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Based on its organization structure, the Company has identified fifteen reporting units for which cash flows are determinable and to which goodwill may be allocated. Goodwill is either assigned to a specific reporting unit or allocated between reporting units based on the relative excess fair value of each reporting unit. When the Companys organization structure changes, new or revised reporting units may be identified, and goodwill is reallocated, if necessary, based on relative excess fair value. The Company performs its goodwill impairment tests annually as of October 31, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. As of October 31, 2011, all reporting units had goodwill except for business process outsourcing. In 2011, the Company recognized a total non cash charge of $392.3 million for the impairment of goodwill in the commercial, forms and labels, Canada and Latin America reporting units. As of December 31, 2011, there was $7.4 million of goodwill remaining in the forms and labels reporting unit related to the acquisition of Stratus, which was acquired on November 21, 2011. The commercial, Canada and Latin America reporting units had no remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2011. The Company adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2011 08 Intangibles Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment (ASU 2011 08) for its October 31, 2011 annual goodwill impairment analysis. ASU 2011 08 allows the option to perform a qualitative, rather than quantitative, assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. In performing this qualitative analysis the Company considered various factors, including the excess of prior year estimates of fair value compared to carrying value, the effect of market or industry changes, and the reporting units actual results compared to projected results. As part of the qualitative review for impairment, management analyzed potential changes in fair value of these reporting units based on each reporting units operating results for the ten months ended October 31, 2011 compared to expected results. In addition, management considered how other key assumptions, including discount rates and expected long term growth rates, used in the 2010 impairment analysis could be impacted by changes in market conditions and economic events. Since October 31, 2010, the market value of the Companys stock has decreased and market yields on the Companys debt have increased, which management considered in performing its qualitative assessment of whether it was more likely than not that the fair values of these reporting 26 Table of Contents units were less than their carrying values. Based on this qualitative assessment, management concluded that as of October 31, 2011, it was more likely than not that the fair value of the following three reporting units was greater than their carrying value: logistics, Asia and Global Turnkey Solutions. For the remaining eleven reporting units, a two step method was used for determining goodwill impairment. In the first step (Step One), the Company compared the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeded the estimated fair value, the second step (Step Two) was completed to determine the amount of the impairment loss. Step Two requires the allocation of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to the assets, including any unrecognized intangible assets, and liabilities in a hypothetical purchase price allocation. Any remaining unallocated fair value represents the implied fair value of goodwill, which is compared to the corresponding carrying value of goodwill to compute the goodwill impairment amount. As part of its impairment analysis for these eleven reporting units, the Company engaged a third party appraisal firm to assist the Company in its determination of the estimated fair value. This determination included estimating the fair value using both the income and market approaches. The income approach requires management to estimate a number of factors for each reporting unit, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, discount rates, and the allocation of shared or corporate items. The market approach estimates fair value using comparable marketplace fair value data from within a comparable industry grouping. The Company weighted both the income and market approach equally to estimate the concluded fair value of each reporting unit. The determination of fair value in Step One and the allocation of that value to individual assets and liabilities in Step Two required the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily included, but are not limited to: the selection of appropriate peer group companies; control premiums appropriate for acquisitions in the industries in which the Company competes; the discount rate; terminal growth rates; and forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges and capital expenditures. The allocation of fair value under Step Two required several analyses to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities including, among others, trade names, customer relationships, and property, plant and equipment. Although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, actual financial results could differ from those estimates due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making such estimates. Changes in assumptions concerning future financial results or other underlying assumptions could have a significant impact on either the fair value of the reporting units, the amount of the goodwill impairment charge, or both. Future declines in the overall market value of the Companys equity and debt securities may also result in a conclusion that the fair value of one or more reporting units has declined below its carrying value. One measure of the sensitivity of the amount of goodwill impairment charges to key assumptions is the amount by which each reporting unit passed (fair value exceeds the carrying amount) or failed (the carrying amount exceeds fair value) Step One of the goodwill impairment test. For the seven units that passed Step One, fair values exceeded the carrying amounts by between 18.0% and 184.0% of their respective estimated fair values. Small changes in the Companys key assumptions would not have resulted in any additional reporting units failing Step One. For the four reporting units that failed, the carrying amount exceeded fair value by between 23.0% and 222.0% of their respective estimated fair values. Relatively small changes in key assumptions would not have resulted in these reporting units passing Step One. Generally, changes in estimates of expected future cash flows would have a similar effect on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. That is, a 1.0% decrease in estimated annual future cash flows would decrease the estimated fair value of the reporting unit by approximately 1.0%. The estimated long term net sales growth rate can have a significant impact on the estimated future cash flows, and therefore, the fair value of each reporting unit. A 1.0% decrease in the long term net sales growth rate would have resulted in no additional reporting units 27 Table of Contents failing Step One of the goodwill impairment test. Of the other key assumptions that impact the estimated fair values, most reporting units have the greatest sensitivity to changes in the estimated discount rate. The discount rate for the reporting units in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment was estimated to be 9.5% for most reporting units as of October 31, 2011. Estimated discount rates for units in the International segment ranged from 9.5% to 15.0%. A 1.0% increase in estimated discount rates would have resulted in no additional reporting units failing Step One. The Company believes that its estimates of future cash flows and discount rates are reasonable, but future changes in the underlying assumptions could differ due to the inherent uncertainty in making such estimates. Additionally, further price deterioration or lower volume could have a significant impact on the fair values of the reporting units. The Company evaluates the recoverability of other long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and certain identifiable intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company performs impairment tests of indefinite lived intangible assets on an annual basis or more frequently in certain circumstances. Factors considered important which could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the assets or the strategy for the overall business, a significant decrease in the market value of the assets or significant negative industry or economic trends. When the Company determines that the carrying amount of long lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the indicators, the assets are assessed for impairment based on the estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recorded for the excess of the assets carrying amount over its fair value. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recognized non cash impairment charges of $90.7 million, substantially all related to acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. In addition, the Company recognized non cash impairment charges of $49.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2011, related to land, buildings, machinery and equipment and leasehold improvements, primarily as a result of restructuring actions. Commitments and Contingencies The Company is subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to environmental, employment and other matters, as well as preference claims related to amounts received from customers and others prior to their seeking bankruptcy protection. Periodically, the Company reviews the status of each significant matter and assesses potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the related liability is estimable, the Company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the Company reassesses the potential liability related to pending claims and may revise its estimates. The Company purchases third party insurance for workers compensation, automobile and general liability claims that exceed a certain level. The Company is responsible for the payment of claims below and above these insured limits, and consulting actuaries are utilized to assist the Company in estimating the obligation associated with incurred losses, which are recorded in accrued liabilities and other non current liabilities. Historical loss development factors for both the Company and the industry are utilized to project the future development of incurred losses, and these amounts are adjusted based upon actual claims experience and settlement. If actual experience of claims development is significantly different from these estimates, an adjustment in future periods may be required. Restructuring The Company records restructuring charges when liabilities are incurred as part of a plan approved by management with the appropriate level of authority for the elimination of duplicative functions, the closure of facilities, or the exit of a line of business, generally in order to reduce the Companys overall cost structure. The 28 Table of Contents restructuring liabilities might change in future periods based on several factors that could differ from original estimates and assumptions. These include, but are not limited to: contract settlements on terms different than originally expected; ability to sublease properties based on market conditions at rates or on timelines different than originally estimated; or changes to original plans as a result of acquisitions. Such changes might result in reversals of or additions to restructuring charges that could affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations of future periods. Accounting for Income Taxes Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Additionally, the Companys tax returns are subject to audit by various U.S. and foreign tax authorities. The Company recognizes a tax position in its financial statements when it is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that the position would be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. This recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 reflect these tax positions. Although management believes that its estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of uncertain tax positions may be materially different from that which is reflected in the Companys historical financial statements. The Company has recorded deferred tax assets related to future deductible items, including domestic and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards. The Company evaluates these deferred tax assets by tax jurisdiction. The utilization of these tax assets is limited by the amount of taxable income expected to be generated within the allowable carryforward period and other factors. Accordingly, management has provided a valuation allowance to reduce certain of these deferred tax assets when management has concluded that, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. If actual results differ from these estimates, or the estimates are adjusted in future periods, adjustments to the valuation allowance might need to be recorded. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, valuation allowances of $273.2 million and $259.5 million, respectively, were recorded in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Deferred U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes are not provided on the excess of the investment value for financial reporting over the tax basis of investments in those foreign subsidiaries for which such excess is considered to be permanently reinvested in those operations. The Company has recognized deferred tax liabilities of $3.0 million as of December 31, 2011, related to certain foreign earnings which are not considered to be permanently reinvested. Share Based Compensation The Company recognizes share based compensation expense based on estimated fair values for all share based awards made to employees and directors, including stock options, restricted stock units and performance share units. The Company recognizes compensation expense for share based awards expected to vest on a straight line basis over the requisite service period of the award based on their grant date fair value. The amount of expense recognized for these awards is determined by the Companys estimates of several factors, including future forfeitures of awards, expected volatility of the Companys stock and the average life of options prior to expiration. See Note 16, Stock and Incentive Programs for Employees, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans The Company records annual amounts relating to its pension and postretirement benefit plans based on calculations which include various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected long term rates of return, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. The Company reviews its actuarial 29 Table of Contents assumptions on an annual basis as of December 31 (or more frequently if a significant event requiring remeasurement occurs) and modifies the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is appropriate to do so. The effects of modifications are recognized immediately on the balance sheet, but are generally amortized into operating earnings over future periods, with the deferred amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company believes that the assumptions utilized in recording its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on its experience, market conditions and input from its actuaries and investment advisors. The Company determines its assumption for the discount rate to be used for purposes of computing annual service and interest costs based on an index of high quality corporate bond yields and matched funding yield curve analysis as of that date. The discount rates for pension benefits at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were 4.9% and 5.5%, respectively. The discount rates for postretirement benefits at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were 4.8% and 5.2%, respectively. A one percentage point decrease in the discount rates at December 31, 2011 would have increased the accumulated benefit obligation and projected benefit obligation by the following amounts (in millions): Pension Plans Accumulated benefit obligation $ 563.5 Projected benefit obligation 568.7 Postretirement Plans Accumulated benefit obligation $ 43.1 On November 2, 2011, the Company announced a freeze on further benefit accruals under all of its U.S. pension plans as of December 31, 2011. Beginning January 1, 2012, participants ceased earning additional benefits under the plans and no new participants will enter these plans. The plan freeze required a remeasurement of the plans assets and obligations as of November 2, 2011, which resulted in a non cash curtailment gain of $38.7 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2011 and a reduction in its pension liability by $61.6 million. The remeasurement did not have a material effect on other components of net periodic pension expense for the year ended December 31, 2011. On August 3, 2011, the Company announced the decision to convert its current prescription drug program for certain medicare eligible retirees to a group based Company sponsored Medicare Part D program, or the EGWP, resulting from the adoption of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Beginning January 1, 2013, the EGWP subsidies provided to or for the benefit of this program will be used to reduce the Companys net retiree medical and prescription drug costs until such Company net costs are eliminated, and any of the EGWP subsidies received in excess of the amount necessary to offset such net costs will be used to reduce the included group of retirees premiums. The Company accounted for this change as a plan amendment requiring remeasurement of plan assets and obligations, which resulted in the Company reducing its postretirement benefits liability by $81.5 million in the second quarter of 2011. The Company employs a total return investment approach for its pension and postretirement benefit plans whereby a mix of equities, fixed income and, for certain pension plans, alternative investments is used to maximize the long term return of pension and postretirement plan assets. The intent of this strategy is to minimize plan contributions by outperforming the growth in plan liabilities over the long run. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status, and corporate financial condition. The investment portfolios contain a diversified blend of equity, fixed income and alternative investments. Furthermore, equity investments are diversified across geography, market capitalization and investment style through investments in U.S. large capitalization stocks, U.S. small capitalization stocks and international securities. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through annual liability measurements, periodic asset/liability studies and quarterly investment portfolio reviews. The expected long term 30 Table of Contents rate of return for plan assets is based upon many factors including expected asset allocations, historical asset returns, current and expected future market conditions and risk. In addition, the Company considered the impact of the current interest rate environment on the expected long term rate of return for certain asset classes, particularly fixed income. The prospective target asset allocation percentage for both the pension and postretirement benefit plans is approximately 75.0% for equity and other securities and approximately 25.0% for fixed income. The expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption at December 31, 2011 was 8.5% and 7.5% for the Companys major U.S. and Canadian pension plans, respectively, and 7.6% for the Companys U.S. postretirement benefit plan. The Company also maintains several pension plans in other international locations. The expected returns on plan assets and discount rates for these plans are determined based on each plans investment approach, local interest rates and plan participant profiles. The health care cost trend rates used in valuing the Companys postretirement benefit obligations are established based upon actual health care cost trends and consultation with actuaries and benefit providers. At December 31, 2011, the current weighted average health care trend rate assumption for the major U.S. postretirement plan was 7.0% for both pre age and post age 65 participants. The current trend rate increases to 8.0% in 2013 before decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 6.0%. The current weighted average health care trend rate assumption for the Canada postretirement plan was 7.0% for both pre age and post age 65 participants, gradually decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 4.5%. A one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): Postretirement benefit obligation $ 5.2 Total postretirement benefit service and interest cost components 0.5 A one percentage point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects (in millions): Postretirement benefit obligation $ (4.9 ) Total postretirement benefit service and interest cost components (0.5 ) Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than non cancelable operating lease commitments, the Company does not have off balance sheet arrangements, financings, or special purpose entities. Financial Review In the financial review that follows, the Company discusses its consolidated results of operations, financial position, cash flows and certain other information. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and related notes that begin on page F 1. 31 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 The following table shows the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, which reflects the results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates: 2011 2010 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Net sales Products $ 9,375.1 $ 8,956.4 $ 418.7 4.7 % Services 1,235.9 1,062.5 173.4 16.3 % Total net sales 10,611.0 10,018.9 592.1 5.9 % Products cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 7,185.2 6,857.8 327.4 4.8 % Services cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 906.6 785.1 121.5 15.5 % Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 1,236.3 1,123.4 112.9 10.0 % Restructuring and impairment charges 667.8 157.9 509.9 322.9 % Depreciation and amortization 549.9 539.2 10.7 2.0 % Total operating expenses 10,545.8 9,463.4 1,082.4 11.4 % Income from operations $ 65.2 $ 555.5 $ (490.3 ) (88.3 %) Consolidated Net sales of products for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $418.7 million, or 4.7%, to $9,375.1 million versus the prior year. Net sales of products increased due to the acquisition of Bowne, higher volume driven by increased business in Asia, Latin America and commercial print reporting units, changes in foreign exchange rates of $59.5 million, or 0.7%, and increases in pass through paper sales. These increases were partially offset by decreases in net sales primarily attributable to lower volume within the books and directories reporting unit, the production and distribution of materials for the U.S. Census in 2010, continued price pressures and a decline in capital markets transactions activity. Net sales from services for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $173.4 million, or 16.3%, to $1,235.9 million versus the prior year. Net sales from services increased due to the acquisition of Bowne and higher logistics volumes. Additionally, net sales from services increased due to changes in foreign exchange rates of $8.1 million, or 0.8%. Products cost of sales increased $327.4 million to $7,185.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 versus the prior year, primarily due to the acquisition of Bowne and higher materials costs, partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense, a gain on pension curtailment and a higher recovery on by products. Products cost of sales as a percentage of products net sales remained constant. Services cost of sales increased $121.5 million to $906.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 versus the prior year, primarily due to the acquisition of Bowne and higher logistics volume. Services cost of sales as a percentage of net sales decreased from 73.9% to 73.4%, reflecting lower incentive compensation expense, a gain on pension curtailment and productivity improvements, partially offset by an unfavorable mix within the financial print reporting unit and an increase in costs of transportation within the logistics reporting unit. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $112.9 million to $1,236.3 million, or from 11.2% to 11.7% as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the year ended December 31, 2011 versus the prior year, due to the acquisition of Bowne and higher pension and other benefits related expenses, partially offset by a gain on pension curtailment. These increases were also partially offset by cost savings from lower incentive compensation expense and restructuring activities. 32 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recorded a net restructuring and impairment provision of $667.8 million compared to $157.9 million in 2010. In 2011, these charges included non cash pre tax charges of $392.3 million for the impairment of goodwill for the commercial and forms and labels reporting units within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the Latin America and Canada reporting units within the International segment. The goodwill impairment charge resulted from reductions in the estimated fair value of the commercial, forms and labels, Canada and Latin America reporting units, based on lower expectations for future revenue, profitability and cash flows due to continued impacts of electronic substitution on demand for business forms and other products, as well as continued price pressure. In addition, the Company recorded a non cash charge of $90.7 million primarily related to the impairment of acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company also recorded $76.7 million for workforce reductions of 2,899 employees (of whom 2,790 were terminated as of December 31, 2011) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations, primarily related to the closings of certain facilities and headcount reductions due to the Bowne acquisition. In addition, these charges related to the completed or announced closing of four books and directories manufacturing facilities and one commercial manufacturing facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. These actions also included the reorganization of certain operations within the books and directories and magazines, catalogs and retail inserts reporting units within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, as well as the reorganization of certain operations within the Latin America and Europe reporting units within the International segment. Additionally, the Company incurred other restructuring charges, including lease termination and other facility closure costs of $59.6 million, of which $15.1 million related to multi employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily due to the completed closing of three manufacturing facilities, and $48.5 million of impairment charges primarily for land, buildings, machinery and equipment and leasehold improvements associated with the facility closings. For the year ended December 31, 2010, these charges included non cash pre tax charges of $61.0 million for the impairment of goodwill for the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. The goodwill impairment charge resulted from reductions in the estimated fair value of the forms and labels reporting unit, based on lower expectations for future revenue and cash flows due to continued impacts of electronic substitution on forms demand and increasing price pressure. In addition, the lower fair value reflects higher estimated spending on information technology and capital equipment, in part to better position this reporting unit for increased growth in labels volume as forms demand continues to decline. Impairment charges also included $26.9 million for the impairment of acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the Global Turnkey Solutions reporting unit within the International segment. The impairment of the customer relationship intangible asset primarily resulted from the termination of a customer contract. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded $35.9 million for workforce reductions of 1,458 employees (substantially all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2011) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations. These actions included the reorganization of certain operations within the Financial Print reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment due to the acquisition of Bowne. In addition, these actions included the closing of one Latin America manufacturing facility, one business process outsourcing manufacturing facility and one Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facility within the International segment. Further, continuing charges resulting from the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities in 2009 within the International segment were recorded in 2010. These actions also included the reorganization of certain operations within the magazine, catalog and retail insert and variable print reporting units and the closing of one forms and labels manufacturing facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. In addition, the Company recorded $4.6 million of impairment charges of other long lived assets and $29.5 million of other restructuring charges. The other restructuring costs included $13.6 million related to multi employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, as well as lease termination and other facility closure costs. 33 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization increased $10.7 million to $549.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to higher amortization expense associated with customer relationship intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of Bowne, partially offset by the impact of lower capital spending in recent years compared to historical levels. Depreciation and amortization included $112.2 million and $99.3 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, patents, trade names, licenses and non compete agreements for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $65.2 million compared to $555.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of 88.3%. The decrease was primarily driven by higher restructuring and impairment charges, continued price pressure and higher pension and other benefits related expenses, partially offset by higher volume, primarily related to the Bowne acquisition, a gain on pension curtailment, lower incentive compensation expense and benefits achieved from restructuring activities. Net interest expense increased by $20.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 versus the same period in 2010, primarily due to the issuance of $400 million of 7.625% senior notes on June 21, 2010 and $600 million of 7.25% senior notes on June 1, 2011, partially offset by the repayment of $325.7 million of 4.95% senior notes that matured on May 15, 2010. Additionally, net interest expense increased due to borrowings under the unsecured and committed revolving credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) used to finance the Companys ASR and increased borrowing rates and commitment fees related to the rating actions of credit rating agencies. These increases were also partially offset by interest savings due to the repurchase of debt in June and September 2011. Net investment and other income (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was income of $10.6 million and expense of $9.9 million, respectively. The year ended December 31, 2011 included a $10.0 million gain recognized on the acquisition of Helium, in which the Company previously held an equity investment. For year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded an $8.9 million loss related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency, of which $3.6 million increased the loss attributable to noncontrolling interests as reflected below. Loss on debt extinguishment for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $69.9 million. The loss was due to the repurchases of $227.8 million of the 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019, $100 million of the 6.125% senior notes due January 15, 2017 and $100 million of the 5.50% senior notes due May 15, 2015. These senior notes were repurchased to improve the debt maturity profile of the Company and to take advantage of the low interest rate environment. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 was 49.0% compared to 32.8% in 2010. The tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2011 reflected recognition of $74.8 million of previously unrecognized tax benefits due to the expiration of U.S. federal statutes of limitations for certain years. The 2010 effective tax rate reflected the release of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets due to the forecasted increase in net earnings for certain operations within Latin America. Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests was income of $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and a loss of $4.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The loss in 2010 as compared to income in 2011 primarily reflects the impact of the 2010 currency devaluation in Venezuela. Net loss attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $122.6 million, or $0.63 per diluted share, compared to net earnings attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders of $221.7 million, or $1.06 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2010. In addition to the factors described above, the per share results reflect a decrease in weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 15.9 million primarily due to the purchase of shares during the year ended December 31, 2011 as a result of the accelerated share repurchase program. 34 Table of Contents U.S. Print and Related Services The following tables summarize net sales, income from operations and certain items impacting comparability within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 (in millions, except percentages) Net sales $ 7,846.5 $ 7,532.2 Income from operations 232.9 638.9 Operating margin 3.0 % 8.5 % Restructuring and impairment charges 505.1 94.0 Journalism Online contingent compensation 15.3 Reporting unit 2011Net Sales 2010Net Sales $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Magazines, catalogs and retail inserts $ 1,903.9 $ 1,934.2 $ (30.3 ) (1.6 %) Books and directories 1,292.5 1,425.6 (133.1 ) (9.3 %) Variable print(1) 1,250.1 1,233.4 16.7 1.4 % Financial print 907.6 556.5 351.1 63.1 % Forms and labels 789.0 822.4 (33.4 ) (4.1 %) Logistics 688.9 598.4 90.5 15.1 % Commercial(1) 639.6 588.0 51.6 8.8 % Office products 220.7 212.4 8.3 3.9 % Premedia 154.2 161.3 (7.1 ) (4.4 %) Total U.S. Print and Related Services $ 7,846.5 $ 7,532.2 $ 314.3 4.2 % The amounts included in the above table represent net sales by reporting unit and the descriptions above reflect the primary products or services provided by each. Included in these net sales amounts are sales of other products or services that may be produced within a reporting unit to meet customer needs and improve operating efficiency. (1) Certain prior year amounts were restated to conform to the Companys current reporting unit structure. Net sales for the U.S. Print and Related Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $7,846.5 million, an increase of $314.3 million, or 4.2%, compared to 2010. Net sales increased due to the acquisition of Bowne, as well as higher logistics and commercial volumes. The increases not related to the Bowne acquisition were more than offset by lower volume in books and directories, the production and distribution of materials for the U.S. Census in 2010, continued price pressures and a decline in capital markets transactions activity within financial print. An analysis of net sales by reporting unit follows: Magazine, catalogs and retail inserts: Sales decreased due to continued price pressures and lower volume, partially offset by higher pass through paper sales. Books and directories: Sales decreased primarily as a result of lower volume in consumer books, educational books and directories, as well as lower pass through paper sales in directories. The decrease in the volume of consumer books was due to the increasing popularity of e books and the liquidation of a large bookstore chain. The decrease in the volume of educational books was the result of lower state funding for education instructional materials. Variable print: Sales increased due to the acquisition of Bowne, higher volume due to a contract with a large retail chain and higher direct mailings from financial services customers. These increases were partially offset by the production and distribution of materials for the U.S. Census in 2010, lower statement printing volume, reduction in pass through postage sales and increased price pressure. 35 Table of Contents Financial print: Sales increased as a result of the Bowne acquisition and higher volume in compliance and investment management transactions. These increases were partially offset by a decline in capital markets transactions activity. Forms and labels: Sales decreased primarily due to lower forms volume and continued price pressure on both forms and labels, partially offset by increased volume in labels. Logistics: Sales increased primarily due to higher print logistics services volumes along with higher fuel surcharges, as well as growth in mail center and commingling services. Commercial: Sales increased due to higher volume from new customers, as well as an increase in pass through sales due to growth in print management, partially offset by increased price pressure. Office products: Sales increased due to new business from existing customers. Premedia: Sales decreased primarily due to continued price pressures and lower volume from existing customers, partially offset by higher volume from new customers. Income from operations decreased $406.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, mainly driven by higher restructuring and impairment charges, continued price pressures and lower volumes in books and directories, partially offset by the acquisition of Bowne and lower incentive compensation expense. Operating margins decreased from 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2010 to 3.0% for the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily due to higher restructuring and impairment charges. Operating margins also decreased due to higher pass through paper sales in magazines, catalogs and retail inserts, increased compliance volume in financial print and higher pass through sales due to growth in print management. International The following tables summarize net sales, income from operations and certain items impacting comparability within the International segment: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 (in millions, except percentages) Net sales $ 2,764.5 $ 2,486.7 Income from operations 35.4 149.5 Operating margin 1.3 % 6.0 % Restructuring and impairment charges 157.0 50.6 Reporting unit 2011Net Sales 2010Net Sales $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Asia $ 629.6 $ 550.6 $ 79.0 14.3 % Business process outsourcing 574.3 553.4 20.9 3.8 % Latin America 522.4 457.9 64.5 14.1 % Europe 473.4 401.8 71.6 17.8 % Global Turnkey Solutions 290.9 300.6 (9.7 ) (3.2 %) Canada 273.9 222.4 51.5 23.2 % Total International $ 2,764.5 $ 2,486.7 $ 277.8 11.2 % 36 Table of Contents Net sales for the International segment for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $2,764.5 million, an increase of $277.8 million, or 11.2%, compared to 2010. The net sales increase was due to the acquisition of Bowne, increased business in Asia and Latin America, changes in foreign exchange rates of $67.1 million, or 2.7%, as well as higher pass through paper sales. An analysis of net sales by reporting unit follows: Asia: Sales increased due to higher domestic sales of catalogs and retail inserts, increased volume from technology manuals and packaging products and changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by a decline in capital markets transactions activity and continued price pressures. Business process outsourcing: Sales increased due to changes in foreign exchange rates and higher pass through sales, partially offset by lower direct mailings and expiring contracts. Latin America: Sales increased due to increased commercial print volumes in Argentina, Chile and Mexico, higher sales of books in Brazil and Chile, as well as changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by the continued decline in forms volumes in Brazil and continued price pressures. Europe: Sales increased due to higher pass through paper sales, changes in foreign exchange rates, increased commercial print volume and the acquisition of Bowne, partially offset by lower prices, as well as a decrease in technology and telecommunications packaging and directories volume. Global Turnkey Solutions: Sales decreased due to lower volume from existing customers and an expiring contract, partially offset by volume increases from a new customer contract and other existing customers. Canada: Sales increased due to the acquisition of Bowne and changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by a decline in capital markets transactions activity and lower forms volume. Income from operations decreased $114.1 million for the year ended December 31 2011, primarily due to higher impairment charges and continued price pressure, partially offset by the acquisition of Bowne. Operating margins decreased from 6.0% for the year ended December 31, 2010 to 1.3% for the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily due to higher impairment charges, increased pass through paper sales in Europe and lower prices, partially offset by higher volume. Corporate The following table summarizes unallocated operating expenses and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as Corporate: Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 (in millions) Operating expenses $ 203.1 $ 232.9 Restructuring and impairment charges 5.7 13.3 Acquisition related expenses 2.2 13.5 Gain on pension curtailment 38.7 Corporate operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $203.1 million, a decrease of $29.8 million compared to 2010. The decrease was primarily driven by a gain on pension curtailment of $38.7 million, largely offset by higher pension and other benefits related expenses. The decrease was also due to a lower bad debt provision, as well as a decline in acquisition related and incentive compensation expenses, partially offset by an increase in information technology costs related to recent acquisitions and higher workers compensation expense. 37 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 AS COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 IncomefromOperations OperatingMargin Net Earnings(Loss) Attributable toRR DonnelleyCommonShareholders Net Earnings (Loss)Attributable toRR DonnelleyCommonShareholders perDiluted Share For the year ended December 31, 2009 $ 344.3 3.5 % $ (27.3 ) $ (0.13 ) 2010 restructuring and impairment charges (157.9 ) (1.6 %) (130.0 ) (0.62 ) 2009 restructuring and impairment charges 382.7 3.9 % 334.0 1.63 Acquisition related expenses (11.9 ) (0.1 %) (10.8 ) (0.06 ) 2010 Venezuela devaluation (4.5 ) (0.02 ) 2009 losses related to debt extinguishment 8.0 0.04 Write down of affordable housing investments 0.8 0.01 Income tax adjustments 15.6 0.08 Operations (1.7 ) (0.2 %) 35.9 0.13 For the year ended December 31, 2010 $ 555.5 5.5 % $ 221.7 $ 1.06 2010 restructuring and impairment charges: included $61.0 million and $26.9 million of non cash charges for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively; charges of $35.9 million for employee termination costs; $29.5 million of other restructuring costs, of which $13.6 million related to multi employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment; and $4.6 million for impairment of other long lived assets. 2009 restructuring and impairment charges: included $128.5 million of non cash charges for the impairment of goodwill; charges of $118.6 million, as discounted for future cash payments, for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, of which $117.2 million, $0.8 million and $0.6 million are reflected as other restructuring charges, impairment and employee terminations, respectively; $78.8 million for other employee termination costs, substantially all of which were associated with restructuring actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities; $32.1 million of other restructuring costs, primarily lease termination costs; and $24.7 million for impairment of long lived assets. Acquisition related expenses: included pre tax charges of $13.5 million ($11.8 million after tax) related to legal, accounting and other expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 associated with acquisitions completed or contemplated. For the year ended December 31, 2009, these pre tax charges were $1.6 million ($1.0 million after tax). 2010 Venezuela devaluation: currency devaluation in Venezuela resulted in a pre tax loss of $8.9 million ($8.1 million after tax) and an increase in loss attributable to noncontrolling interests of $3.6 million. 2009 losses related to debt extinguishment: included a $10.3 million pre tax loss on the repurchases of $466.4 million of the 5.625% senior notes due January 15, 2012 and $174.2 million of the 4.95% senior notes due May 15, 2010, as well as the reclassification of a pre tax loss of $2.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to loss on debt extinguishment due to the change in the hedged forecasted interest payments resulting from the repurchase of the 4.95% senior notes. Write down of affordable housing investments: Investment and other expense included a $1.1 million ($0.7 million after tax) and $2.4 million ($1.5 million after tax) write down of the Companys affordable housing investments in 2010 and 2009, respectively. 38 Table of Contents Income tax adjustments: included $15.6 million of income tax expense in 2009 due to the reorganization of entities within the International segment. Operations: reflected higher net sales in Asia, logistics, variable print and financial print, cost savings from restructuring actions and productivity efforts, higher pricing on by products recoveries and reduced depreciation and amortization and material costs, which were more than offset by price pressures, higher incentive compensation expense, LIFO inventory provisions and pension and postretirement expense. In addition, a lower effective tax rate due to the release of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets and lower interest expense due to effect of the interest rate swaps attributed to the increase in net earnings from operations. See further details in the review of operating results by segment that follows below. The following table shows the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, which reflects the results of acquired businesses from the relevant acquisition dates: 2010 2009 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Net sales Products $ 8,956.4 $ 8,925.4 $ 31.0 0.3 % Services 1,062.5 932.0 130.5 14.0 % Total net sales 10,018.9 9,857.4 161.5 1.6 % Products cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 6,857.8 6,789.8 68.0 1.0 % Services cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 785.1 673.1 112.0 16.6 % Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 1,123.4 1,088.5 34.9 3.2 % Restructuring and impairment charges 157.9 382.7 (224.8 ) (58.7 %) Depreciation and amortization 539.2 579.0 (39.8 ) (6.9 %) Total operating expenses 9,463.4 9,513.1 (49.7 ) (0.5 %) Income from operations $ 555.5 $ 344.3 $ 211.2 (61.3 %) Consolidated Net sales of products for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $31.0 million, or 0.3%, to $8,956.4 million versus the prior year. Net sales of products increased due to the increased sales from the production of mailings for the U.S. Census and higher volume in Asia. In addition, net sales increased due to the acquisition of Bowne and changes in foreign exchange rates of $8.5 million, or 0.1%. These increases were partially offset by decreases primarily attributable to continued price pressure and reductions in pass through paper sales in magazines, catalogs and retail inserts and books and directories. Net sales from services for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $130.5 million, or 14.0%, to $1,062.5 million versus the prior year. Net sales from services increased due to higher logistics volumes driven in part by growth in mail center and commingling services. In addition, net sales increased due to the acquisition of Bowne. Products cost of sales increased $68.0 million to $6,857.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the prior year, primarily due to the acquisition of Bowne, volume increases, higher LIFO inventory provisions and higher incentive compensation expense, partially offset by higher pricing on by products recoveries and lower material costs. Products cost of sales as a percentage of products net sales increased from 76.1% to 76.6%, reflecting the continued price pressures on net sales, higher LIFO inventory provisions and higher incentive compensation expense as a result of the Company achieving certain targets, partially offset by the benefits of continued productivity efforts. 39 Table of Contents Services cost of sales increased $112.0 million to $785.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the prior year, primarily due to logistics volume increases, higher incentive compensation expense and the acquisition of Bowne. Services cost of sales as a percentage of services net sales increased from 72.2% to 73.9%, reflecting the continued price pressures on net sales and higher incentive compensation expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $34.9 million to $1,123.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the prior year due to higher pension and postretirement expenses, the acquisition of Bowne and higher incentive compensation expense, partially offset by benefits achieved from restructuring activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated net sales increased from 11.0% to 11.2%, reflecting the acquisition of Bowne and higher incentive compensation expense. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded a net restructuring and impairment provision of $157.9 million compared to $382.7 million in 2009. In 2010, these charges included non cash pre tax charges of $61.0 million for the impairment of goodwill for the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. The goodwill impairment charge resulted from reductions in the estimated fair value of the forms and labels reporting unit, based on lower expectations for future revenue and cash flows due to continued impacts of electronic substitution on forms demand and increasing price pressure. In addition, the lower fair value reflects higher estimated spending on information technology and capital equipment, in part to better position this reporting unit for increased growth in labels volume as forms demand continues to decline. Impairment charges also included $26.9 million for the impairment of acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the Global Turnkey Solutions reporting unit within the International segment. The impairment of the customer relationship intangible asset primarily resulted from the termination of a customer contract. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded $35.9 million for workforce reductions of 1,458 employees (substantially all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2011) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations. These actions included the reorganization of certain operations within the Financial Print reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment due to the acquisition of Bowne. In addition, these actions included the closing of one Latin America manufacturing facility, one business process outsourcing manufacturing facility and one Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facility within the International segment. Further, continuing charges resulting from the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities in 2009 within the International segment were recorded in 2010. These actions also included the reorganization of certain operations within the magazine, catalog and retail insert and variable print reporting units and the closing of one forms and labels manufacturing facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. In addition, the Company recorded $4.6 million of impairment charges of other long lived assets and $29.5 million of other restructuring charges. The other restructuring costs included $13.6 million related to multi employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, as well as lease termination and other facility closure costs. For the year ended December 31 2009, these charges included a non cash pre tax charge of $128.5 million for the impairment of goodwill and $118.6 million, discounted for future cash payments, for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, which allowed the Company to withdraw from certain unprofitable operations in this area. In addition, these charges included $78.8 million for workforce reductions of 4,043 employees (all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2010) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations. These actions also included the closings of two catalog, magazine and retail insert manufacturing facilities, two book manufacturing facilities and one premedia facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the closing of one Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facility, one business process outsourcing facility, one Latin America manufacturing facility and one European manufacturing facility within the International segment. Additionally, the Company recorded $24.7 million of impairment charges for other long lived assets and $32.1 million of other restructuring costs, including lease termination and other facility closure costs. Depreciation and amortization decreased $39.8 million to $539.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to a declining trend in capital expenditures over recent years. Depreciation 40 Table of Contents and amortization included $99.3 million and $99.1 million of amortization of purchased intangibles related to customer relationships, patents, trade names, licenses and non compete agreements for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $555.5 million compared to $344.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of 61.3%. The increase was primarily driven by the lower restructuring and impairment charges in 2010, procurement savings and benefits achieved from restructuring activities, partially offset by cost inflation, price pressures, higher LIFO inventory provisions and higher incentive compensation expense. Net interest expense decreased by $12.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 versus the same period in 2009, primarily due to lower average outstanding borrowings and the effect of the interest rate swaps. In addition, 2009 was impacted by the accelerated amortization of debt issuance costs and unamortized discounts related to the repurchase of $640.6 million of senior notes. Net investment and other income (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $9.9 million and $3.6 million, respectively. In 2010, the Company recorded an $8.9 million loss related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency, of which $3.6 million increased the loss attributable to noncontrolling interests. The Company recorded a loss on debt extinguishment of $13.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. There was no loss on debt extinguishment for the year ended December 31, 2010. The 2009 loss was due to the repurchases of $640.6 million of the senior notes maturing in 2012 and 2010. As a result of the repurchase of the senior notes due May 15, 2010, the Company reclassified a loss of $2.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to loss on debt extinguishment in 2009 due to changes in the hedged forecasted interest payments. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 32.8% compared to 123.0% in 2009. The lower effective tax rate in 2010 reflects the release of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets due to the forecasted increase in net earnings for certain operations within the Latin America reporting unit. The higher rate in 2009 reflected a larger impact from the non deductible, non cash goodwill impairment charges and the partially deductible charges, discounted for future cash payments, of $118.6 million for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment. Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests was a loss of $4.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and income of $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The loss in 2010 as compared to income in 2009 primarily reflects the impact of the currency devaluation in Venezuela. Net earnings (loss) from operations attributable to RR Donnelley common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $221.7 million, or $1.06 per diluted share, compared to a loss of $27.3 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, for the year ended December 31, 2009. In addition to the factors described above, the per share results reflect an increase in weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 4.5 million primarily resulting from the Companys net loss in 2009 causing all outstanding options and unvested share awards to be anti dilutive, as well as increases in the average stock price and the issuance of shares related to the vesting of restricted stock units and stock options. 41 Table of Contents U.S. Print and Related Services The following tables summarize net sales, income from operations and certain items impacting comparability within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions, except percentages) Net sales $ 7,532.2 $ 7,437.0 Income from operations 638.9 489.2 Operating margin 8.5 % 6.6 % Restructuring and impairment charges 94.0 163.8 Reporting unit 2010Net Sales 2009Net Sales $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Magazines, catalogs and retail inserts $ 1,934.2 $ 2,050.4 $ (116.2 ) (5.7 %) Books and directories 1,425.6 1,462.0 (36.4 ) (2.5 %) Variable print(1) 1,233.4 1,174.8 58.6 5.0 % Forms and labels 822.4 829.5 (7.1 ) (0.9 %) Commercial(1) 588.0 576.6 11.4 2.0 % Logistics 598.4 495.1 103.3 20.9 % Financial print 556.5 471.5 85.0 18.0 % Office products 212.4 228.7 (16.3 ) (7.1 %) Premedia 161.3 148.4 12.9 8.7 % Total U.S. Print and Related Services $ 7,532.2 $ 7,437.0 $ 95.2 1.3 % The amounts included in the above table represent net sales by reporting unit and the descriptions above reflect the primary products or services provided by each. Included in these net sales amounts are sales of other products or services that may be produced within a reporting unit to meet customer needs and improve operating efficiency. (1) Certain prior year amounts were restated to conform to the Companys current reporting unit structure. Net sales for the U.S. Print and Related Services segment for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $7,532.2 million, an increase of $95.2 million, or 1.3%, compared to 2009. Net sales increased due to higher logistics volumes, increased sales from the production of mailings for the U.S. Census and the acquisition of Bowne. These increases were partially offset by reductions in pass through paper sales across the magazines, catalogs and retail inserts and books and directories reporting units and price declines across most reporting units. An analysis by reporting unit follows: Magazine, catalogs and retail inserts: Sales decreased due to reductions in pass through paper sales, lower prices and lower volume on contract renewals. Books and directories: Sales decreased primarily as a result of reductions in pass through paper sales, lower prices and lower sales in directories, partially offset by higher volume in educational books and related materials, as well as consumer books. Variable print: Sales increased due to the production of mailings for the U.S. Census and higher direct mailings from financial services and retail customers, partially offset by reduced print fulfillment and distribution volume from healthcare customers. Forms and labels: Sales decreased due to continued price pressure on both forms and labels and lower forms volume, partially offset by increased sales of labels. 42 Table of Contents Commercial: Sales increased due to higher volume from financial services and retail customers, partially offset by increased price pressure. Logistics: Sales increased primarily due to higher print and other logistics services volumes along with growth in mail center and commingling services, as well as higher fuel surcharges. Financial print: Sales increased due to increased capital market transactions and the acquisition of Bowne, partially offset by lower investment management and compliance volume. Office products: Sales decreased due to lower volume from large existing customers, customer losses and unfavorable pricing. Premedia: Sales increased due to volume from new customers and significantly higher volume at existing customers, partially offset by lower pricing. U.S. Print and Related Services segment income from operations increased $149.7 million mainly driven by lower restructuring and impairment charges, cost reductions resulting from restructuring actions and productivity initiatives, higher pricing on by products recoveries and higher volumes, partially offset by the price declines discussed above. Operating margins in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment increased from 6.6% for the year ended December 31, 2009 to 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2010 due to lower restructuring and impairment charges, the cost reductions discussed above and higher pricing on by products sales, which more than offset the impact of lower prices and higher incentive compensation expense. International The following tables summarize net sales, income from operations and certain items impacting comparability within the International segment: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions, except percentages) Net sales $ 2,486.7 $ 2,420.4 Income (loss) from operations 149.5 (36.0 ) Operating margin 6.0 % (1.5 %) Restructuring and impairment charges 50.6 210.7 Reporting unit 2010Net Sales 2009Net Sales $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Business process outsourcing $ 553.4 $ 603.3 $ (49.9 ) (8.3 %) Asia 550.6 436.2 114.4 26.2 % Latin America 457.9 467.9 (10.0 ) (2.1 %) Europe 401.8 388.7 13.1 3.4 % Global Turnkey Solutions 300.6 321.6 (21.0 ) (6.5 %) Canada 222.4 202.7 19.7 9.7 % Total International $ 2,486.7 $ 2,420.4 $ 66.3 2.7 % Net sales for the International segment for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $2,486.7 million, an increase of $66.3 million, or 2.7%, compared to 2009. Net sales increased due to the acquisition of Bowne and changes in foreign exchange rates of $7.4 million, or 0.3%. An analysis by reporting unit follows: Business process outsourcing: Sales decreased due to the lower volume resulting from the termination of a significant customer contract in 2009, partially offset by higher volume from a new customer contract. 43 Table of Contents Asia: Sales increased due to higher volume of books exported to the U.S. and Europe, higher local sales of catalogs and retail inserts and increased volume from technology manuals and packaging products, partially offset by lower prices on print packaging products. Latin America: Sales decreased due to the impact of the currency devaluation in Venezuela, disruptions caused by the Chilean earthquake and continued decreases in demand for business forms, particularly in Brazil, partially offset by changes in foreign exchange rates. Europe: Sales increased due to increased volume in technology manuals and other packaging products and changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by declining prices. Global Turnkey Solutions: Sales decreased due to unfavorable product mix from existing customers, partially offset by volume from new customers and changes in foreign exchange rates. Canada: Sales increased due to changes in foreign exchange rates and the acquisition of Bowne, partially offset by lower statement printing volume. Income (loss) from operations increased $185.5 million primarily due to lower restructuring and impairment charges and increased business in Asia, partially offset by lower prices. Operating margins increased from a loss of 1.5% for the year ended December 31, 2009 to 6.0% for the year ended December 31, 2010, of which 6.7 percentage points were due to lower restructuring and impairment charges. The remaining increase resulted from cost reductions driven by restructuring actions and productivity improvements and the termination of the significant customer contract in 2009, which more than offset lower prices, cost inflation and higher incentive compensation expense. Corporate The following table summarizes unallocated operating expenses and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as Corporate: Years EndedDecember 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Operating expenses $ 232.9 $ 108.9 Restructuring and impairment charges 13.3 8.2 Acquisition related expenses 13.5 1.6 Corporate operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $232.9 million, an increase of $124.0 million compared to 2009. The increase was driven by higher pension and postretirement benefit expense of $45.2 million, LIFO inventory provisions of $10.2 million in 2010 compared to a benefit of $17.6 million in 2009, higher acquisition related expenses of $11.9 million and higher restructuring and impairment charges of $5.1 million related to the integration of Bowne, partially offset by cost reductions from productivity initiatives and restructuring actions. RESTRUCTURING AND IMPAIRMENT CHARGES During 2011, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $667.8 million. These charges included $392.3 million for the impairment of goodwill within the commercial and forms and labels reporting units, reflected in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the Canada and Latin America reporting units in the International segment. In addition, these charges included $90.7 million primarily related to impairment of the acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the forms and labels reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, as well as $48.5 million of impairment charges, primarily for land, buildings, machinery and equipment and leasehold improvements associated with facility closings. These charges also included $76.7 million for workforce reductions of 2,899 employees (of whom 2,790 were terminated as of 44 Table of Contents December 31, 2011) associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations. These charges are primarily related to the closings of certain facilities and headcount reductions due to the Bowne acquisition. In addition, these charges related to the completed or announced closing of four books and directories manufacturing facilities and one commercial manufacturing facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. These actions also included the reorganization of certain operations within the books and directories and magazines, catalogs and retail inserts reporting units within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, as well as the reorganization of certain operations within the Latin America and Europe reporting units within the International segment. Additionally, the Company incurred other restructuring charges, including lease termination and other facility closure costs of $59.6 million, of which $15.1 million related to multi employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily due to the completed closing of three manufacturing facilities. 2011 EmployeeTerminations OtherCharges TotalRestructuring Impairment Total U.S. Print and Related Services $ 49.2 $ 52.5 $ 101.7 $ 403.4 $ 505.1 International 24.2 7.0 31.2 125.8 157.0 Corporate 3.3 0.1 3.4 2.3 5.7 $ 76.7 $ 59.6 $ 136.3 $ 531.5 $ 667.8 During 2010, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $157.9 million. These charges included $61.0 million for the impairment of goodwill within the forms and labels reporting unit in the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, $26.9 million for the impairment of acquired customer relationship intangible assets in the Global Turnkey Solutions reporting unit within the International segment and $4.6 million for the impairment of other long lived assets. Additionally, these charges included $35.9 million related to workforce reductions of 1,458 employees (substantially all of whom were terminated as of December 31, 2011), associated with actions resulting from reorganization of certain operations. These actions included the reorganization of certain operations within the Financial Print reporting unit within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment due to the acquisition of Bowne. In addition, these actions included the closing of one Latin America manufacturing facility, one business process outsourcing manufacturing facility and one Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facility within the International segment. Further, continuing charges resulting from the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities in 2009 within the International segment were recorded in 2010. These actions also included the reorganization of certain operations within the magazine, catalog and retail insert and variable print reporting units and the closing of one Forms and Labels manufacturing facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment. Finally, the Company recorded $29.5 million of other restructuring charges, of which $13.6 million related to multi employer pension plan partial withdrawal charges primarily attributable to two closed manufacturing facilities within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment, as well as lease termination and other facility closure costs. 2010 EmployeeTerminations OtherCharges TotalRestructuring Impairment Total U.S. Print and Related Services $ 5.9 $ 24.0 $ 29.9 $ 64.1 $ 94.0 International 17.9 4.5 22.4 28.2 50.6 Corporate 12.1 1.0 13.1 0.2 13.3 $ 35.9 $ 29.5 $ 65.4 $ 92.5 $ 157.9 During 2009, the Company recorded net restructuring and impairment charges of $382.7 million. These charges included $128.5 million for the impairment of goodwill and $24.7 million for the impairment of other long lived assets. In addition, the Company recorded charges, discounted for future cash payments, of $118.6 million for the termination of a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment, of which $117.2 million, $0.8 million and $0.6 million are reflected in other charges, impairment and employee terminations, respectively. Additionally, these charges included $78.8 million related to workforce reductions of 4,043 employees (all of whom were terminated as of 45 Table of Contents December 31, 2011), associated with actions resulting from the reorganization of certain operations and the exiting of certain business activities. These actions included the closings of two magazine, catalog and retail insert manufacturing facilities, two book manufacturing facilities and one premedia facility within the U.S. Print and Related Services segment and the closing of two Global Turnkey Solutions manufacturing facilities, one business process outsourcing facility, one Latin America manufacturing facility and one European manufacturing facility within the International segment. Finally, the Company incurred other restructuring charges of $32.1 million, including lease termination and other facility closure costs. 2009 EmployeeTerminations OtherCharges TotalRestructuring Impairment Total U.S. Print and Related Services $ 36.5 $ 19.2 $ 55.7 $ 108.1 $ 163.8 International 40.5 124.3 164.8 45.9 210.7 Corporate 2.4 5.8 8.2 8.2 $ 79.4 $ 149.3 $ 228.7 $ 154.0 $ 382.7 The Company made cash payments of $104.2 million, $158.1 million and $126.4 million for restructuring activities during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. $95.8 million of the $158.1 million paid in 2010 and $22.2 million of the $126.4 million paid in 2009 related to the terminated customer contract discussed previously. These outlays were all funded using cash generated from operations and cash on hand. In 2012, the Company expects to realize further cost savings associated with the restructuring actions taken in 2011 and 2010, primarily through reduced employee and facility costs. Restructuring actions have been and will continue to be taken in conjunction with the integration of Bowne, which will result in additional restructuring charges in 2012. In addition, the Company expects to identify other cost reduction opportunities within both current and newly acquired businesses and possibly take further actions in 2012, which may result in significant additional restructuring charges. These restructuring actions will be funded by cash generated from operations and cash on hand or, if necessary, the Company will fund these costs by utilizing its credit facilities. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following describes the Companys cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Cash Flows From Operating Activities Operating cash inflows are largely attributable to sales of the Companys products and services. Operating cash outflows are largely attributable to recurring expenditures for raw materials, labor, rent, interest, taxes and other operating activities. 2011 compared to 2010 Net cash provided by operating activities of operations was $946.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $752.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in operating cash flow reflected improvements in working capital management, including the benefits of process and systems integration efforts related to the Bowne acquisition, improved credit and collections efforts, inventory reductions and increased standardization of vendor payment terms. The increase in operating cash flow also reflected the $57.5 million payment in January 2010 related to the termination of a long term customer contract in 2009 and lower income tax payments. These increases were partially offset by higher incentive compensation payments in the first quarter of 2011 (for incentives earned in 2010) compared to 2010 (for incentives earned in 2009) due to better operating results in 2010 as compared to the operating results of 2009. Additionally, the payments for incentives earned in 2009 were deferred equally over four years, while the incentives earned in 2010 were fully paid in 2011. Further decreases were due to restructuring and pension payments related to the Bowne acquisition 46 Table of Contents and higher interest payments primarily related to the June 2010 issuance of $400.0 million of long term senior notes. Higher interest payments were also due to increased borrowings under the Credit Agreement in 2011 used to finance the Companys ASR, as well as higher interest rates and commitment fees related to the rating actions of credit rating agencies, as compared to the Companys borrowings under the previous revolving credit facility (previous Facility) in 2010. 2010 compared to 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities of operations was $752.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $1,425.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in operating cash flow reflected the $515.8 million benefit from reductions in net working capital driven by volume declines and efficiency improvement in 2009, a non recurring tax refund of $164.1 million in 2009, continued price pressures on net sales in 2010, a 2009 $57.5 million long term customer contract payment and incentive compensation payments in the first quarter of 2010 compared to no such payments in 2009. These decreases were partially offset by higher operating earnings in 2010 driven by cost reductions from productivity and restructuring actions and a $22.2 million payment in the third quarter of 2009 related to the termination of the long term customer contract in 2009. Cash Flows From Investing Activities 2011 compared to 2010 Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $375.4 million compared to $674.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Net cash used for acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2011 was $142.4 million for the acquisitions of Helium, Stratus, LibreDigital, Journalism Online, Genesis and Sequence, compared to $439.8 million for the acquisitions of Bowne, Nimblefish and 8touches during the year ended December 31, 2010. The Company also used $7.0 million to purchase a long term investment during the year ended December 31, 2011. During 2010, the Company purchased long term investments, as well as short term deposits that were subsequently liquidated, for a net payment of $16.8 million. Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $250.9 million, an increase of $21.5 million compared to 2010. The Company continues to fund capital expenditures primarily through cash provided by operations. 2010 compared to 2009 Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $674.5 million compared to $260.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Net cash used for 2010 acquisitions was $439.8 million and the acquisitions of PROSA and Prospectus during 2009 was $26.6 million. The Company used $17.0 million to purchase long term investments and $14.7 million to purchase short term deposits during 2010. The short term term deposits were subsequently liquidated for $14.9 million during 2010. The Company received proceeds from the sale of investments and other assets of $11.2 million during 2010 compared to $2.2 million during 2009. Capital expenditures were $229.4 million in 2010, an increase of $34.4 million compared to 2009. Finally, in 2009, the Company transferred $43.7 million to restricted cash within other noncurrent assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to a customer contract termination within the business process outsourcing reporting unit and received transfers from restricted cash of $6.2 million. Cash Flows From Financing Activities 2011 compared to 2010 Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $651.0 million compared to $58.0 million in 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of $600.0 million of long term senior notes and paid $500.0 million for the acquisition of the Companys common stock under its accelerated share repurchase, which was entered into during the second 47 Table of Contents quarter of 2011. The Company also paid a total of $493.4 million to repurchase senior notes in the aggregate principal amount of $427.8 million, maturing February 1, 2019, January 15, 2017 and May 15, 2015. These increases were partially offset by proceeds of $65.0 million received from net borrowings under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2011, as compared to $120.0 million for 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company received proceeds of $400.0 million from the issuance of long term senior notes, paid $325.7 million for the May 15, 2010 maturity of senior notes and repaid $27.3 million of debt assumed as part of the 2010 acquisitions. 2010 compared to 2009 Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $58.0 million compared to $1,028.0 million in 2009. During 2010, Company received proceeds of $400.0 million from the issuance of long term senior notes which were partly used to repay borrowings on the previous Facility. Proceeds from the previous Facility borrowings were used, along with cash on hand, to pay the May 15, 2010 maturity of senior notes of $325.7 million. In addition, the Company repaid $25.4 million and $1.9 million of debt assumed as part of the Bowne and Nimblefish acquisitions, respectively. During 2009, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of $750.0 million of long term senior notes and repaid $400.0 million in senior notes that matured April 1, 2009 and repurchased $466.4 million and $174.2 million of senior notes maturing January 15, 2012 and May 15, 2010, respectively. Net borrowings under the Credit Agreement and previous Facility were $120.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Net repayments under the previous Facility were $200.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The net change in other short term debt was a cash outflow of $305.6 million during 2009 primarily due to the pay down of commercial paper. Other The Companys cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside of the United States. Most of the amounts held outside of the United States could be repatriated to the United States but, under current law, would be subject to United States federal income taxes and local country taxes. Repatriation of some foreign balances is restricted by local laws. Included in cash and cash equivalents of $449.7 million at December 31, 2011 were short term investments in the amount of $7.8 million, which primarily consist of certificate and short term deposits and money market funds. These investments are with institutions with sound credit ratings and are believed to be highly liquid. Dividends Cash dividends paid to shareholders totaled $205.2 million, $214.4 million and $213.6 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company has consistently paid a dividend since becoming a public company in 1956 and currently has no plans to cease or reduce its dividend payments in 2012. The Company believes it will continue to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to pay future dividends that may be approved by the Companys Board of Directors. On January 13, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.26 per common share, payable on March 1, 2012 to shareholders of record on January 27, 2012. 48 Table of Contents Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commitments and Contingencies The following table quantifies the Companys future contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011: Payments Due In Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter (in millions) Debt $ 3,647.5 $ 243.7 $ 0.9 $ 600.9 $ 404.0 $ 350.6 $ 2,047.4 Interest due on debt 1,544.6 229.4 225.5 217.8 194.1 152.9 524.9 Operating leases(1) 585.1 147.6 111.5 87.3 64.9 45.9 127.9 Pension and postretirement contributions 220.8 220.8 Outsourced services 184.6 151.3 29.0 4.2 0.1 Incentive compensation 107.4 86.7 20.7 Deferred compensation 91.4 6.6 9.4 2.4 2.3 2.1 68.6 Other(2) 164.0 128.2 7.0 6.9 2.0 2.0 17.9 Total as of December 31, 2011 $ 6,545.4 $ 1,214.3 $ 404.0 $ 919.5 $ 667.4 $ 553.5 $ 2,786.7 (1) Operating leases include obligations to landlords. (2) Other represents contractual obligations for purchases of property, plant and equipment ($41.9 million), estimated defined contribution Company match ($33.2 million), multi employer pension withdrawal obligations ($27.9 million), employee restructuring related severance payments ($27.2 million), contingent consideration ($10.6 million) and purchases of natural gas ($10.1 million). The contractual obligation for the estimated defined contribution Company match includes the 2012 estimated payments and does not include the obligations for subsequent periods, as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount. Additionally, the Company has included $13.1 million of uncertain tax liabilities that are classified as current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as payments due in 2012. Excluded from the table are $63.3 million of uncertain tax liabilities, as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or timing of settlement. The contractual obligations included above for pension and postretirement plans include the 2012 estimated payments and do not include the obligations for subsequent periods, as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount. The minimum annual contributions to the multi employer pension plans are determined by the terms and conditions of each plan to which the Company contributes. Although the Company cannot currently estimate the amount of multi employer pension plan contributions that will be required for 2012, the Company expects contributions to be consistent with those of prior years. As of December 31, 2011, the Company is authorized under the terms of its share repurchase program to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of the Companys common stock through December 31, 2012, of which the Company repurchased $500 million during the year ended December 31, 2011 as part of the ASR. The repurchase authorizations do not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of common stock or adopt any particular method of repurchase and may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time at the Companys discretion. LIQUIDITY The Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to support its ongoing operations and to invest in future growth to create value for its shareholders. Operating cash flows are the Companys primary source of liquidity and are expected to be used for, among other things, interest and principal on the Companys debt obligations, capital expenditures as necessary to support productivity improvement and growth, future common stock or debt repurchases based upon market conditions, completion of restructuring programs, dividend payments that may be approved by the Board of Directors and acquisitions. 49 Table of Contents Cash and cash equivalents of $449.7 million as of December 31, 2011 included $51.5 million in the U.S. and $398.2 million at international locations, most of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxes and local country taxes if repatriated to the U.S. In addition, repatriation of some foreign cash is further restricted by local laws. The Company has recognized deferred tax liabilities of $3.0 million as of December 31, 2011, related to certain foreign earnings which are not considered to be permanently reinvested. The Company maintains a cash pooling structure that enables participating international locations to draw on the Companys overseas cash resources to meet local liquidity needs. The foreign cash balances may be loaned to U.S. operating entities on a temporary basis in order to reduce the Companys short term borrowing costs or for other purposes. The Company has a $1.75 billion revolving Credit Agreement which expires December 17, 2013, subject to a possible one year extension if agreed to by the lending institutions. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate dependent on the Companys credit ratings at the time of borrowing and will be calculated according to a base or Eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin. The Company pays annual commitment fees at rates dependent on the Companys credit ratings. The Credit Agreement can be used for general corporate purposes, including letters of credit. The Credit Agreement is subject to a number of financial covenants that, in part, may limit the use of proceeds, and the ability of the Company to create liens on assets, incur subsidiary debt, engage in mergers and consolidations, or dispose of assets. The financial covenants require a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio, both to be computed on a pro forma basis as defined in the Credit Agreement. Based on the Companys results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 and existing term debt structure, the Company could utilize an additional $1.4 billion of the $1.75 billion Credit Agreement and not be in violation of the maximum leverage ratio, as shown in the table below. However, the Company does not expect the reduction in availability on the Credit Agreement to impact its ability to meet its liquidity requirements. As of December 31, 2011, there were $65.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement. The availability under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2011 is shown in the following table: December 31, 2011 (in millions) Availability Committed credit facility $ 1,750.0 Availability reduction from covenants 332.3 1,417.7 Usage Borrowings under the committed credit facility 65.0 Current availability at December 31, 2011 $ 1,352.7 The Company was in compliance with its debt covenants as of December 31, 2011, and expects to remain in compliance based on managements estimates of operating and financial results for 2012 and the foreseeable future. In addition, the Company met all the conditions required to borrow under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2011 and management expects the Company to continue to meet the applicable borrowing conditions. The Company also has $151.8 million in credit facilities outside of the U.S., most of which are uncommitted. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $60.9 million in outstanding letters of credit. The failure of a financial institution supporting the Credit Agreement would reduce the size of our committed facility unless a replacement institution was added. Currently, the Credit Agreement is supported by twenty one U.S. and international financial institutions. On May 4, 2011, Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) lowered the Companys long term corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings from BBB with a negative outlook to BBB and placed the Company on CreditWatch with negative implications. Subsequently, on May 16, 2011, S&P lowered the Companys long term corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings from BBB to BB+ with a stable outlook and the 50 Table of Contents Companys short term credit rating from A 3 to B 1. On November 29, 2011, S&P reaffirmed the Companys long term corporate credit and senior unsecured debt rating at BB+ but placed the Companys ratings on a negative outlook, which was reaffirmed by S&P on January 18, 2012. On May 4, 2011, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) placed the Companys Baa3 credit rating with a stable outlook on review for possible downgrade. Subsequently on May 16, 2011, Moodys lowered the Companys senior unsecured debt ratings from Baa3 to Ba1 with a stable outlook. On January 20, 2012, Moodys reaffirmed the Companys long term and senior unsecured debt rating, but placed the Companys ratings on a negative outlook. As a result of the downgrades by the rating agencies, the interest rate on the Companys 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019 was increased to 11.75%. Additionally, the downgrades in ratings increased annual commitment fees and interest rates incurred on borrowings under the Credit Agreement. Acquisitions During the three months ended December 31, 2011, the Company paid $29.0 million, net of cash acquired, to purchase Stratus. During the three months ended September 30, 2011, the Company paid $37.9 million, net of cash acquired, to purchase LibreDigital, Genesis and Sequence. During the three months ended June 30, 2011, the Company paid $55.9 million, net of cash acquired, to purchase the remaining equity of Helium. Additionally, during the three months ended March 31, 2011, the Company paid $19.6 million, net of cash acquired, to purchase Journalism Online. The Company financed all of these acquisitions with cash on hand. During the three months ended December 31, 2010, the Company paid $485.6 million to purchase Bowne, Nimblefish and 8touches. The Company financed all of these acquisitions with cash on hand and through borrowings under the previous Facility. During the three months ended March 31, 2009, the Company paid $24.0 million to purchase PROSA. The Company financed the acquisition with cash on hand. Debt Issuances On June 1, 2011, the Company issued $600.0 million of 7.25% senior notes due May 15, 2018. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year, commencing on November 15, 2011. The net proceeds from the offering were used to repurchase an initial $216.2 million of the 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019, $100 million of the 6.125% senior notes due January 15, 2017 and $100 million of the 5.50% senior notes due May 15, 2015. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes and to repay outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement. On September 28, 2011, the Company repurchased an additional $11.6 million of the 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019. On June 21, 2010, the Company issued $400 million of 7.625% senior notes due June 15, 2020. The Company used the net proceeds to repay borrowings under the previous Facility that were drawn on May 13, 2010 and used, together with cash on hand, to repay $325.7 million of senior notes due May 15, 2010. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. On August 26, 2009, the Company issued $350 million of 8.60% senior notes due August 15, 2016. The Company used the net proceeds, along with borrowings under the previous Facility and cash on hand, to repurchase $466.4 million of the 5.625% senior notes due January 15, 2012 and $174.2 million of the 4.95% senior notes due May 15, 2010. On January 14, 2009, the Company issued $400 million of 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019. The Company used the net proceeds to pay down commercial paper and borrowings under the previous Facility. On May 17, 2011, the interest rate on the 11.25% senior notes due February 1, 2019 was increased to 11.75%, as a result of downgrades in the ratings below investment grade. The Company borrowed $400.0 million in March 2009 under the previous Facility to repay the April 1, 2009 maturity of $400 million in senior notes. During the second quarter 2009, the Company repaid the $400 million of previous Facility borrowings. 51 Table of Contents Other Significant Events On May 3, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a program that authorizes the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of the Companys common stock through December 31, 2012 and terminated its existing authorization of October 29, 2008 for the repurchase of up to 10 million shares. Share repurchases under the program may be made from time to time through a variety of methods as determined by the Companys management. The repurchase authorizations do not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of common stock or adopt any particular method of repurchase and may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time at the Companys discretion. As part of the share repurchase program, on May 5, 2011, the Company entered into an ASR with an investment bank under which the Company agreed to repurchase $500 million of its common stock. On May 10, 2011, the Company paid the $500 million purchase price and received an initial delivery of 19.9 million shares from the investment bank. The shares delivered were subject to a 20%, or $100.0 million holdback, which resulted in the Company receiving an additional 9.3 million shares on November 17, 2011. The additional shares received were calculated based upon the $17.13 volume weighted average price of the Companys common stock over an averaging period, subject to a discount agreed upon with the investment bank. The averaging period ended on November 14, 2011. In the third quarter of 2009, the Company terminated a significant long term customer contract in the business process outsourcing reporting unit within the International segment. The Company paid approximately $118.0 million in related restructuring costs, of which $22.2 million was paid in the third quarter of 2009, $57.5 million was paid in January 2010 and $38.3 million was paid in December 2010. Risk Management The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 81.3% of the Companys outstanding term debt was comprised of fixed rate debt. At December 31, 2011, the Companys exposure to rate fluctuations on variable interest borrowings was $686.7 million, including $600.0 million notional value of interest rate swap agreements (See Note 14, Derivatives, to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and $86.7 million in borrowings under the Credit Agreement, international credit facilities and other long term debt. The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited in most countries because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent that borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit, the Company is exposed to currency risk and may enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the aggregate notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts was approximately $78.3 million and $100.9 million, respectively, (See Note 14, Derivatives, to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Net unrealized losses from these foreign exchange contracts were less than $0.1 million at December 31, 2011 and net unrealized gains were $0.2 million at December 31, 2010. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The Company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. Using this sensitivity analysis, such changes would not have a material effect on interest income or expense and cash flows and would change the fair values of fixed rate debt at December 31, 2011 and 2010 by approximately $122.9 million and $101.8 million, respectively. 52 Table of Contents OTHER INFORMATION Environmental, Health and Safety For a discussion of certain environmental, health and safety issues involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Litigation and Contingent Liabilities For a discussion of certain litigation involving the Company, see Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. New Accounting Pronouncements and Pending Accounting Standards During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company adopted various accounting standards. See Note 20, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the accounting standards adopted during 2011. Pending standards and their estimated effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements are described in Note 20, New Accounting Pronouncements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable rate debt and price risk on its fixed rate debt. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 81.3% of the Companys outstanding term debt was comprised of fixed rate debt. At December 31, 2011, the Companys exposure to rate fluctuations on variable interest borrowings was $686.7 million, including $600.0 million notional value of interest rate swap agreements (See Note 14, Derivatives, to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and $86.7 million in borrowings under the Credit Agreement, international credit facilities and other long term debt. The Company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. Using this sensitivity analysis, such changes would not have a material effect on interest income or expense and cash flows and would change the fair values of fixed rate debt at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 by approximately $122.9 million and $101.8 million, respectively. The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited in most countries because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. Although operating in local currencies may limit the impact of currency rate fluctuations on the operating results of the Companys non U.S. subsidiaries, fluctuations in such rates may affect the translation of these results into the Companys consolidated financial statements. To the extent borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the operating unit, the Company is exposed to currency risk and may enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the aggregate notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts was approximately $78.3 million and $100.9 million, respectively. Credit Risk The Company is exposed to credit risk on accounts receivable balances. This risk is mitigated due to the Companys large, diverse customer base, dispersed over various geographic regions and industrial sectors. No single customer comprised more than 10% of the Companys consolidated net sales in 2011, 2010 or 2009. The Company maintains provisions for potential credit losses and any such losses to date have normally been within 53 Table of Contents the Companys expectations. The Company evaluates the solvency of its customers on an ongoing basis to determine if additional allowances for doubtful accounts need to be recorded, and additional economic disruptions or a further slowdown in the economy could result in significant additional charges. Commodities The primary raw materials used by the Company are paper and ink. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company has incorporated price adjustment clauses in certain sales contracts. Management believes a hypothetical 10% change in the price of paper and other raw materials would not have a significant effect on the Companys consolidated annual results of operations or cash flows because these costs are generally passed through to its customers. 
 
