FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20030127145108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
================================================================================ SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 -------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 -------------------------- Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 27, 2003 -------------------------- AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) -------------------------- New York 1-7657 13-4922250 - ----------------------------- ------------------------ ------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation or Identification No.) organization) 200 Vesey Street, World Financial Center New York, New York 10285 ---------------------------------------- ---------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 640-2000 --------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) ================================================================================
Item 5. Other Events. On January 27, 2003, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its 2002 fourth quarter and full year earnings and distributed a 2002 Fourth Quarter/Full Year Earnings Supplement. Such press release is filed herein as Exhibit 99.1, and such Earnings Supplement is filed herein as Exhibit 99.2. Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits 99.1 Press release of American Express Company announcing its 2002 fourth quarter and full year earnings, dated January 27, 2003. 99.2 2002 Fourth Quarter/Full Year Earnings Supplement of American Express Company.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY (REGISTRANT) By /s/ Stephen P. Norman Name: Stephen P. Norman Title: Secretary DATE: January 27, 2003
EXHIBIT INDEX Item No. Description - --------- ----------- 99.1 Press release of American Express Company announcing its 2002 fourth quarter and full year earnings, dated January 27, 2003. 99.2 2002 Fourth Quarter/Full Year Earnings Supplement of American Express Company.

EXHIBIT 99.1 News Release News Release News Release News [LOGO] Contacts: Molly Faust Michael J. O'Neill 212/640-0624 212/640-5951 molly.faust@aexp.com mike.o'neill@aexp.com FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- AMERICAN EXPRESS 2002 NET INCOME RISES TO $2.67 BILLION DRIVEN BY RECORD RESULTS AT TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES Results Reflect Solid Growth in Card Businesses, Higher Revenues, Lower Expenses and Strong Credit Quality New York - January 27, 2003 - AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY today reported net income of $2.67 billion for 2002, up from $1.31 billion a year ago. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) rose to $2.01, up from $0.98 a year ago. The company's return on equity was 20.6 percent. Revenues on a GAAP basis totaled $23.8 billion, up five percent from $22.6 billion a year ago. This increase was due primarily to higher spending and borrowing on American Express cards, as well as higher income from the investment portfolio of American Express Financial Advisors (AEFA). These items were partially offset by a decline in asset management fees from AEFA clients and lower travel commissions and fees. Consolidated expenses on a GAAP basis totaled $20.1 billion, down four percent from $21.0 billion a year ago. This decrease reflects reduced staffing levels and the benefit of re-engineering initiatives. It also reflects lower funding costs and a decline in the total provision for losses, which resulted from strong overall credit quality. These items were partially offset by the higher costs of cardmember loyalty programs and increased business building activities. Net income for the year-ago period included three significant items: a restructuring charge of $631 million ($411 million after-tax); one-time costs and waived customer fees of $98 million ($65 million after-tax) resulting from the September 11th terrorist attacks; and a charge of $1.01 billion ($669 million after-tax) reflecting investment losses in the high-yield portfolio at AEFA. "Despite weakness in the economy and financial markets, we delivered strong results for both the year and the fourth quarter," said Kenneth I. Chenault, Chairman and CEO, American Express Company. "Net income was in line with our mid-year outlook as Travel Related Services (TRS) generated record earnings, AEFA made progress in a difficult -1-
market and the Bank produced excellent results. As planned, we substantially increased spending on marketing and product development, particularly in the card businesses during the second half of the year. This decision to invest for long-term growth rather than deliver additional short-term earnings is already producing the expected results. We generated strong growth in cardmember spending, higher loan balances and added more than 900,000 new cards in force during the fourth quarter. The flexibility to redirect substantial resources to business building activities reflects our progress on re-engineering, along with the benefit of lower funding costs and strong credit quality. "Overall, we have adapted very well to a difficult environment and we are entering 2003 with strong momentum. Nonetheless, we start this year with the same cautious views that we held in 2002 and expect continued uncertainty in both the economy and financial markets." The overall increase in revenues for 2002 reflected two percent growth at TRS, 17 percent growth at AEFA, and 15 percent growth at American Express Bank (AEB). More specifically, o Discount revenue increased three percent due to higher cardmember spending. o Interest and dividends rose 40 percent from depressed levels a year ago due to the high-yield losses at AEFA. o Net finance charge revenue from the cardmember lending portfolio increased four percent on higher loan balances and improved spreads. o Securitization income rose 35 percent, reflecting a higher level of securitized lending balances, and improved spreads for this portfolio.
These items were partially offset by: o A seven percent decline in management and distribution fees earned from the assets managed for AEFA clients. o An eight percent decrease in travel commissions and fees. The overall decline in expenses for 2002 reflected a five percent decrease at TRS, one percent decrease at AEFA, and six percent decrease at AEB. More specifically, the overall decline reflected: o A three percent decrease in total provision for losses. Credit quality remained strong in TRS' charge and credit card portfolios. The provision for charge card losses declined 20 percent and the lending provision increased four percent, reflecting overall growth in loans outstanding and continued uncertainty in the economic environment. o A 28 percent decline in interest expense. This decline reflected a 31 percent decline in charge card interest expense. o A nine percent decrease in human resources expense. This decrease reflected lower staffing levels and re-engineering initiatives. These items were partially offset by: o A 19 percent increase in marketing and promotion expenses, including an 18 percent increase at TRS. o A 10 percent increase in other operating expenses, partially from increased loyalty program costs and the impact of outsourcing agreements. Due to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, effective January 1, 2002, no goodwill amortization occurred in 2002. In 2001, goodwill amortization reduced pre-tax income by $106 million ($82 million after-tax), or $0.06 per share. -2-
For the fourth quarter, American Express reported net income of $683 million, up from $297 million a year ago. EPS rose to $0.52, up from $0.22 last year. Net income for the year-ago period included a restructuring charge of $279 million ($179 million after-tax), which was adjusted $14 million ($9 million after-tax) in 2002. TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES (TRS) reported record net income for 2002 of $2.14 billion, up 46 percent from $1.46 billion a year ago. Last year's results included $414 million ($267 million after-tax) of the restructuring charge noted earlier. Also included in the year-ago results were $87 million ($57 million after-tax) of one-time costs and waived customer fees resulting from the September 11th terrorist attacks. On a GAAP basis, TRS results for 2002 included net cardmember lending securitization gains of $136 million ($88 million after-tax) compared with gains of $155 million ($101 million after-tax) in 2001. The following discussion of full-year results presents TRS segment results on a "managed basis," as if there had been no cardmember lending securitization transactions. This is the basis used by management to evaluate operations and is consistent with industry practice. For further information about managed basis and reconciliation of GAAP and managed TRS information, see the "Managed Basis" section below. The AEFA, AEB and Corporate and Other sections below are presented on a GAAP basis. Total net revenues increased three percent from a year ago, reflecting higher spending and borrowing on American Express cards. Higher cardmember spending contributed to a three percent rise in discount revenue. This reflected higher billings in the retail and everyday spending categories as well as the continued benefit of rewards programs. Net finance charge revenue from the lending portfolio increased -3-
16 percent due to wider yields and loan growth. Partially offsetting these revenue increases were a decline in travel commissions and fees and lower Travelers Cheque investment income. Total expenses for the year decreased three percent. The total provision for losses declined two percent reflecting strong overall credit quality. More specifically, the provision for charge card losses decreased, reflecting improved credit quality, while the lending provision increased, reflecting higher volumes and continued uncertainty in the economic environment. Charge card interest expense decreased 33 percent largely due to lower funding costs. Human resources expense declined 12 percent primarily as a result of lower staffing levels, outsourcing and other cost containment efforts. As noted earlier, the benefit from re-engineering, lower funding costs and strong credit quality provided the resources to significantly increase business building activities. Marketing and promotion expenses rose 20 percent from year-ago levels, reflecting expanded card acquisition programs and the introduction of new rewards-oriented card products during the year. Other operating expenses increased due in part to higher cardmember loyalty program costs and the impact of technology outsourcing, which transferred certain costs that were included previously in human resources expense. TRS reported record fourth quarter net income of $550 million, up significantly from $170 million a year ago. Year-ago results included $219 million ($140 million after-tax) of the restructuring charge noted earlier. On both a GAAP and managed basis, the increase reflects improved business volumes, as well as a decrease in provision for losses and lower funding costs. These factors were partially offset by an increase in marketing and promotion expense. -4-
AMERICAN EXPRESS FINANCIAL ADVISORS (AEFA) reported net income for 2002 of $632 million, up significantly from $52 million a year ago. Total revenues increased 17 percent. Last year's net income included $107 million ($70 million after-tax) of the restructuring charges noted earlier and $11 million ($8 million after-tax) of one-time costs resulting from the September 11th terrorist attacks ($7 million pre-tax, $4 million after-tax, of which was reversed in 2002). In addition, last year's net income and revenue included the effect of the $1,008 million loss ($669 million after-tax) from the write down and sale of certain high-yield securities. Assets under management and management fees declined from year-ago levels. The decline reflected continued weakness in equity markets and, to a lesser extent, outflows of managed assets. Human resources expense decreased four percent as the benefits of re-engineering and cost controls more than offset the rise in sales-related compensation. Other operating expenses increased 19 percent compared with last year largely due to the adjustments of Deferred Acquisition Costs, technology outsourcing, which transferred certain costs that were previously included in human resources expense, as well as a higher minority interest expense related to a premium deposits joint venture with American Express Bank. AEFA reported fourth quarter net income of $153 million, down six percent from $163 million. This decrease reflects lower assets under management and management fees. Included in the year-ago results is $45 million ($29 million after-tax) related to the restructuring charge noted earlier. AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK (AEB) reported net income for 2002 of $80 million compared with a net loss of $13 million a year ago. Included in year-ago results was $96 million ($65 million after-tax) of the restructuring charge noted earlier. -5-
AEB's results continued to benefit from lower funding costs and lower operating expenses as a result of re-engineering efforts. These benefits were partially offset by a higher provision for losses, primarily due to higher write-offs in the consumer lending portfolio. AEB reported fourth quarter 2002 net income of $24 million compared with $9 million a year ago. Included in the year-ago results was a restructuring charge of $12 million ($8 million after-tax) noted earlier. CORPORATE AND OTHER reported net expenses of $176 million, compared with $187 million a year ago. Included in results for 2002 were the final preferred stock dividends from Lehman Brothers, totaling $69 million ($59 million after-tax), compared with $46 million ($39 million after-tax) in 2001. In both years these dividends were offset by expenses related to business building initiatives. Included in 2001 results are $14 million ($9 million after-tax) of the restructuring charges noted earlier. Corporate and Other reported fourth quarter 2002 net expenses of $44 million, compared with $45 million a year ago. Included in 2001 fourth quarter results was a restructuring charge of $3 million ($2 million after-tax). -6-
MANAGED BASIS- TRS Managed basis means the presentation assumes there have been no securitization transactions, i.e. all securitized cardmember loans and related income effects are reflected in the company's balance sheet and income statement, respectively. The company presents TRS information on a managed basis because that is the way the company's management views and manages the business. The reason management uses this approach -- and why it is important to investors - -- is because a full picture of trends in the company's cardmember lending business can only be derived by evaluating the performance of both securitized and non-securitized cardmember loans. Asset securitization is just one of several ways for the company to fund cardmember loans. Use of a managed basis presentation, including non-securitized and securitized cardmember loans, presents a more accurate picture of the key dynamics of the cardmember lending business, avoiding distortions due to the mix of funding sources at any particular point in time. For example, irrespective of the funding mix, it is important for management and investors to see metrics, such as changes in delinquencies and write-off rates, for the entire cardmember lending portfolio because they are more representative of the economics of the aggregate cardmember relationships and ongoing business performance and trends over time. It is also important for investors to see the overall growth of cardmember loans and related revenue and changes in market share, which are all significant metrics in evaluating the company's performance and which can only be properly assessed when all non-securitized and securitized cardmember loans are viewed on a managed basis. The Consolidated Section of this press release and attachments provide the GAAP presentation for items described on a managed basis. -7-
The following tables reconcile the GAAP basis TRS income statements to the managed basis information. Travel Related Services Selected Financial Information (Unaudited) Years Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) Preliminary (A) The disaster recovery charge excludes approximately $8 million of waived finance charges and late fees recognized in the third quarter 2001. Note: Certain prior period amounts have been restated to conform to current year presentation of securitization income. -8-
Travel Related Services Selected Financial Information (Unaudited) Quarters Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) Preliminary Note: Certain prior period amounts have been restated to conform to current year presentation of securitization income. # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. -9-
American Express Company (www.americanexpress.com), founded in 1850, is a global travel, financial and network services provider. *** Note: The 2002 Fourth Quarter/Full Year Earnings Supplement, as well as CFO Gary Crittenden's presentation from the investor conference call referred to below, will be available today on the American Express web site at http://ir.americanexpress.com. An investor conference call to discuss fourth quarter/full year earnings results, operating performance and other topics that may be raised during the discussion will be held at 5:00 p.m. (ET) today. Live audio of the conference call will be accessible to the general public on the American Express web site at http://ir.americanexpress.com. A replay of the conference call also will be available today at the same web site address. *** This release includes forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "optimistic," "intend," "plan," "aim," "will," "should," "could," "likely," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the company's ability to successfully implement a business model that allows for significant earnings growth based on revenue growth that is lower than historical levels, including the ability to improve its operating expense to revenue ratio both in the short-term and over time, which will depend in part on the effectiveness of re-engineering and other cost control initiatives, as well as factors impacting the company's revenues; the company's ability to grow its business and meet or exceed its return on equity target by reinvesting approximately 35 percent of annually-generated capital, and returning approximately 65 percent of such capital to shareholders, over time, which will depend on the company's ability to manage its capital needs and the effect of business mix, acquisitions and rating agency requirements; the ability to increase investment spending, which will depend in part on the equity markets and other factors affecting revenues, and the ability to capitalize on such investments to improve business metrics; fluctuation in the equity markets, which can affect the amount and types of investment products sold by AEFA, the market value of its managed assets, management and distribution fees received based on those assets and the amount of amortization of DAC; potential deterioration in AEFA's high-yield and other investments, which could result in further losses in AEFA's investment portfolio; the ability of AEFA to sell certain high-yield investments at expected values and within anticipated timeframes and to maintain its high-yield portfolio at certain levels in the future; developments relating to AEFA's platform structure for financial advisors, including the ability to increase advisor productivity, increase the growth of productive new advisors and create efficiencies in the infrastructure; AEFA's ability to roll out new and attractive products in a timely manner and effectively manage the economics in selling a growing volume of non-proprietary products; investment performance in AEFA's businesses; the success, timeliness and financial impact, including costs, cost savings and other benefits, of re-engineering initiatives being implemented or considered by the company, including cost management, structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities and operations consolidation, outsourcing (including, among others, technologies operations), relocating certain functions to lower cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the Internet to save costs, the scale-back of corporate lending in certain regions, and planned staff reductions relating to certain of such re-engineering actions; the ability to control and manage operating, infrastructure, advertising and promotion and other expenses as business expands or changes, including balancing the need for longer-term investment spending; the impact on the company's businesses and uncertainty created by the September 11th terrorist attacks, and the potential negative effect on the company's businesses and infrastructure, including information technology systems, of any such attacks or disaster in the future; the impact on the company's businesses resulting from a war with Iraq; the company's ability to recover under its insurance policies for losses resulting from the September 11th terrorist attacks; consumer and business spending on the company's travel related services products, particularly credit and charge cards and growth in card lending balances, which depend in part on the ability to issue new and enhanced card products and increase revenues from such products, attract new Cardholders, capture a greater share of existing Cardholders' spending, sustain premium discount rates, increase merchant coverage, retain Cardmembers after low introductory lending rates have expired, and expand the global network services business; the ability to execute the company's global corporate services strategy, including greater penetration of middle market companies, increasing capture of non-T&E spending through greater use of the company's purchasing card and other means, and further globalizing business capabilities; the ability to manage and expand Cardmember benefits, including Membership Rewards(R), in a cost effective manner; the triggering of obligations to make payments to certain co-brand partners, merchants, vendors and customers under contractual arrangements with such parties under certain circumstances; successfully expanding the company's on-line and off-line distribution channels and cross-selling financial, travel, card and other products and services to its customer base, both in the U.S. and abroad; effectively leveraging the company's assets, such as its brand, customers and international presence, in the Internet environment; investing in and competing at the leading edge of technology across all businesses; a downturn in the company's businesses and/or negative changes in the company's and its subsidiaries' credit ratings, which could result in contingent payments under contracts, decreased liquidity and higher borrowing costs; increasing competition in all of the company's major businesses; fluctuations in interest rates, which impact the company's borrowing costs, return on lending products and spreads in the investment and insurance businesses; credit trends and the rate of bankruptcies, which can affect spending on card products, debt payments by individual and corporate customers and businesses that accept the company's card products and returns on the company's investment portfolios; foreign currency exchange rates; political or economic instability in certain regions or countries, which could affect lending activities, among other businesses; legal and regulatory developments, such as in the areas of consumer privacy and data protection; acquisitions; the adoption of recently issued accounting rules related to the consolidation of special purpose entities, including those involving collateralized debt obligations, structured loan trusts, mutual funds, hedge funds and limited partnerships that the company manages and/or invests in, which could affect both the company's balance sheet and results of operations; and outcomes in litigation. A further description of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, and its other reports filed with the SEC. -10-
All information in the following tables is presented on a GAAP basis, unless otherwise indicated. (Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) (Dollars in millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. Note: Certain prior period amounts have been restated to conform to current year presentation of securitization income. (A) On January 1, 2002 the company adopted SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," which requires that goodwill no longer be amortized but be subject to annual impairment tests. During the quarter and twelve months ended December 31, 2001, goodwill amortization reduced pretax income by $31 million ($24 million after-tax) and $106 million ($82 million after-tax), respectively. (B) The 2001 restructuring charge excludes approximately $26 million of restructuring related loss provision. (C) The 2001 disaster recovery charge excludes approximately $8 million of waived finance charges and late fees recognized in the third quarter. -11-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (Dollars in billions) (A) Guaranteed Preferred Beneficial Interests in the Company's Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures. -12-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (Unaudited) (Dollars in millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. (A) Managed net revenues are reported net of American Express Financial Advisors' provision for losses and benefits and exclude the effect of TRS' securitization activities. The following table reconciles consolidated GAAP revenues to Managed Basis net revenues:
GAAP revenues $ 6,196 $ 5,871 6% $ 23,807 $ 22,582 5% Effect of TRS securitizations 224 220 948 743 Effect of AEFA provisions (539) (502) (1,954) (1,966) -------- -------- -------- -------- Managed net revenues $ 5,881 $ 5,590 5 $ 22,801 $ 21,359 7 ======== ======== ======== ========
(B) Included in 2001 income are three significant items: (a) restructuring charges of $631 million ($411 million after-tax), of which $279 million ($179 million after-tax) was recognized in the fourth quarter, (b) one-time costs (including waived fees) of $98 million ($65 million after-tax) resulting from the September 11th terrorist attacks, recognized in the third quarter, and (c) a charge of $1.01 billion ($669 million after-tax) reflecting losses associated with high-yield securities recorded during the first half of 2001. -13-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (CONTINUED) (Unaudited) SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. * Computed on a trailing 12-month basis excluding the effect on Shareholders' Equity of unrealized gains or losses related to SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." -14-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) (Dollars in millions) Note: Certain prior period amounts have been restated to conform to current year presentation of securitization income. (A) On January 1, 2002 the company adopted SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," which requires that goodwill no longer be amortized but be subject to annual impairment tests. During the quarter ended December 31, 2001, goodwill amortization reduced pretax income by $31 million ($24 million after-tax). -15-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (Unaudited) (Dollars in millions) (A) Managed net revenues are reported net of American Express Financial Advisors' provision for losses and benefits and exclude the effect of TRS' securitization activities. The following table reconciles consolidated GAAP revenues to Managed Basis net revenues:
GAAP revenues $ 6,196 $ 5,907 $ 5,945 $ 5,759 $ 5,871 Effect of TRS securitizations 224 278 193 253 220 Effect of AEFA provisions (539) (487) (458) (470) (502) ------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- Managed net revenues $ 5,881 $ 5,698 $ 5,680 $ 5,542 $ 5,590 ============= ============= ============= ============= =============
(B) Included in fourth quarter 2001 income is a restructuring charge of $279 million ($179 million after-tax). -16-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (CONTINUED) (Unaudited) SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) * Computed on a trailing 12-month basis excluding the effect on Shareholders' Equity of unrealized gains or losses related to SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." -17-
(Preliminary) TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) (Dollars in millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. (A) The disaster recovery charge excludes approximately $8 million of waived finance charges and late fees recognized in the third quarter 2001. Note: Certain prior period amounts have been restated to conform to current year presentation of securitization income. -18-
(Preliminary) TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) (A) The disaster recovery charge excludes approximately $8 million of waived finance charges and late fees recognized in the third quarter 2001. Note: Certain prior period amounts have been restated to conform to current year presentation of securitization income. Management views the gains from securitizations as discretionary benefits to be used for card acquisition expenses, which are reflected in marketing and promotion expense and other operating expenses. Consequently, the above managed Selected Financial Information for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 assume that gains of $136 million and $155 million, respectively, from lending securitizations were offset by higher marketing and promotion expense of $81 million and $92 million, respectively, and other operating expense of $55 million and $63 million, respectively. Accordingly, the incremental expenses, as well as the gains, have been eliminated. -19-
(Preliminary) TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) Note: Certain prior period amounts have been restated to conform to current year presentation of securitization income. # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. -20-
(Preliminary) TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) -21-
(Preliminary) TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) (Amounts in billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Cards in force include proprietary cards and cards issued under network partnership agreements outside the U.S. Average Discount Rate, Average Basic Cardmember Spending and Average Fee per Card are computed from proprietary card activities only. At September 30, 2002, 1.5 million of Canadian lending cards were transferred to basic (though these types of cards were available under a supplemental card program) as the specific cards were issued under a stand-alone offer. The impact of this transfer on the quarter and year ended December 31, 2001 would have been to increase Basic Cards in Force Outside the U.S. to 16.8 million and decrease Average Basic Cardmember Spending to $1,839 and $7,447, respectively. Percentages of increase are calculated assuming the transfer had occurred at the time the cards were issued. (B) This data relates to Visa and Eurocards issued in connection with joint venture activities. (C) Computed from information provided herein. (D) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis excluding the effect on Shareholder's Equity of unrealized gains or losses related to SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." (E) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis excluding the effect on total assets of unrealized gains or losses related to SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," to the extent that they directly affect Shareholder's Equity. -22-
(Preliminary) TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED) (Unaudited) (Amounts in billions, except percentages and where indicated) -23-
(Preliminary) TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) (Dollars in millions) Note: Certain prior period amounts have been restated to conform to current year presentation of securitization income. -24-
(Preliminary) TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES SELECTED MANAGED BASIS INFORMATION (Unaudited) (Dollars in millions) -25-
(Preliminary) TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) (Amounts in billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Cards in force include proprietary cards and cards issued under network partnership agreements outside the U.S. Average Discount Rate, Average Basic Cardmember Spending and Average Fee per Card are computed from proprietary card activities only. At September 30, 2002, 1.5 million of Canadian lending cards were transferred to basic (though these types of cards were available under a supplemental card program) as the specific cards were issued under a stand-alone offer. The impact of this transfer on the quarters ended June 30, 2002, March 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001 would have been to increase Basic Cards in Force Outside the U.S. to 17.4 million, 17.1 million, and 16.8 million and to decrease Average Basic Cardmember Spending to $1,926, $1,766, and $1,839, respectively. Percentages of increase are calculated assuming the transfer had occurred at the time the cards were issued. (B) This data relates to Visa and Eurocards issued in connection with joint venture activities. (C) Computed from information provided herein. (D) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis excluding the effect on Shareholder's Equity of unrealized gains or losses related to SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." (E) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis excluding the effect on total assets of unrealized gains or losses related to SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," to the extent that they directly affect Shareholder's Equity. -26-
(Preliminary) TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED) (Unaudited) (Amounts in billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Revised as per the 8-K filed with the SEC on December 16, 2002. -27-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS FINANCIAL ADVISORS STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED) (Dollars in millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. -28-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS FINANCIAL ADVISORS SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) (Dollars in millions, except where indicated) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. * Excludes cash, derivatives, short term and other investments. ** Computed on a trailing 12-month basis excluding the effect on Shareholder's Equity of unrealized gains or losses related to SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." -29-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS FINANCIAL ADVISORS STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) (Dollars in millions) -30-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS FINANCIAL ADVISORS SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) (Dollars in millions, except where indicated) * Excludes cash, derivatives, short term and other investments. ** Computed on a trailing 12-month basis excluding the effect on Shareholder's Equity of unrealized gains or losses related to SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." -31-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (Dollars in millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. * The fourth quarter 2002 restructuring charge amount represents a reversal of 2001 charges of $2.5 million ($1.6 million after-tax), which was partially offset by a fourth quarter 2002 restructuring charge of $1.5 million ($0.7 million after-tax). To further rationalize operations, AEB recorded a fourth quarter 2002 restructuring charge, which consisted of severance costs and other charges. The full year 2002 restructuring charge amounts consisted of reversals of 2001 restructuring charges of $8.4 million ($5.4 million after-tax), which were partially offset by full year charges of $5.4 million ($3.1 million after-tax). Included in 2001 results are restructuring charges of $96 million ($65 million after-tax) for the full year, which includes $12 million ($8 million after-tax) for the fourth quarter. -32-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) (Dollars in billions, except where indicated) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. (A) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis excluding the effect on Shareholder's Equity of unrealized gains or losses related to SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." (B) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis excluding the effect on total assets of unrealized gains or losses related to SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," to the extent that they directly affect Shareholder's Equity. (C) AEB defines non-performing loans as loans (other than certain smaller-balance consumer loans) on which the accrual of interest is discontinued because the contractual payment of principal or interest has become 90 days past due or if, in management's opinion, the borrower is unlikely to meet its contractual obligations. For smaller-balance consumer loans, management establishes reserves it believes to be adequate to absorb credit losses inherent in the portfolio. Generally, these loans are written off in full when an impairment is determined or when the loan becomes 120 or 180 days past due, depending on loan type. (D) Allocation (millions): (E) Includes assets managed by American Express Financial Advisors. -33-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) (Dollars in millions) * The fourth and third quarter 2002 restructuring charge amounts represent reversals of 2001 charges of $2.5 million ($1.6 million after-tax) and $5.9 million ($3.8 million after-tax), respectively. These amounts were partially offset by fourth and third quarter 2002 restructuring charges of $1.5 million ($0.7 million after-tax) and $3.9 million ($2.4 million after-tax), respectively. The fourth quarter restructuring charge was comprised of primarily severance costs. The third quarter restructuring charge was comprised of $2.0 million pretax of severance costs and $1.9 million pretax of other charges. The 2001 restructuring charge was $96 million ($65 million after-tax) of which $12 million ($8 million after-tax) was recognized in the fourth quarter. -34-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Unaudited) (Dollars in billions, except where indicated) (A) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis excluding the effect on Shareholder's Equity of unrealized gains or losses related to SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." (B) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis excluding the effect on total assets of unrealized gains or losses related to SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," and SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," to the extent that they directly affect Shareholder's Equity. (C) AEB defines non-performing loans as loans (other than certain smaller-balance consumer loans) on which the accrual of interest is discontinued because the contractual payment of principal or interest has become 90 days past due or if, in management's opinion, the borrower is unlikely to meet its contractual obligations. For smaller-balance consumer loans, management establishes reserves it believes to be adequate to absorb credit losses inherent in the portfolio. Generally, these loans are written off in full when an impairment is determined or when the loan becomes 120 or 180 days past due, depending on loan type. (D) Allocation (millions): (E) Includes assets managed by American Express Financial Advisors. -35-

EXHIBIT 99.2 [LOGO OF AMERICAN EXPRESS] 2002 FOURTH QUARTER/FULL YEAR EARNINGS SUPPLEMENT THE ENCLOSED SUMMARY SHOULD BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE TEXT AND STATISTICAL TABLES INCLUDED IN AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY'S (THE "COMPANY" OR "AXP") FOURTH QUARTER/FULL YEAR 2002 EARNINGS RELEASE. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- THIS SUMMARY CONTAINS CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES AND SPEAK ONLY AS OF THE DATE ON WHICH THEY ARE MADE. IMPORTANT FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS, INCLUDING THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL AND OTHER GOALS, ARE SET FORTH ON PAGE 27 HEREIN AND IN THE COMPANY'S 2001 10-K ANNUAL REPORT, AND OTHER REPORTS, ON FILE WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 HIGHLIGHTS o The Company achieved fourth quarter diluted EPS of $0.52 compared with $0.22 last year. GAAP revenues increased 6%. For the trailing 12 months, ROE was 21%. - Comparisons with last year's results benefited from two 4Q '01 items: --The 4Q '01 restructuring charges of $279MM pre-tax ($179MM after-tax); and --Goodwill amortization of $31MM pre-tax ($24MM after-tax) in 4Q '01. Due to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142 in 2002, no goodwill amortization occurred in 4Q '02. - Negatively impacting the comparison with last year was: --A 4Q '02 net pre-tax restructuring charge of $14MM ($9MM after-tax) reflecting additional charges at TRS of $15MM pre-tax, offset in part by a net $1MM pre-tax benefit primarily due to adjustments to last year's aggregate restructuring charge reserve at AEB. o Compared with the fourth quarter of 2001: - Worldwide billed business increased 13% on the continuation of relatively strong consumer spending, and improvements in both small business and corporate spending comparisons to last year's depressed levels. - TRS' worldwide lending balances on a managed asset basis of $39.8B were up 10%, while on an owned basis, loans of $22.6B increased 8%; - Worldwide cards in force of 57.3MM increased 4%, up 2.1MM from last year and 900K in 4Q '02; and, - AEFA assets owned, managed and administered of $231B were down 9% vs. last year on asset depreciation and, to a lesser extent, net asset outflows. o Additional items of note included: - Marketing and promotion costs at TRS increased 31% versus 4Q '01 as more proactive business building activities were implemented. Improved metric performance during the quarter reflects the benefits of this increased spending over recent quarters. - Lower funding costs provided substantial benefits through improved spreads and a 25% reduction in charge card interest expense during the quarter. For the year, lower funding costs provided over $500MM of benefits. - Card credit quality remained well controlled and reserve coverage ratios remained strong. - AEFA equity portfolio performance improved as, on an asset-weighted basis, 69% of equity assets in portfolios were above the mean for 2002 versus 50% in 2001. - The Company's reengineering initiatives continued to provide substantial year over year expense comparison benefits. Compared with 12/31/00, the total employee count is down 13,400, or 15%. - The presentation of the Consolidated and TRS GAAP revenues was revised in 1Q '02 to better highlight the impact of securitizations through the reclassification of the related effects from lending finance charge and other revenues to a separate Securitization Income line item. This presentation revision does not impact total GAAP revenues or the TRS managed basis information. Restated information for the past three years was filed with the SEC concurrent with distribution of the 1Q '02 earnings release. All prior period information contained within the 4Q '02 earnings release and earnings supplement has been restated to conform to this presentation. -1-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 HIGHLIGHTS (CONT'D) o American Express continued to invest in growth opportunities through expanded products and services. During the quarter, we: - Launched the American Express Gift Card that can be used for purchases at any retailer in the U.S. that accepts the American Express Card until the funds are depleted and, since the recipient's name is embossed on it, offers additional security against loss or theft; - Reached an agreement with American Airlines to provide American Express Corporate Travel customers in North America with access to all publicly available American Airlines fares, including web fares; - Signed a network partnership agreement with Bank of New Zealand to begin offering classic and gold BNZ American Express credit cards, and GlobalPlus American Express classic and gold credit cards; - Appointed Lotte Card, Ltd., one of the largest conglomerates in Korea, as American Express' new card-issuing and merchant-acquiring partner in Korea; and - At AEFA: -- Launched two new subadvised international equity funds: - AXP Partners International Small Cap Fund: co-subadvised by Wellington Management Co. and Templeton Investment Counsel; and - AXP Partners International Core Fund: co-subadvised by Putnam Investments and The Boston Company Asset Management; and -- Began offering a new large cap growth equity product, Growth Spectrum Advisors III, to institutional clients. -2-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 OVERVIEW CONSOLIDATED # Denotes variance in excess of 100%. o Net income more than doubled. - 4Q '02 includes a net pre-tax restructuring charge of $14MM ($9MM after-tax) at TRS and AEB. - 4Q '01 includes restructuring charges of $279MM pre-tax ($179MM after-tax). o CONSOLIDATED REVENUES: Revenues increased 6% due to greater discount revenues, higher securitization income, larger interest and dividend revenues and improved travel revenues. These items were partially offset by lower management and distribution fees. Consolidated revenue growth included 8% growth at TRS and a 13% increase at AEB, while AEFA revenues were flat versus last year. o CONSOLIDATED EXPENSES: Expenses were down 5%, but, excluding restructuring charges, decreased slightly reflecting lower charge card funding costs, a decline in human resource expenses, reduced provision costs and the benefits of reengineering activities and expense control initiatives. These decreases were offset by higher other operating expenses and increased marketing costs. Consolidated expenses reflected a 6% decline at TRS, while AEFA and AEB each rose 1% versus last year. o The pretax margin was 15.3% in 4Q '02 versus 16.2% in 3Q '02 and 5.9% in 4Q '01. o The effective tax rate was 28% in 4Q '02 and 3Q '02, and 14% in 4Q '01. o Since September 11, 2001, the company incurred costs related to the terrorist attacks of approximately $198MM, which are expected to be substantially covered by insurance and,consequently, did not impact results. These costs include the duplicate facilities and equipment associated with the relocation of the company's offices in lower Manhattan and certain other business recovery expenses. Costs associated with the damage to the company's offices, extra operating expenses and business interruption losses are still being evaluated. -3-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 OVERVIEW CONSOLIDATED (CONT'D) o SHARE REPURCHASES: The share repurchase program resumed in June, after being suspended at the end of 2Q '01. However, during the quarter, the company elected to prepay $600MM of the aggregate amount outstanding under its third-party purchase agreements in lieu of open market share repurchases. This resulted in the repurchase of 16.7MM shares. - During 4Q '02, the Board authorized repurchases of up to an additional 120MM shares. Since the inception of repurchase programs in September 1994, 390MM shares have been acquired under Board authorizations to repurchase up to 570MM shares, including purchases made under the agreements with third parties. o SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION - MANAGED NET REVENUES: The following supplemental revenue information is presented on the basis used by management to evaluate operations. It differs in two respects from the GAAP basis revenues, which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). First, revenues are presented as if there had been no asset securitizations at Travel Related Services (TRS). This format is generally termed on a "managed basis," as further discussed in the TRS section of this Earnings Supplement. Second, revenues are also shown net of American Express Financial Advisors' (AEFA) provisions for annuities, insurance and investment certificates products, which are essentially spread businesses, as further discussed in the AEFA section. A reconciliation of consolidated revenues from a GAAP to managed net basis is as follows: - Consolidated net revenues on a managed basis increased 5% versus last year, due to greater discount revenues, higher lending spreads and loan balances, and improved travel revenues. These items were partially offset by lower management and distribution fees. CORPORATE AND OTHER o The net expense of $44MM in 4Q '02 compared with $43MM in 3Q '02 and $45MM in 4Q '01. - 4Q '01 included $3MM ($2MM after-tax) of restructuring charges. -4-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 OVERVIEW TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES # Denotes variance in excess of 100%. o Net income more than tripled. - 4Q '02 includes a net pre-tax charge of $15MM ($10MM after-tax) of additional charges related to last year's restructuring activities. - 4Q '01 results reflect the effect of the $219MM pre-tax ($140MM after-tax) restructuring charge. o The pretax margin was 17.0% in 4Q '02 versus 18.2% in 3Q '02 and 4.6% in 4Q '01. o The effective tax rate was 31% in 4Q '02 and 3Q '02, and 13% in 4Q '01. The rate variance versus last year reflects the relative size of the Travelers Cheque tax benefit contribution during each quarter. o IMPACT OF SECURITIZATIONS: During 4Q '02 and 4Q '01, there were no new Cardmember lending securitization transactions. The average balance of Cardmember lending securitizations was $17.2B in 4Q '02 versus $15.1B in 4Q '01. - SECURITIZATION INCOME increased 35% in 4Q '02 as a result of a higher average balance of cardmember lending securitizations and improved spreads. -- Securitization income represents revenue associated with retained and subordinated interests in securitized loans, servicing income from loans sold and gains recorded at the time of securitization. - NET FINANCE CHARGE REVENUE decreased 3%, reflecting the impact of lower interest rates and the mix of accounts in the owned portfolio, partially offset by a slight increase in the average balance of the owned portfolio for the period. - OTHER REVENUES decreased 2% as a result of significantly lower interest income on investment and liquidity pools held within card funding vehicles, partially offset by larger insurance premiums. - LENDING PROVISION rose 8% reflecting overall growth in loans outstanding and continued uncertainty in the economic environment. - All of the above GAAP basis items reflect the owned portfolio only. "Owned basis" credit quality statistics are available in the Fourth Quarter/Full Year 2002 Earnings Release on the TRS Selected Statistical Information page. -5-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 OVERVIEW TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES (CONT'D) SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION - MANAGED BASIS: The following supplemental table includes information on both a GAAP basis and a "managed" basis. Managed basis means the presentation assumes there have been no securitization transactions, i.e. all securitized Cardmember loans and related income effects are reflected in the Company's balance sheet and income statement, respectively. The Company presents TRS information on a managed basis because that is the way the Company's management views and manages the business. The reason this approach is used by management, and why it is important to investors, is because a full picture of trends in the Company's Cardmember lending business can only be derived by evaluating the performance of both securitized and non-securitized Cardmember loans. Asset securitization is just one of several ways for the Company to fund Cardmember loans. Use of a managed basis presentation, including non-securitized and securitized Cardmember loans, presents a more accurate picture of the key dynamics of the Cardmember lending business, avoiding distortions due to the mix of funding sources at any particular point in time. For example, irrespective of the mix, it is important for management and investors to see metrics, such as changes in delinquencies and write-off rates, for the entire Cardmember lending portfolio because they are more representative of the economics of the aggregate Cardmember relationships and ongoing business performance and trends over time. It is also important for investors to see the overall growth of Cardmember loans and related revenue to determine changes in market share, which are all significant metrics in evaluating the Company's performance and which can only be properly assessed when all non-securitized and securitized Cardmember loans are viewed on a managed basis. The following table compares and reconciles the GAAP basis TRS income statements to the managed basis information, where different. # Denotes variance in excess of 100%. The following discussion addresses results on a managed basis. o Managed basis revenue rose 8% from higher Cardmember spending, increased cards in force, larger lending revenues and greater travel commissions and fees. -6-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 OVERVIEW TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES (CONT'D) o The 5% lower managed basis expenses reflect lower interest costs, decreased human resource expenses, reduced provisions for losses and cost control initiatives, partially offset by greater marketing and promotion costs and increased operating expenses. o DISCOUNT REVENUE: A 13% increase in billed business and a lower discount rate yielded an 11%increase in discount revenue. - The average discount rate was 2.62% in 4Q '02 versus 2.63% in 3Q '02 and 2.66% in 4Q '01. The decline reflects the cumulative impact of stronger than average growth in the lower rate retail and other "everyday spend" merchant categories (e.g., supermarkets, discounters, etc.), -- We believe the AXP value proposition is strong. However, as indicated in prior quarters, continued changes in the mix of business, volume related pricing discounts and selective repricing initiatives will probably result in some rate erosion over time. (a) Proprietary card activity only. (b) At September 30, 2002, 1.5MM of Canadian lending cards previously classified as "supplemental cards" were included in basic cards in force, as they were issued under a stand-alone offer. The impact on 4Q '01 reported results would be to increase basic cards in force outside the U.S. to 16.8MM and decrease spending per basic card in force worldwide to $1,839 and outside the U.S. to $1,325. The reported growth rates are calculated assuming the additional cards were included in both periods. - BILLED BUSINESS: ---------------- The 13% increase in billed business resulted from growth in cards in force and higher spending per basic Cardmember worldwide. -- U.S. billed business was up 13% reflecting growth of 13% within the consumer card business, on 11% higher transaction volume, a 12% increase in small business services and 13% higher Corporate Services volume. - Spending per basic card in force increased 13% reflecting the growth in each customer segment. -- Excluding the impact of foreign exchange translation: - Total billed business outside the U.S. was up 8% reflecting double-digit improvement in Canada, high single-digit growth in Asia, and mid single-digit improvement in Europe, partially offset by a low single-digit decline in Latin America. - Spending per proprietary basic card in force outside the U.S. rose 3%. -- Network partnership and Purchasing Card volumes sustained their relatively stronger growth performance during the quarter. -- U.S. non-T&E related volume categories (which represented approximately 67% of 4Q '02 U.S. billed business) grew 13%, while T&E volumes increased 14%, reflecting relatively easier comparisons to last year's depressed levels after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. -- Airline related volume, which represented approximately 11% of total U.S. volumes during the quarter, was up 16% worldwide on 15% growth in transaction volume. -7-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 OVERVIEW TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES (CONT'D) o DISCOUNT REVENUE (CONT'D): - CARDS IN FORCE worldwide rose 4% versus last year. -- U.S. cards in force rose 300K during the quarter on the benefits of stepped up acquisition spending. -- Outside the United States, 600K cards in force were added during the quarter on improved proprietary card growth despite the continued adverse effects of business conditions in Argentina, Brazil and Hong Kong. o NET CARD FEES: Rose 2% due to higher cards in force and a shift in the mix of products. The average fee per proprietary card in force was $34 in 4Q '02, 3Q '02 and 4Q '01. o NET FINANCE CHARGE REVENUE: -------------------------- Rose 8% on 8% growth in average worldwide lending balances. - The yield on the U.S. portfolio was 9.8% in 4Q '02 versus 9.7% in 3Q '02 and 9.6% in 4Q '01. The improvement versus last year reflects a slight decrease in the proportion of the portfolio on introductory rates and the benefits of lower funding costs, which were partially offset by the evolving mix of products toward more lower-rate offerings. o TRAVEL COMMISSIONS AND FEES: Increased 10% on 16% growth in travel sales reflecting the effects of the particularly weak corporate travel environment last year. The revenue earned per dollar of sales was down versus last year's unusually high level (9.6% in 4Q '02 versus 9.3% in 3Q '02 and 10.2% in 4Q '01). o TC INVESTMENT INCOME: Was flat as higher average investments were offset by a decline in the pre-tax yield. TC sales rose 4% in the quarter. o OTHER REVENUES: Increased 5% as certain securitization-related revenues and larger insurance premiums were partially offset by significantly lower interest income on investment and liquidity pools held within card funding vehicles. o MARKETING AND PROMOTION EXPENSES: Increased 31% on the continuation of the new brand advertising campaign, marketing of the new charge cards with Membership Rewards built-in and the Cash Rebate card, more loyalty marketing and a step-up in selected card acquisition activities. o OTHER PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES AND CLAIMS: Declined substantially due to last year's reserve additions, related to credit exposures to travel industry service establishments, and insurance claims and benefits from the crash of Flight #587. o CHARGE CARD INTEREST EXPENSE: ---------------------------- Was down 26% due to a lower effective cost of funds. o HUMAN RESOURCE EXPENSES: Decreased 7% versus last year due to a lower number of employees as a result of reengineering activities, including our technology outsourcing agreement with IBM. - The employee count at 12/02 of 63,600 was down approximately 8,400, or 12%, versus last year. o OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES: Increased 10% on higher costs related to Cardmember loyalty programs, as well as the transfer of costs from human resources resulting from technology outsourcing. These increases were partially offset by reengineering initiatives and cost containment efforts. -8-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 OVERVIEW TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES (CONT'D) o CREDIT QUALITY: - Overall credit quality improved during the quarter. - The provision for losses on charge card products decreased 31% on improved past due and loss levels. - The lending provision for losses was 6% above last year on growth in outstanding loans and increased reserve coverage levels. - Reserve coverage ratios, which are well in excess of 100% of past due balances, remained strong. - WORLDWIDE CHARGE CARD: * -- The write-off and past due rates decreased from last year and last quarter. * There are no off-balance sheet Charge Card securitizations. Therefore, "Owned basis" and "Managed basis" credit quality statistics are the same. ** As previously described, this information is presented on a "Managed basis". "Owned basis" credit quality statistics are available in the Fourth Quarter/Full Year 2002 Earnings Release on the Selected Statistical Information page. Credit trends are generally consistent under both reporting methods. *** Revised as per the 8-K filed with the SEC on December 16, 2002. The revision resulted from a change in the system used by the Company to track accounts sent to outside collection agencies, and a resulting delay in capturing data related to accounts that had entered bankruptcy. This delay was corrected in 4Q '02. -9-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 OVERVIEW AMERICAN EXPRESS FINANCIAL ADVISORS o Net income decreased 6%. - 4Q '01 results include $45MM ($29MM after-tax) of restructuring charges. o Total revenues decreased slightly due to: - Reduced management fees from lower average managed asset levels; partially offset by - Higher investment income; and - Higher insurance premiums. o The pretax margin was 14.3% in 4Q '02, 14.8% in 3Q '02 and 15.2% in 4Q '01. o The effective tax rate was 25.9% in 4Q '02 and 3Q '02, and 26.0% in 4Q '01. o SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION - NET REVENUES: In the following table, the Company presents AEFA's aggregate revenues on a basis that is net of provisions for losses and benefits because the Company manages the AEFA business and evaluates its financial performance, where appropriate, in terms of the "spread" on its products. An important part of AEFA's business is margin related, particularly the insurance, annuity and certificate businesses. One of the gross margin drivers for the AEFA business is the return on invested cash, primarily generated by sales of insurance, annuity and investment certificates, less provisions for losses and benefits on these products. These investments tend to be interest rate sensitive. Thus, GAAP revenues tend to be higher in periods of rising interest rates, and lower in times of decreasing interest rates. The same relationship is true of provisions, only it is more accentuated period-to-period. The Company manages this portion of the AEFA business on a net basis to eliminate potentially less informative comparisons of period-to-period changes in revenue and provisions for losses and benefits in light of the impact of these changes in interest rates. -10-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 OVERVIEW AMERICAN EXPRESS FINANCIAL ADVISORS (CONT'D) - On a net revenue basis, the pretax margin was 22.8% in 4Q '02 and in 3Q '02, and 23.2% in 4Q '01. o ASSETS OWNED, MANAGED AND ADMINISTERED: o ASSET QUALITY: - Overall credit quality reflected the persistently high default rates, including those within the high yield sector. - Non-performing assets relative to invested assets (excluding short-term cash positions) were 0.1% and were 168% covered by reserves, including those related to the impairment of securities. - High-yield investments totaled $2.4B, or 6% of the total investment portfolio, at 12/31/02, up from $1.3B, or 4%, at 12/31/01, and flat with 6% at 9/30/02. Going forward, AEFA continues to target a level of approximately 7%. - The SFAS No. 115 related mark-to-market adjustment on the portfolio (reported in assets pretax) was appreciation of $1.1B at 12/02 and at 9/02, and $224MM at 12/01. o INVESTMENT INCOME: - Investment income increased 5% as higher invested assets more than offset a lower average yield and the effect of lower appreciation in the S&P 500 on the value of options hedging outstanding stock market certificates and equity indexed annuities, which was offset in the related provisions. Investment losses, primarily related to high yield and structured investments, were offset by realized gains during the quarter. - Average invested assets of $40.5B (excluding unrealized appreciation/depreciation) rose 15% versus $35.2B in 4Q '01. - The average yield on invested assets declined to 5.5% versus 6.4% in 4Q '01, reflecting a relatively high level of short-term holdings during 4Q '02 and lower new investment yields. - Net interest spreads within the insurance and annuity products were down versus last year and up versus last quarter, while certificates were up versus last year and down versus last quarter. -11-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 OVERVIEW AMERICAN EXPRESS FINANCIAL ADVISORS (CONT'D) o MANAGEMENT AND DISTRIBUTION FEES: The decrease of 11% was due to lower average assets under management, reflecting the negative impact of weak equity market conditions and, to a lesser extent, net outflows. Distribution fees rose slightly as the impact of lower mutual fund sales was offset by other product related sales increases. - ASSETS MANAGED: -- The decline in managed assets since 12/01 resulted from $21.8B of market depreciation, reflecting in part the 23% decline in the S&P 500 during the year, and $8.0B of net outflows. -- The $2.1B increase in managed assets during 4Q '02 resulted from market appreciation of $4.4B, partially offset by net outflows of $2.3B. o PRODUCT SALES: - Total gross cash sales from all products were down 3% versus 4Q '01. Branded advisor-generated sales decreased 9% on a cash basis, but rose slightly on the internally used "gross dealer concession" basis, which weights the sales of products to reflect their individual profitability dynamics. - Mutual fund sales decreased 17% as both proprietary and non-proprietary sales declined. A significant portion of non-proprietary sales continued to occur in "wrap" accounts. Within proprietary funds: -- Sales of bond, equity and money market funds declined. -- Redemption rates continued to compare favorably with industry levels. - Annuity sales rose 51%, on strong growth in both fixed and variable annuity sales. - Sales of insurance products fell 17% reflecting lower sales of life products, partially offset by higher property-casualty sales, in part due to sales through Costco. - Certificate sales increased 9% reflecting greater sales of certificates sold to clients outside the U.S. through the joint venture between AEFA and AEB. - Institutional sales increased 1%, reflecting higher contributions, offset by lower new account sales. - Other sales increased 10% due primarily to higher limited partnership sales. - Advisor product sales generated through financial planning and advice services were 74% of total sales in 4Q '02 versus 73% in 3Q '02 and 72% in 4Q '01. o OTHER REVENUES: Were up 11%, primarily on higher property-casualty and life insurance premiums and charges. - Financial planning and advice services fees of $27MM fell 1% versus 4Q '01. o PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES AND BENEFITS: Annuity product provisions increased due to a higher inforce level and increased costs of $9MM related to guaranteed minimum death benefits, partially offset by the effect of lower appreciation in the S&P 500 on equity indexed annuities and lower accrual rates. Insurance provisions increased as higher inforce levels and higher claims were partially offset by lower accrual rates. Certificate provisions decreased from significantly lower accrual rates and the effect on the stock market certificate product provision of lower appreciation in the S&P 500, partially offset by higher average reserves. -12-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 OVERVIEW AMERICAN EXPRESS FINANCIAL ADVISORS (CONT'D) o HUMAN RESOURCES: Expenses declined 1% reflecting modestly higher field force compensation-related costs that were more than offset by the benefits of reengineering and cost containment initiatives within the home office, where average employees were down 14%. - TOTAL ADVISOR FORCE: 11,689 at 12/02; up 154 advisors, or 1%, versus 12/01 and up 336 advisors versus 9/02. -- The increase in advisors versus 9/02 reflects seasonal appointment benefits, partially offset by higher termination rates due to the continuing weak environment. -- We expect to continue to carefully manage new advisor additions until the environment turns more positive, to ensure overall field force costs are appropriately controlled and overall field force productivity is maximized. -- Veteran advisor retention rates remain strong. -- Total production was up slightly, while advisor productivity was down modestly versus last year. -- The total number of clients increased 2%, client acquisitions were down and accounts per client were flat. Client retention exceeded 94%. o OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES: Increased 9% versus last year reflecting AEFA's 3Q'02 revision of the types and amounts of DAC cost deferrals, technology outsourcing, which transferred costs from human resources, and a higher minority interest expense related to premium deposits (the joint venture with AEB). -13-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 OVERVIEW AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK # Denotes variance in excess of 100%. o Net income increased substantially, as a result of solid operating results and last year's restructuring charge of $12MM pre-tax ($8MM after-tax). - 4Q '02 includes a net pre-tax benefit of $1MM reflecting an adjustment to last year's restructuring charge reserve of $3MM ($2MM after-tax), which was partially offset by a 4Q '02 restructuring charge of $2MM ($1MM after-tax) reflecting the Bank's efforts to further rationalize certain operations. o Net revenues grew 13% on higher commissions and fees, and larger other revenues. - Net interest income rose 3% primarily due to lower funding costs and higher business volumes. - Commissions and fees were up 17% due to higher volumes in the Financial Institutions Group. - Foreign exchange income & other revenue increased 35% on higher revenue from lower funding costs within premium deposits (the joint venture with AEFA) and higher Private Banking revenues. o Human resource and other operating expenses combined were up 4% reflecting a higher employee level, due to the purchase of the remaining 50% of AEB's Brazil joint venture, and greater technology costs, offset by the benefits of reengineering activities and tighter expense controls. o The provision for losses increased mainly due to higher bankruptcy related write-offs in the consumer lending portfolio in Hong Kong. o AEB remained "well-capitalized". -14-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 OVERVIEW AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK (CONT'D) o EXPOSURES - AEB's loans outstanding were $5.6B at 12/02 versus $5.3B at 12/01 and $5.5B at 9/02. Activity since 12/01 included a $400MM net decrease in corporate banking loans, including an $80MM increase in loans from the purchase of the remaining 50% of AEB's Brazil joint venture, a $200MM increase in financial institution loans and a $500MM increase in consumer and private banking loans. Consumer and private banking loans comprised 66% of total loans at 12/02 and 9/02, and 60% at 12/01; corporate banking loans comprised 9% of total loans at 12/02 and 9/02, and 18% at 12/01; and financial institution loans comprised 25% of total loans at 12/02 and 9/02, and 22% at 12/01. - In addition to the loan portfolio, there are other banking activities, such as forward contracts, various contingencies and market placements, which added approximately $8.0B to the credit exposures at 12/02, $7.2B at 9/02 and $7.3B at 12/01. Of the $8.0B of additional exposures at 12/02, $5.8B were relatively less risky cash and securities related balances. (1)Includes cash, placements and securities. (2)Individual items may not add to totals due to rounding. (3)Total exposures to Argentina at 12/31/02 were $28MM, which includes loans of $17MM, compared to 9/30/02 exposures of $37MM, including $25MM of loans. Note: Includes cross-border and local exposure and does not net local funding or liabilities against any local exposure. -15-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FOURTH QUARTER 2002 OVERVIEW AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK (CONT'D) o Total non-performing loans* were $119MM at 12/02, compared to $120MM at 9/02 and $123MM at 12/01 as AEB continues to wind down its Corporate Banking business. The decreases reflect loan payments and write-offs, mostly in Egypt and India, partially offset by net downgrades, mostly in Argentina and India. o Other non-performing assets were $15MM at 12/02 versus $17MM at 9/02 and $22MM at 12/01. o AEB's total reserves at 12/02 of $158MM compared with $166MM at 9/02 and $148MM at 12/01, and are allocated as follows: - Loan loss reserve coverage of non-performing loans* of 127% at 12/02 compared with 129% at 9/02 and 104% at 12/01. o Management formally reviews the loan portfolio and evaluates credit risk throughout the year. This evaluation takes into consideration the financial condition of the borrowers, fair market value of collateral, status of delinquencies, historical loss experience, industry trends and the impact of current economic conditions. As of December 31, 2002, management considers the loss reserve to be appropriate. * AEB defines a non-performing loan as any loan (other than certain smaller-balance consumer loans) on which the accrual of interest is discontinued because the contractual payment of principal or interest has become 90 days past due or if, in management's opinion, the borrower is unlikely to meet its contractual obligations. For smaller-balance consumer loans related to the PFS business, management establishes reserves it believes to be adequate to absorb credit losses in the portfolio. Generally, these loans are written off in full when an impairment is determined or when the loan becomes 120 or 180 days past due, depending on loan type. For this portfolio, 30-day past due rates were 5.4% at 12/02, as compared to 4.9% at 9/02 and 4.5% at 12/01. -16-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FULL YEAR 2002 OVERVIEW CONSOLIDATED # Denotes variances in excess of 100%. o Full year 2002 net income more than doubled. - 2002 results include: -- The 2Q '02 investment loss of $78MM pre-tax ($50MM after-tax) on WorldCom debt securities; -- The recognition of $61MM pre-tax ($40MM after-tax) of losses primarily on TRS' internet-related strategic investment portfolio; and -- The $44MM ($29MM after-tax) negative net DAC adjustment reflecting AEFA's 3Q '02 revision of the types and amounts of DAC cost deferrals. - 2001 results reflect: -- $1,008MM ($669MM after-tax) of losses, recorded in 1Q '01 and 2Q '01, related to the write down and sale of certain high-yield securities and the reduction of the risk profile within AEFA's investment portfolio; -- The negative effect of the restructuring charges of $631MM ($411MM after-tax) - $352MM ($232MM after-tax) in 3Q '01 and $279MM ($179MM after-tax) in 4Q '01; -- The $98MM ($65MM after-tax) of one-time costs and waived customer fees in 3Q '01 resulting from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks; -- Goodwill amortization of $106MM ($82MM after-tax); and -- A $67MM expense increase in 1Q '01 due to an adjustment of DAC for variable insurance and annuity products. o CONSOLIDATED REVENUES: Total revenues increased 5% due to greater discount revenues, higher interest and dividend income, increased securitization income, higher cardmember lending finance charge revenues and greater card fees. These items were partially offset by lower management and distribution fees, weaker travel revenues and reduced other revenues. -17-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FULL YEAR 2002 OVERVIEW CONSOLIDATED (CONT'D) o CONSOLIDATED EXPENSES: Decreased 4% due to lower funding costs, a decline in human resource expenses, reduced provision costs and the benefits of reengineering activities and expense control initiatives, as well as the effect of last year's restructuring and disaster recovery charges. These decreases were partially offset by higher other operating expenses and increased marketing costs. o The pretax margin was 15.7% in 2002 versus 7.1% in 2001. o The effective tax rate was 28% in 2002 and 18% in 2001. o AVERAGE SHARES: o ACTUAL SHARE ACTIVITY: o SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION - MANAGED NET REVENUES: The following supplemental revenue information is presented on the basis used by management to evaluate operations. It differs in two respects from the GAAP basis revenues, which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). First, revenues are presented as if there had been no asset securitizations at Travel Related Services (TRS). This format is generally termed on a "managed basis," as further discussed in the TRS section of this Earnings Supplement. Second, revenues are also shown net of American Express Financial Advisors' (AEFA) provisions for annuities, insurance and investment certificates products, which are essentially spread businesses, as further discussed in the AEFA section. A reconciliation of consolidated revenues from a GAAP to managed net basis is as follows: - Consolidated net revenues on a managed basis increased 7% due to greater discount revenues, higher lending spreads and loan balances and higher revenues related to AEFA's investment portfolio. These items were partially offset by lower management and distribution fees and weaker travel revenues. CORPORATE AND OTHER o The 2002 net operating expense was $176MM compared with $187MM in 2001 - Both 2002 and 2001 include Lehman Brothers preferred dividends based on its earnings. In 2002, the dividend was $69MM ($59MM after-tax) reflecting the normal 1Q '02 dividend of $46MM ($39MM after-tax), as well as the final dividend payment, received in 3Q '02, of $23MM ($20MM after-tax). In 2001, the dividend was $46MM ($39MM after-tax). In both periods, the dividends were offset by business building initiatives. - 2001 also reflects $14MM pre-tax ($9MM after-tax) of restructuring charges. -18-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FULL YEAR 2002 OVERVIEW TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES o Net income increased 46%. - 2002 results include a net pre-tax benefit of $4MM pre-tax ($3MM after-tax) primarily reflecting adjustments to last year's aggregate restructuring charge reserve. - 2001 results reflect the effect of the $414MM pre-tax ($267MM after-tax) restructuring charges and the $87MM pre-tax ($57MM after-tax) of costs and waived customer fees resulting from the 9/11 terrorist attacks. o The pretax margin was 17.4% in 2002 versus 11.4% in 2001. o The effective tax rate increased to 31% in 2002 from 26% in 2001 reflecting the relative size of the Travelers Cheque tax benefit contribution during each period. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION - MANAGED BASIS: The following supplemental table includes information on both a GAAP basis and a "managed" basis. Managed basis means the presentation assumes there have been no securitization transactions, i.e. all securitized Cardmember loans and related income effects are reflected in the Company's balance sheet and income statement, respectively. The Company presents TRS information on a managed basis because that is the way the Company's management views and manages the business. The reason this approach is used by management, and why it is important to investors, is because a full picture of trends in the Company's Cardmember lending business can only be derived by evaluating the performance of both securitized and non-securitized Cardmember loans. Asset securitization is just one of several ways for the Company to fund Cardmember loans. -19-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FULL YEAR 2002 OVERVIEW TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES (CONT'D) Use of a managed basis presentation, including non-securitized and securitized Cardmember loans, presents a more accurate picture of the key dynamics of the Cardmember lending business, avoiding distortions due to the mix of funding sources at any particular point in time. For example, irrespective of the mix, it is important for management and investors to see metrics, such as changes in delinquencies and write-off rates, for the entire Cardmember lending portfolio because they are more representative of the economics of the aggregate Cardmember relationships and ongoing business performance and trends over time. It is also important for investors to see the overall growth of Cardmember loans and related revenue to determine changes in market share, which are all significant metrics in evaluating the Company's performance and which can only be properly assessed when all non-securitized and securitized Cardmember loans are viewed on a managed basis. On a GAAP reporting basis, TRS' results for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 included net Cardmember lending securitization gains of $136MM ($88MM after-tax) and $155MM ($101MM after-tax), respectively. Management views the gains from securitizations as discretionary benefits to be used for card acquisition expenses, which are reflected in both marketing and promotion and other operating expenses. Consequently, the managed basis presentation for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 assume that lending securitization gains were offset by higher marketing and promotion expense of $81MM and $92MM, respectively, and other operating expense of $55MM and $63MM, respectively. Accordingly, the incremental expenses, as well as the gains, have been eliminated. During 2002, the average balance of Cardmember lending securitizations was $16.8B, compared with $13.8B in 2001. The increase in average balances securitized and higher portfolio yields drove the 35% increase in the GAAP basis securitization income. The following table compares and reconciles the GAAP basis TRS income statements to the managed basis information, where different. See also the consolidated discussion in the Company's Fourth Quarter/Full Year 2002 Earnings Release, which accompanies this supplement and addresses certain TRS income statement items, on a GAAP basis, that differ from managed basis financial measures. -20-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FULL YEAR 2002 OVERVIEW TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES (CONT'D) The following discussion addresses results on a managed basis. o Managed basis revenue rose 3% from greater net finance charge revenue, higher cardmember spending and increased cards in force, which were partially offset by lower travel commissions and fees, TC investment income and other revenues. o The 3% lower managed basis expenses reflect substantially lower interest costs, decreased human resource expenses, reduced provisions for losses and cost control initiatives, partially offset by greater marketing and promotion costs and increased operating expenses. o DISCOUNT REVENUE: Higher billed business and a lower discount rate yielded a 3% increase in discount revenue. - The average discount rate was 2.64% in 2002 versus 2.67% in 2001. The decline from last year reflects the cumulative impact of stronger than average growth in the lower rate retail and other "everyday spend" merchant categories (e.g., supermarkets, discounters, etc.). (a) Proprietary card activity only. (b) At September 30, 2002, 1.5MM of Canadian lending cards previously classified as "supplemental cards" were included in basic cards in force, as they were issued under a stand-alone offer. The impact on 2001 reported results would be to decrease spending per basic card in force worldwide to $7,447 and outside the U.S. to $5,387. The reported growth rates are calculated assuming the additional cards were included in both periods. - BILLED BUSINESS: The 4% increase in billed business reflects growth in cards in force and higher spending per basic cardmember worldwide. --U.S. billed business increased 4% reflecting 8% growth within the consumer card business, on 10% higher transaction volume, a 4% increase within small business services and a 3% decline within Corporate Services. - Spending per basic card in force grew 4%. - Excluding the impact of foreign exchange translation: - Total billed business outside the U.S. rose approximately 4% on single-digit growth in Canada, Asia and Europe, offset by declines in Latin America. - Spending per proprietary basic card in force outside the U.S. declined 2%. --Network partnership and Purchasing Card volumes sustained their stronger growth levels, in excess of the consolidated worldwide billed business growth rate. --U.S. non-T&E related volume categories (which represented approximately 63% of U.S. billed business during 2002) grew 9% versus last year, while T&E volumes decreased 2%. --Airline related volume, which represented approximately 13% of total U.S. volumes during 2002, declined 6% worldwide on a mid single-digit decline in the average airline charge and flat transaction volumes. o NET CARD FEES: Rose 2% as the increase in cards in force was partially offset by the mix shift toward lower and no fee products. The average fee per card in force was $34 in 2002 and in 2001. o NET FINANCE CHARGE REVENUE: Rose 16% on 7% growth in average worldwide lending balances. - The net yield on the U.S. portfolio rose to 9.8% from 8.8% in 2001 as a decrease in the proportion of the portfolio on introductory rates, and the benefit of declining funding costs throughout the year, were partially offset by the evolving mix of products toward more lower-rate offerings. -21-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FULL YEAR 2002 OVERVIEW TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES (CONT'D) o TRAVEL COMMISSIONS AND FEES: Declined 8% on a 10% contraction in travel sales reflecting the effects of the weak corporate travel environment. The revenue earned per dollar of sales increased (9.1% in 2002 versus 8.9% in 2001), reflecting new fees related to the migration to transaction-based customer relationships, partially offset by continued efforts by travel industry suppliers to reduce distribution costs and by corporate clients to contain travel and entertainment expenses. o TC INVESTMENT INCOME: Decreased 5% reflecting a lower yield, partially offset by higher average investments. TC sales declined 6% in 2002. o OTHER REVENUES: Decreased 2% due to significantly lower interest income on investment and liquidity pools held within card funding vehicles, which partially offset higher insurance related premiums. o MARKETING AND PROMOTION EXPENSES: Increased 20% from the launch of the new brand advertising campaign, the introduction of the new charge cards with Membership Rewards built-in and the Cash Rebate card, more loyalty marketing and a step-up in selected card acquisition activities. o OTHER PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES AND CLAIMS: Decreased 9% due to a higher level last year of reserve additions related to credit exposures to travel industry service establishments. o CHARGE CARD INTEREST EXPENSE: Declined 33% due to a lower effective cost of funds and lower average receivable balance. o HUMAN RESOURCE EXPENSES: Decreased 12% versus last year as a result of a lower number of employees reflecting reengineering activities, including our technology outsourcing agreement. o OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES: Were up 14% as higher costs related to Cardmember loyalty programs, $61MM of losses in 2002, primarily on internet-related strategic investments, as well as the impact of the technology outsourcing agreement, which transferred costs from human resources, were partially offset by reengineering initiatives and cost containment efforts. o CREDIT PROVISIONS: - The provision for losses on charge card products decreased 22% on an improved past due rate and loss ratio. The net loss ratio decreased to 0.38% from 0.42% last year. * - The lending provision for losses was 10% above last year on growth in outstanding loans and increased reserve coverage levels. The net write-off rate for 2002 was 6.0% versus 5.6% in 2001. ** * There are no off-balance sheet Charge Card securitizations in 2002. Therefore, year-end "Owned basis" and "Managed basis" credit quality statistics are the same. ** As previously described, this information is presented on a "Managed basis". "Owned basis" credit quality statistics are available in the Fourth Quarter/Full Year 2002 Earnings Release on the Selected Statistical Information page. Credit trends are generally consistent under both reporting methods. -22-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FULL YEAR 2002 OVERVIEW AMERICAN EXPRESS FINANCIAL ADVISORS # Denotes variance in excess of 100%. o Net income increased to $632MM from $52MM last year. - 2002 results include: -- The 2Q '02 pre-tax investment loss of $71MM ($46MM after-tax) on WorldCom debt securities; -- The net $44MM pre-tax ($29MM after-tax) 3Q '02 increase in DAC expenses and its related revision of the types and amounts of DAC cost deferrals; and -- A $7MM pre-tax ($4MM after-tax) benefit in 2Q '02 related to an adjustment to last year's disaster recovery costs to reflect actual costs incurred. - 2001 results include: -- $1.0B of pre-tax losses ($669MM after-tax) in 1Q '01 and 2Q '01 from the write-down and sale of certain high yield securities and the reduction of the risk profile within AEFA's investment portfolio; -- Restructuring charges of $107MM ($70MM after-tax); -- $67MM pre-tax unfavorable adjustment of DAC for variable insurance and annuity products during 1Q '01; and -- An $11MM ($8MM after-tax) disaster recovery charge for costs related to life insurance claims by clients impacted by the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. o Total revenues increased 17% due to: - Higher investment income reflecting the impact of the $1.0B pre-tax investment losses in 1Q '01 and 2Q '01 and, in 2002, higher invested assets; - Higher insurance premiums and advice services fees; and - Higher distribution fees; partially offset by - Reduced management fees from lower average managed asset levels. o The pretax margin was 15.4% in 2002. o The effective tax rate was 26.9% in 2002. -23-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FULL YEAR 2002 OVERVIEW AMERICAN EXPRESS FINANCIAL ADVISORS (CONT'D) o SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION - NET REVENUES: In the following table, the Company presents AEFA's aggregate revenues on a basis that is net of provisions for losses and benefits because the Company manages the AEFA business and evaluates its financial performance, where appropriate, in terms of the "spread" on its products. An important part of AEFA's business is margin related, particularly the insurance, annuity and certificate businesses. One of the gross margin drivers for the AEFA business is the return on invested cash, primarily generated by sales of insurance, annuity and investment certificates, less provisions for losses and benefits on these products. These investments tend to be interest rate sensitive. Thus, GAAP revenues tend to be higher in periods of rising interest rates, and lower in times of decreasing interest rates. The same relationship is true of provisions, only it is more accentuated period-to-period. The Company manages this portion of the AEFA business on a net basis to eliminate potentially less informative comparisons of period-to-period changes in revenue and provisions for losses and benefits in light of the impact of these changes in interest rates. - On a net revenue basis, the pretax margin was 23.6% in 2002. o INVESTMENT INCOME: - Gross investment income increased 77% reflecting the effect of the $1.0B investment losses in 1Q '01 and 2Q '01, higher average assets and the effect of depreciation in the S&P 500 this year on the value of options hedging outstanding stock market certificates and equity indexed annuities, which was offset in the related provisions. A lower average yield, partially resulting from the repositioning of the portfolio in 2001, negatively impacted this comparison. - Average invested assets of $37.5B (excluding unrealized appreciation/depreciation) rose 10% versus $34.1B in 2001. - The average yield on invested assets was 5.9% versus 6.2% in 2001. - Excluding the impact of the 1Q '01 and 2Q '01 income adjustments on the high-yield structured investments, underlying net interest spreads within the insurance and annuity products were down versus last year, while certificate spreads were up. o MANAGEMENT AND DISTRIBUTION FEES: The decrease of 7% was due to lower average assets under management, partially offset by higher distribution fees, as the impact of lower mutual fund sales was more than offset by other product related sales increases. o PRODUCT SALES: - Total gross cash sales from all products were flat versus 2001 as improvement within the retail channel was offset by lower institutional channel sales. Branded advisor-generated sales were up 1% on a cash basis and up 7% as measured on the internally used "gross dealer concession basis", which weights the sales of various products to reflect their individual profitability dynamics. - Mutual fund sales decreased 5% as proprietary fund sales declined, while non-proprietary sales increased. A significant portion of non-proprietary sales continued to occur in "wrap" accounts. Within proprietary funds: -- Sales of bond, equity and money market funds all declined. -- Redemption rates held relatively steady and continued to compare favorably with industry levels. - Annuity sales increased 51% on strong growth in both fixed and variable annuity sales. - Sales of insurance products fell 21% reflecting lower sales of life products, partially offset by higher property-casualty sales, in part due to sales through Costco. - Certificate sales increased 8% reflecting strong advisor sales and increased sales of certificates sold to clients outside the U.S. through a joint venture between AEFA and AEB. -24-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FULL YEAR 2002 OVERVIEW AMERICAN EXPRESS FINANCIAL ADVISORS (CONT'D) o PRODUCT SALES (CONT'D): - Institutional sales declined 26% versus last year, primarily reflecting lower new sales and, to a lesser extent, lower additional contributions. - Other sales were down 1% due to lower new 401(k) plan sales, partially offset by sales growth in limited partnerships and wealth management account activities. - Advisor product sales generated through financial planning and advice services were 73% of total sales in both periods. o OTHER REVENUES: Were up 8% on higher life and property-casualty insurance premiums and charges, coupled with higher financial planning and advice services fees. - Financial planning and advice services fees of $114MM rose 6% versus 2001. o PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES AND BENEFITS: Annuity product provisions increased reflecting a higher inforce level, increased costs of $21MM related to guaranteed minimum death benefits, and the effect of depreciation in the S&P 500 on equity indexed annuities, partially offset by a lower accrual rate. Insurance provisions rose due to higher inforce levels and higher claims, partially offset by a lower accrual rate. Certificate provisions decreased as higher average reserve levels and the effect on the stock market certificate product of depreciation this year in the S&P 500, were more than offset by lower accrual rates. o HUMAN RESOURCES: Expenses declined 4% reflecting lower field force compensation-related costs and the benefits of reengineering and cost containment initiatives within the home office, where average employees were down 15% versus last year. 2001 included an unfavorable DAC adjustment of $39MM. o OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES: The 19% increase reflects the impact of technology outsourcing, which resulted in the transfer of costs from human resources, a higher minority interest related to premium deposits (the joint venture with AEB), and the $44MM net expenses related to AEFA's 3Q '02 DAC adjustment, including its revision of the types and amounts of DAC cost deferrals. In 2001, other operating expenses included an unfavorable DAC adjustment of $28MM. -25-
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FULL YEAR 2002 OVERVIEW AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK # Denotes variance in excess of 100%. o Net income increased substantially, on a solid operating performance in 2002 and, in part, as a result of last year's restructuring charges of $96MM pre-tax ($65MM after-tax). - 2002 results include a net pre-tax benefit of $3MM ($2MM after-tax) reflecting an adjustment to last year's restructuring charge reserve of $8MM ($5MM after-tax), which was partially offset by a 2002 restructuring charge of $5MM ($3MM after-tax) reflecting the Bank's efforts to further rationalize certain operations. o Net revenues grew 15% on higher net interest income and foreign exchange and other revenue. - Net interest income rose 19%, primarily due to lower funding costs. - Commissions and fees increased 6% due to growth in loan acquisitions in the Personal Financial Services (PFS) business and greater non-credit transactions in the Financial Institutions Group, partially offset by lower results in Corporate Banking. - Foreign exchange income & other revenue increased 18% on higher revenue from lower funding costs within premium deposits (the joint venture with AEFA). Foreign currency-related revenues were lower than a year ago. o Human resource and other operating expenses combined were down 4% reflecting the benefits of reengineering activities and tighter expense controls. o The provision for losses increased, mainly due to higher bankruptcy related write-offs in the consumer lending portfolio in Hong Kong. -26-
INFORMATION RELATING TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THIS DOCUMENT INCLUDES FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. THE WORDS "BELIEVE," "EXPECT," "ANTICIPATE," "OPTIMISTIC," "INTEND," "PLAN," "AIM," "WILL," "SHOULD," "COULD," "LIKELY," AND SIMILAR EXPRESSIONS ARE INTENDED TO IDENTIFY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. READERS ARE CAUTIONED NOT TO PLACE UNDUE RELIANCE ON THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS, WHICH SPEAK ONLY AS OF THE DATE ON WHICH THEY ARE MADE. THE COMPANY UNDERTAKES NO OBLIGATION TO UPDATE OR REVISE ANY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS INCLUDE, BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO: THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO SUCCESSFULLY IMPLEMENT A BUSINESS MODEL THAT ALLOWS FOR SIGNIFICANT EARNINGS GROWTH BASED ON REVENUE GROWTH THAT IS LOWER THAN HISTORICAL LEVELS, INCLUDING THE ABILITY TO IMPROVE ITS OPERATING EXPENSE TO REVENUE RATIO BOTH IN THE SHORT-TERM AND OVER TIME, WHICH WILL DEPEND IN PART ON THE EFFECTIVENESS OF REENGINEERING AND OTHER COST CONTROL INITIATIVES, AS WELL AS FACTORS IMPACTING THE COMPANY'S REVENUES; THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO GROW ITS BUSINESS AND MEET OR EXCEED ITS RETURN ON EQUITY TARGET BY REINVESTING APPROXIMATELY 35% OF ANNUALLY-GENERATED CAPITAL, AND RETURNING APPROXIMATELY 65% OF SUCH CAPITAL TO SHAREHOLDERS, OVER TIME, WHICH WILL DEPEND ON THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO MANAGE ITS CAPITAL NEEDS AND THE EFFECT OF BUSINESS MIX, ACQUISITIONS AND RATING AGENCY REQUIREMENTS; THE ABILITY TO INCREASE INVESTMENT SPENDING, WHICH WILL DEPEND IN PART ON THE EQUITY MARKETS AND OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING REVENUES, AND THE ABILITY TO CAPITALIZE ON SUCH INVESTMENTS TO IMPROVE BUSINESS METRICS; FLUCTUATION IN THE EQUITY MARKETS, WHICH CAN AFFECT THE AMOUNT AND TYPES OF INVESTMENT PRODUCTS SOLD BY AEFA, THE MARKET VALUE OF ITS MANAGED ASSETS, MANAGEMENT AND DISTRIBUTION FEES RECEIVED BASED ON THOSE ASSETS AND THE AMOUNT OF AMORTIZATION OF DAC; POTENTIAL DETERIORATION IN AEFA'S HIGH-YIELD AND OTHER INVESTMENTS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN FURTHER LOSSES IN AEFA'S INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO; THE ABILITY OF AEFA TO SELL CERTAIN HIGH-YIELD INVESTMENTS AT EXPECTED VALUES AND WITHIN ANTICIPATED TIMEFRAMES AND TO MAINTAIN ITS HIGH-YIELD PORTFOLIO AT CERTAIN LEVELS IN THE FUTURE; DEVELOPMENTS RELATING TO AEFA'S PLATFORM STRUCTURE FOR FINANCIAL ADVISORS, INCLUDING THE ABILITY TO INCREASE ADVISOR PRODUCTIVITY, INCREASE THE GROWTH OF PRODUCTIVE NEW ADVISORS AND CREATE EFFICIENCIES IN THE INFRASTRUCTURE; AEFA'S ABILITY TO ROLL OUT NEW AND ATTRACTIVE PRODUCTS IN A TIMELY MANNER AND EFFECTIVELY MANAGE THE ECONOMICS IN SELLING A GROWING VOLUME OF NON-PROPRIETARY PRODUCTS; INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE IN AEFA'S BUSINESSES; THE SUCCESS, TIMELINESS AND FINANCIAL IMPACT, INCLUDING COSTS, COST SAVINGS AND OTHER BENEFITS, OF REENGINEERING INITIATIVES BEING IMPLEMENTED OR CONSIDERED BY THE COMPANY, INCLUDING COST MANAGEMENT, STRUCTURAL AND STRATEGIC MEASURES SUCH AS VENDOR, PROCESS, FACILITIES AND OPERATIONS CONSOLIDATION, OUTSOURCING (INCLUDING, AMONG OTHERS, TECHNOLOGIES OPERATIONS), RELOCATING CERTAIN FUNCTIONS TO LOWER COST OVERSEAS LOCATIONS, MOVING INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL FUNCTIONS TO THE INTERNET TO SAVE COSTS, THE SCALE-BACK OF CORPORATE LENDING IN CERTAIN REGIONS, AND PLANNED STAFF REDUCTIONS RELATING TO CERTAIN OF SUCH REENGINEERING ACTIONS; THE ABILITY TO CONTROL AND MANAGE OPERATING, INFRASTRUCTURE, ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION AND OTHER EXPENSES AS BUSINESS EXPANDS OR CHANGES, INCLUDING BALANCING THE NEED FOR LONGER-TERM INVESTMENT SPENDING; THE IMPACT ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESSES AND UNCERTAINTY CREATED BY THE SEPTEMBER 11TH TERRORIST ATTACKS, AND THE POTENTIAL NEGATIVE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESSES AND INFRASTRUCTURE, INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS, OF ANY SUCH ATTACKS OR DISASTER IN THE FUTURE; THE IMPACT ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESSES RESULTING FROM A WAR WITH IRAQ; THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO RECOVER UNDER ITS INSURANCE POLICIES FOR LOSSES RESULTING FROM THE SEPTEMBER 11TH TERRORIST ATTACKS; CONSUMER AND BUSINESS SPENDING ON THE COMPANY'S TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES PRODUCTS, PARTICULARLY CREDIT AND CHARGE CARDS AND GROWTH IN CARD LENDING BALANCES, WHICH DEPEND IN PART ON THE ABILITY TO ISSUE NEW AND ENHANCED CARD PRODUCTS AND INCREASE REVENUES FROM SUCH PRODUCTS, ATTRACT NEW CARDHOLDERS, CAPTURE A GREATER SHARE OF EXISTING CARDHOLDERS' SPENDING, SUSTAIN PREMIUM DISCOUNT RATES, INCREASE MERCHANT COVERAGE, RETAIN CARDMEMBERS AFTER LOW INTRODUCTORY LENDING RATES HAVE EXPIRED, AND EXPAND THE GLOBAL NETWORK SERVICES BUSINESS; THE ABILITY TO EXECUTE THE COMPANY'S GLOBAL CORPORATE SERVICES STRATEGY, INCLUDING GREATER PENETRATION OF MIDDLE MARKET COMPANIES, INCREASING CAPTURE OF NON-T&E SPENDING THROUGH GREATER USE OF THE COMPANY'S PURCHASING CARD AND OTHER MEANS, AND FURTHER GLOBALIZING BUSINESS CAPABILITIES; THE ABILITY TO MANAGE AND EXPAND CARDMEMBER BENEFITS, INCLUDING MEMBERSHIP REWARDS(R), IN A COST EFFECTIVE MANNER; THE TRIGGERING OF OBLIGATIONS TO MAKE PAYMENTS TO CERTAIN CO-BRAND PARTNERS, MERCHANTS, VENDORS AND CUSTOMERS UNDER CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS WITH SUCH PARTIES UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES; SUCCESSFULLY EXPANDING THE COMPANY'S ON-LINE AND OFF-LINE DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS AND CROSS-SELLING FINANCIAL, TRAVEL, CARD AND OTHER PRODUCTS AND SERVICES TO ITS CUSTOMER BASE, BOTH IN THE U.S. AND ABROAD; EFFECTIVELY LEVERAGING THE COMPANY'S ASSETS, SUCH AS ITS BRAND, CUSTOMERS AND INTERNATIONAL PRESENCE, IN THE INTERNET ENVIRONMENT; INVESTING IN AND COMPETING AT THE LEADING EDGE OF TECHNOLOGY ACROSS ALL BUSINESSES; A DOWNTURN IN THE COMPANY'S BUSINESSES AND/OR NEGATIVE CHANGES IN THE COMPANY'S AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES' CREDIT RATINGS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN CONTINGENT PAYMENTS UNDER CONTRACTS, DECREASED LIQUIDITY AND HIGHER BORROWING COSTS; INCREASING COMPETITION IN ALL OF THE COMPANY'S MAJOR BUSINESSES; FLUCTUATIONS IN INTEREST RATES, WHICH IMPACT THE COMPANY'S BORROWING COSTS, RETURN ON LENDING PRODUCTS AND SPREADS IN THE INVESTMENT AND INSURANCE BUSINESSES; CREDIT TRENDS AND THE RATE OF BANKRUPTCIES, WHICH CAN AFFECT SPENDING ON CARD PRODUCTS, DEBT PAYMENTS BY INDIVIDUAL AND CORPORATE CUSTOMERS AND BUSINESSES THAT ACCEPT THE COMPANY'S CARD PRODUCTS AND RETURNS ON THE COMPANY'S INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS; FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES; POLITICAL OR ECONOMIC INSTABILITY IN CERTAIN REGIONS OR COUNTRIES, WHICH COULD AFFECT LENDING ACTIVITIES, AMONG OTHER BUSINESSES; LEGAL AND REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS, SUCH AS IN THE AREAS OF CONSUMER PRIVACY AND DATA PROTECTION; ACQUISITIONS; THE ADOPTION OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING RULES RELATED TO THE CONSOLIDATION OF SPECIAL PURPOSE ENTITIES, INCLUDING THOSE INVOLVING COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS, STRUCTURED LOAN TRUSTS, MUTUAL FUNDS, HEDGE FUNDS AND LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS THAT THE COMPANY MANAGES AND/OR INVESTS IN, WHICH COULD AFFECT BOTH THE COMPANY'S BALANCE SHEET AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS; AND OUTCOMES IN LITIGATION. A FURTHER DESCRIPTION OF THESE AND OTHER RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CAN BE FOUND IN THE COMPANY'S ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001, AND ITS OTHER REPORTS FILED WITH THE SEC. -27-


