FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20051223145908.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 20, 2005 AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) New York 1-7657 13-4922250 - ----------------------------- ------------------------ ------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of incorporation Identification No.) or organization) 200 Vesey Street, World Financial Center New York, New York 10285 - ---------------------------------------- ---------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 640-2000 --------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) ================================================================================
ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE On December 20, 2005, American Express Company and Citibank issued a joint press release announcing the launch of the Citi American Express Cards, a new line of credit cards issued by Citibank for use on the American Express Network. A copy of such press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated herein by reference. On December 21, 2005, American Express Company and Bank of America issued a joint press release announcing that Bank of America will issue Bank of America-branded American Express cards in the United States. A copy of such press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2 and is hereby incorporated herein by reference. On December 23, 2005, American Express Company and HSBC - North America Holdings, Inc. issued a joint press release announcing that HSBC will offer American Express-branded credit cards in the United States. A copy of such press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.3 and is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Exhibit 99.1 Information from joint press release dated December 20, 2005 by American Express Company and Citibank. 99.2 Information from joint press release dated December 21, 2005 by American Express Company and Bank of America. 99.3 Information from joint press release dated December 23, 2005 by American Express Company and HSBC - North America Holdings, Inc.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY (REGISTRANT) By /s/ Stephen P. Norman -------------------------- Name: Stephen P. Norman Title: Secretary DATE: December 23, 2005
EXHIBIT INDEX Item No. Description - -------- ----------- 99.1 Information from joint press release dated December 20, 2005 by American Express Company and Citibank. 99.2 Information from joint press release dated December 21, 2005 by American Express Company and Bank of America. 99.3 Information from joint press release dated December 23, 2005 by American Express Company and HSBC - North America Holdings, Inc.

EXHIBIT 99.1 CITI(R) LAUNCHES NEW LINE OF CREDIT CARDS ON THE AMERICAN EXPRESS(R) NETWORK Introduces Suite of Products, Providing Credit Card Essentials, Worldwide Acceptance and No-Fee Extras NEW YORK, December 20, 2005 -- Citibank(R) and American Express(R) announce today that they will offer consumers Citibank premium benefits and customer service through cards that are accepted wherever American Express is welcome. Plus, many of the new Citi American Express Cards reward cardmembers for doing what they already do, like making purchases at grocery and drug stores, or putting gas in the car. "We're excited by this new relationship, and the prospect of providing our customers and prospective customers with the superior benefits and services these new cards will have," says Vik Atal, Chairman and CEO, Citi Cards North America. "As always, we're committed to exceptional customer service, and by issuing some of our most popular card products on the American Express Network, we're offering customers many of the features and benefits they want in a credit card." Peter Godfrey, President of American Express Global Network Services adds, "This partnership brings together two highly successful and internationally recognized brands for the benefit of all cardmembers looking for high quality products and service. We are delighted that Citibank is providing consumers with a credit card on the American Express Network that allows them to experience the best of both worlds." The Citi American Express Cards offer value, rewards and cash-back benefits. The initial offerings will begin later this month, and the full suite of card products will be available to consumers as of January 15, 2006: - The CITI(R) PLATINUM AMERICAN EXPRESS(R) CARD, a no-annual fee card, offers points on purchases through ThankYou Network, Citi's no-fee rewards program featuring a variety of merchandise, travel and gift cards at leading retailers and restaurants. Cardmembers will enjoy services to source hard-to-find tickets to shows, concerts and sporting events along with direct access to a live customer service representative 24 hours a day. A special 12 month introductory offer provides a 0% APR on eligible balance transfers. - The CITI(R) DIVIDEND AMERICAN EXPRESS(R) CARD enables cardmembers to earn 5% cash back on purchases at supermarkets, drug stores and gas stations; 1% cash back on other purchases and eligible cash advances; and cash back on eligible balance transfers. Cardmembers also pay no annual fee. - The CITI(R)/AADVANTAGE(R) AMERICAN EXPRESS(R) CARD allows cardmembers to earn one American Airlines AAdvantage(R) mile for every dollar they spend on purchases - up to 60,000 miles per calendar year. - The CITI PREMIERPASS(R) AMERICAN EXPRESS(R) CARD, with no-annual fee, offers cardmembers one ThankYou Point for every three miles flown on any airline and one ThankYou Point for every dollar spent on purchases - up to 100,000 ThankYou Points per year, up to 50,000 of which can be earned for miles flown. - THE CITI(R) DIAMOND PREFERRED REWARDS AMERICAN EXPRESS(R) CARD offers cardmembers five ThankYou Points on purchases made at supermarkets, drug stores and gas stations and one ThankYou Point for every dollar spent on other purchases during their first year of cardmembership. Thereafter, cardmembers will earn one ThankYou Point on all eligible purchases. -1-
Other benefits of the Citi American Express suite of cards include: - $0 Liability on unauthorized purchases - 24/7 customer service - Citi Identity Theft Solutions and Fraud Early Warning - Pay over time or pay in full - Worldwide Car Rental Loss & Damage Insurance - 24-hour Emergency Assistance Services - Worldwide Travel Accident Insurance - Access to more than 2,200 American Express Travel Services locations Price Protection, Retail Protection and Extended Warranty - Deals and discounts - Worldwide acceptance of American Express For more information or to apply for a Citi American Express Card after January 15th, call 1-866-451-2484. Additional terms, conditions, and limitations apply to all these products. ABOUT CITI Citi is a member of Citigroup (NYSE: C). Citigroup, the leading global financial services company, has some 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 100 countries, providing consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, and wealth management. Major brand names under Citigroup's trademark red umbrella include Citibank, CitiFinancial, Primerica, Smith Barney and Banamex. Additional information may be found at www.citigroup.com. ABOUT AMERICAN EXPRESS American Express Company (NYSE: AXP) is a diversified worldwide travel, financial and network services company, founded in 1850. It is a world leader in charge and credit cards, Travellers Cheques, travel, and business services. Since 1996 American Express has been aggressively pursuing a strategy of opening its merchant network and card product portfolio to third party issuers around the world. By leveraging its global infrastructure and the powerful appeal of the brand, American Express aims to gain even broader reach for its network worldwide. American Express has now established 93 card-issuing partnership arrangements in more than 100 countries. Contacts: Keri Buster 212.640.6193 Keri.K.Buster@aexp.com -2-

EXHIBIT 99.2 December 21, 2005 Reporters may contact: Keri Buster, American Express, 212.640.6193 Betty Riess, Bank of America, 415.622.6397 Betty.Riess@bankofamerica.com BANK OF AMERICA AND AMERICAN EXPRESS FORM CARD ALLIANCE Landmark agreement provides Bank of America customers with more card choices; MBNA to continue issuing American Express Cards Charlotte, NC and New York, NY - Bank of America and American Express today announced that Bank of America will issue Bank of America branded American Express Cards in the United States. Under the terms of the agreement, Bank of America will issue and market the cards through its vast distribution network including more than 5,800 banking centers and its industry leading online banking service. It also will be responsible for billing, customer service and charge authorizations. Bank of America will own the customer loans and receivables. American Express will process transactions through its merchant network and the cards will be welcomed at millions of locations worldwide. Through this partnership Bank of America will be able to expand its product offerings and deliver broader choice, value and convenience to existing customers and new prospects. Cardholders will have access to a broad range of travel and retail benefits as well as offers from American Express merchants worldwide. Bank of America will start issuing the cards later next year. Financial terms of the agreement were not disclosed. The companies also confirmed the card-issuing partnership between MBNA and American Express will continue. In January 2004, MBNA became the first U.S. financial institution to sign a network partnership with American Express. Earlier this year, Bank of America announced its agreement to acquire MBNA. "This agreement marks the beginning of a new era of partnership between two of the world's premier financial services brands," said Ken Lewis, chairman and CEO of Bank of America. "The addition of the American Express card to the existing Bank of America product offerings, coupled with the suite of affinity card products offered by MBNA, underscores the power of our franchise to provide our customers with unparalleled choice and convenience." "Bank of America is one of the world's great financial institutions," said Ken Chenault, chairman and CEO of American Express. "It is known for its innovation and commitment to outstanding customer service. We are delighted to be working together and to continue our partnership with MBNA, which has been among the most successful in our history. Our work with MBNA has delivered compelling new products for high-spending consumers. In addition to generating significant benefits for both our companies, it also helped to set the stage for today's agreement and the terrific opportunity it represents." Separately, American Express has announced its intention to dismiss Bank of America from its antitrust litigation against Visa, MasterCard and a number of major U.S. banks. -1-
ABOUT BANK OF AMERICA Bank of America is one of the world's largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small and middle market businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk-management products and services. The company provides unmatched convenience in the United States, serving more than 38 million consumer and small business relationships with more than 5,800 retail banking offices, more than 16,700 ATMs and award-winning online banking with more than 14 million active users. Bank of America is the No. 1 overall Small Business Administration (SBA) lender in the United States and the No. 1 SBA lender to minority-owned small businesses. The company serves clients in 150 countries and has relationships with 97 percent of the U.S. Fortune 500 companies and 79 percent of the Global Fortune 500. Bank of America Corporation stock (NYSE: BAC) is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. ABOUT AMERICAN EXPRESS American Express Company (NYSE: AXP) is a diversified worldwide travel, financial and network services company, founded in 1850. It is a world leader in charge and credit cards, Travellers Cheques, travel and business services. Since 1996 American Express has been aggressively pursuing a strategy of opening its merchant network and card product portfolio to third party issuers around the world. By leveraging its global infrastructure and the powerful appeal of the brand, American Express aims to gain even broader reach for its network worldwide. American Express has now established 93 card-issuing partnership arrangements in more than 100 countries. -2-

EXHIBIT 99.3 News Release News Release News Release News Re [LOGO OF AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY] [LOGO OF HSBC] FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE HSBC AND AMERICAN EXPRESS ANNOUNCE CARD-ISSUING ALLIANCE Prospect Heights, Ill, and New York, NY, December 23, 2005 -- HSBC - North America Holdings, Inc. and American Express today announced an agreement for HSBC to offer American Express-branded credit cards in the United States. Under the terms of the agreement, HSBC will issue the cards, manage customer relationships and be responsible for all marketing, billing, charge authorizations and credit management. American Express will process transactions through its merchant network and the cards will be welcomed at millions of locations worldwide. HSBC expects to begin issuing cards in mid-2006. Financial terms of the agreement were not disclosed. HSBC is one of the world's largest card issuers. The partnership with American Express will allow HSBC to expand its product range and offer broader choice, value and convenience to customers and prospects. "HSBC is pleased to embark on a key partnership with American Express," said Walter Menezes, group executive-HSBC Card Services. "The addition of the American Express card to the existing HSBC product offerings will provide consumers with a broader scope of quality services." "We are delighted to enter into this agreement with a world-class organization like HSBC," said Barry Rodrigues, executive vice president of American Express' Global Network Services. "We look forward to working closely with our newest partner to provide a compelling new line of premium products." Separately, American Express announced that it will dismiss HSBC from its antitrust litigation against Visa, MasterCard and a number of major U.S. banks. ABOUT HSBC - NORTH AMERICA HOLDINGS HSBC - North America comprises all of HSBC's U.S. and Canadian businesses, including the former Household International businesses. The company's businesses serve more than 60 million customers in five key areas: personal financial services, consumer finance, commercial banking, private banking and corporate, investment banking and markets. Financial products and services are offered under the HSBC, HFC and Beneficial brands. ABOUT AMERICAN EXPRESS American Express Company is a diversified worldwide travel, financial and network services company, founded in 1850. It is a world leader in charge and credit cards, Travelers Cheques, travel, financial planning, and business services. American Express has been aggressively pursuing a strategy of opening its merchant network to third party issuers around the world. By leveraging its global infrastructure and the powerful appeal of the American Express brand, American Express aims to gain even broader reach for its network worldwide. American Express has now established more than 90 card-issuing partnership arrangements in more than 100 countries. Contacts: Judy Tenzer 212.640.0555 Judy.G.Tenzer@aexp.com


