FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20050128170253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 22, 2004 AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) New York 1-7657 13-4922250 - ----------------------------- ------------------------ ------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of incorporation Identification No.) or organization) 200 Vesey Street, World Financial Center New York, New York 10285 ---------------------------------------- ---------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 640-2000 --------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act - --- (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act - --- (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the - --- Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the - --- Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)) ================================================================================
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT On January 24, 2005, the Compensation and Benefits Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors of American Express Company (the "Company") approved the annual base salaries (effective as of such date) of the Company's executive officers after a review of performance and competitive market data. The following table sets forth the annual base salary levels of the Company's Named Executive Officers (which officers were determined by reference to the Company's proxy statement, dated March 10, 2004) for 2005 and 2004: NAME AND POSITION YEAR BASE SALARY Kenneth I. Chenault 2005 $1,100,000 Chairman and Chief 2004 1,000,000 Executive Officer James M. Cracchiolo 2005 475,000 Group President 2004 475,000 Global Financial Services Gary L. Crittenden 2005 575,000 Executive Vice President 2004 500,000 and Chief Financial Officer Edward P. Gilligan 2005 575,000 Group President 2004 460,000 Global Corporate Services and International Payments Alfred F. Kelly, Jr. 2005 575,000 Group President 2004 475,000 U.S. Consumer and Small Business Services Also, on January 24, 2005, the Compensation Committee authorized the payment of annual incentive (i.e., bonus) awards to each of the Company's executive officers in respect of the year ended December 31, 2004. The annual incentive awards were made pursuant to the Company's 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended (the "1998 Plan"). Consistent with past practice, the Compensation Committee used three factors to set the guidelines for these annual incentive awards: (1) competitive pay practices, (2) job scope and responsibility and (3) the Company's need to attract, retain and reward executive talent. The Compensation Committee retained external compensation consultants, who, among other things, benchmarked pay practices at companies that compete with the Company in its various businesses or for executive talent and advised the Compensation Committee in establishing compensation guidelines. The annual incentive awards were determined based on the Company's and each executive's performance during 2004 as measured against performance measures established early that year. The performance measures included financial measures (shareholder return, earnings per share, return on equity, revenue growth, reengineering, etc.), as well as employee survey results, expansion and retention of the customer base, development of products and services, retention of talented employees and other factors. In addition, the Compensation Committee evaluated each executive's leadership by considering a variety of factors, including, among others, developing winning strategies, driving results and focusing on the customer and client. The following table sets forth cash payments to the Named Executive Officers in respect of their annual incentive awards for 2004 and 2003: NAME YEAR ANNUAL INCENTIVE AWARD Mr. Chenault 2004 $6,000,000 (1) 2003 3,500,000 (2) Mr. Cracchiolo 2004 3,050,000 (1) 2003 1,010,000 (2) Mr. Crittenden 2004 1,445,000 2003 910,000 (2) Mr. Gilligan 2004 1,445,000 2003 895,000 (2) Mr. Kelly 2004 1,795,000 2003 1,090,000 (2) (1) In addition to the above cash payments, the Compensation Committee authorized restricted stock awards of 17,213 shares to Mr. Chenault and 19,125 shares to Mr. Cracchiolo in respect of their respective 2004 annual incentive awards. (2) In addition to the above cash payments, the Compensation Committee authorized the following restricted stock awards to the Named Executive Officers in respect of their 2003 annual incentive awards: 17,416 shares to Mr. Chenault, 4,976 shares to Mr. Cracchiolo; 4,478 shares to Mr. Crittenden; 4,378 shares to Mr. Gilligan; and 5,473 shares to Mr. Kelly. In addition to the establishment of base salaries in respect of 2005 and the determination of annual incentive awards in respect of 2004, on January 24, 2005, the Compensation Committee authorized payments to the Company's executive officers of long-term incentive awards, which were granted in 2002. The values for these awards were based in part on the Company's earnings per share growth, revenue growth and average return on equity over the 2002 - 2004 period, and in part on the Company's total shareholder return compared to that of the S&P Financial Index over the 2002 - 2004 period. The following table sets forth the long term incentive payouts to be made to the Company's Named Executive Officers in respect of the 2002 - 2004 performance period (which are payable in February 2005), as well as the long term incentive payouts made to the Named Executive Officers in respect of the 2001 - 2003 performance period (which were paid in February 2004): NAME PERFORMANCE PERIOD LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PAYOUT Mr. Chenault 2002 - 2004 $2,610,000 (1) 2001 - 2003 2,484,000 Mr. Cracchiolo 2002 - 2004 1,239,750 2001 - 2003 1,311,000 Mr. Crittenden 2002 - 2004 1,239,750 2001 - 2003 1,311,000 Mr. Gilligan 2002 - 2004 1,044,000 2001 - 2003 1,104,000 Mr. Kelly 2002 - 2004 1,239,750 2001 - 2003 1,311,000 (1) Mr. Chenault's award consists of $500,000 cash and a restricted stock award of 40,355 shares of the Company's common stock (with a value determined by reference to the average of the high and low prices of the Company's common stock on January 24, 2005). Also on January 24, 2005, the Compensation Committee approved grants of ten-year non-qualified stock options and restricted stock awards to each of the Named Executive Officers pursuant to the 1998 Plan. The following table sets forth information regarding grants of stock options and restricted stock awards to the Named Executive Officers made on January 24, 2005 and January 26, 2004: (1) Options vest in four equal annual installments beginning on first anniversary of date of grant, subject to continuous employment. (2) Mr. Chenault's shares include 17,213 shares described above that were awarded in connection with the payment of his annual incentive award and 40,355 shares described above that were awarded in connection with the payment in respect of his long-term incentive payout. Mr. Cracchiolo's shares reflect 19,125 shares described above that were awarded in connection with his annual incentive award. (3) Of the shares awarded to Mr. Chenault in January 2005, (i) 36,338 shares will vest in four equal annual installments beginning on January 24, 2006, subject to continuous employment and the Company's achievement of certain financial performance requirements during the vesting periods and (ii) 40,355 shares will vest on January 24, 2006, subject to continuous employment. The shares awarded to Mr. Chenault in January 2004 reflect the 17,416 shares described above that were awarded in connection with the 2003 annual incentive award. Of those shares approximately half vest in three equal annual installments beginning January 26, 2005, subject to continuous employment and the Company's achievement of certain financial performance requirements during the vesting periods and approximately half vest in three equal installments beginning January 26, 2005, subject to continuous employment. (4) Shares will vest in four equal annual installments beginning on January 24, 2006, subject to continuous employment and the Company's achievement of certain financial performance requirements during the vesting periods. (5) Reflects those shares described above that were awarded in connection with the executive's 2003 annual incentive award. Shares vest in three equal annual installments beginning January 26, 2005, subject to continuous employment. The Company intends to provide additional information regarding the compensation awarded to the Named Executive Officers in respect of and during the year ended December 1, 2004, in the proxy statement for the Company's 2005 annual meeting of stockholders, which is expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in March 2005. In addition, on January 24, 2005, upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board, the Board approved the terms of the compensation to be paid to each non-management director of the Board in respect of his/her service on the Board. A summary describing the elements of such compensation is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and is hereby incorporated by reference. On November 22, 2004, the Compensation Committee approved certain amendments to the Company's Pay-for-Performance Deferral Program primarily to reduce the overall schedule of rates at which interest equivalents are credited to deferred amounts and comply with the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. A brief summary of the terms and conditions of the Pay-for-Performance Deferral Program is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this report and is hereby incorporated by reference. ITEM 5.03 AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BYLAWS; CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR On January 24, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company approved certain amendments to the By-Laws of Company to require the Company to (i) indemnify any person for expenses incurred or other amounts paid in any threatened, pending or completed civil, criminal, administrative, legislative or investigative action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that such person is a director, officer or other employee of the Company and (ii) advance expenses incurred by directors and officers and other employees incurred in connection with any such action, suit or proceeding. Prior to the Board's adoption of the amendments, the right of employees of the Company (other than its officers) to indemnification and the right of directors and officers and other employees of the Company to advancement of expenses was discretionary on the part of the Board. A copy of the By-Laws, as amended, of the Company is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this report. ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS A copy of each of the Company's (i) Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors and Advisors, as amended through July 28, 2003, and (ii) 1989 Long-Term Incentive Plan Master Agreement, dated February 27, 1995, is filed as Exhibit 10.3 and Exhibit 10.4, respectively, to this report, and each is hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits - -------------- 3.1 By-Laws of American Express Company, as amended through January 24, 2005. 10.1 Description of Compensation Payable to Non-Management Directors. 10.2 Description of Pay-for-Performance Deferral Program. 10.3 Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors and Advisors, as amended through July 28, 2003. 10.4 American Express Company 1989 Long-Term Incentive Plan Master Agreement, date February 27, 1995.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY (REGISTRANT) By: /s/ Stephen P. Norman Name: Stephen P. Norman Title: Secretary DATE: January 28, 2005
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description - ------- ----------- 3.1 By-Laws of American Express Company, as amended through January 24, 2005. 10.1 Description of Compensation Payable to Non-Management Directors. 10.2 Description of Pay-for-Performance Deferral Program. 10.3 Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors and Advisors, as amended through July 28, 2003. 10.4 American Express Company 1989 Long-Term Incentive Plan Master Agreement, date February 27, 1995.

Exhibit 3.1 BY-LAWS OF AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY (A New York Corporation) (as amended through January 24, 2005)
BY-LAWS OF AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY ARTICLE I OFFICES SECTION 1.1 PRINCIPAL OFFICE. The principal office of the corporation within the State of New York shall be located in the City of New York, County of New York. SECTION 1.2 OTHER OFFICES. The corporation may have such other offices and places of business within and without the State of New York as the business of the corporation may require. ARTICLE II SHAREHOLDERS SECTION 2.1 ANNUAL MEETING. The annual meeting of the shareholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of other business shall be held at the principal office of the corporation within the State of New York, or at such other place either within or without the State of New York as may be fixed by the Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the "Board") from time to time. The annual meeting shall be held on such full business day in each year not earlier than March 15 nor later than April 30 and at such hour as shall be fixed by the Board, or on such other day and at such hour as shall be fixed by the Board. If the election of directors shall not be held on the date so fixed for the annual meeting, a special meeting of the shareholders for the election of directors shall be called forthwith in the manner provided herein for special meetings, or as may otherwise be provided by law. (B.C.L. Section 602.) SECTION 2.2 SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special Meetings of the shareholders may be held for such purpose or purposes as shall be specified in a call for such meeting made by resolution of the Board or by a majority of the directors then in office or by the Chief Executive Officer. - - ------------------- This and other references to the New York Business Corporation Law are not part of the by-laws, but are included solely for convenience in locating relevant portions of the statute. 1
At any such special meeting only such business may be transacted which is related to the purpose or purposes set forth in the notice of meeting. (B.C.L. Section 602(c). SECTION 2.3 NOTICE OF MEETINGS. Notice of all meetings of shareholders shall be in writing and shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting and such other matters as may be required by law. Notice of any special meeting shall also state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called and shall indicate that it is being issued by or at the direction of the person or persons calling the meeting. A copy of the notice of any meeting, shall be given, personally or by mail, not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, provided that a copy of such notice may be given by third class mail not less than twenty-four nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, to each shareholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, with postage thereon prepaid, directed to the shareholder at his address as it appears on the record of shareholders, or, if he shall have filed with the Secretary of the corporation a written request that notices to him be mailed at some other address, then directed to him at such other address. Notice of any adjourned meeting of the shareholders shall not be required if the time and place to which the meeting is adjourned are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, but if after the adjournment the Board or Chief Executive Officer fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each shareholder of record on the new record date. (B.C.L. Section 605.) SECTION 2.4 QUORUM AND VOTING. Except as otherwise provided by law or the certificate of incorporation, the holders of a majority of the votes of the shares entitled to vote thereat shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the shareholders for the transaction of any business, but a lesser interest may adjourn any meeting from time to time and from place to place until a quorum is obtained. Any business may be transacted at any adjourned meeting that might have been transacted at the original meeting. When a quorum is once present to organize a meeting of shareholders, it is not broken by the subsequent withdrawal of any shareholders. Directors shall, except as otherwise required by law or the certificate of incorporation or a by-law adopted by the shareholders, be elected by a plurality of the votes cast in favor of or against such action at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election. Any other corporate action taken by vote of the shareholders shall, except as otherwise required by law or the certificate of incorporation, be authorized by a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon. Every shareholder of record shall be entitled at every meeting of shareholders to one vote for each share standing in his name on the record of shareholders, unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation. Neither treasury shares, nor shares held by any other corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held by the corporation, shall be voted at any meeting or counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares then entitled to vote. (B.C.L. Sections 608, 614.) 2
SECTION 2.5 PROXIES. Every shareholder entitled to vote at a meeting of the shareholders may authorize another person to vote for him by proxy executed in writing (or in such manner permitted by law) by the shareholder or his attorney-in-fact. No proxy shall be valid after the expiration of eleven months from the date thereof, unless otherwise provided in the proxy. Every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of the shareholder executing it, except that a proxy which is entitled "irrevocable proxy" and which states that it is irrevocable shall be irrevocable when and to the extent permitted by law. (B.C.L. Section 609.) SECTION 2.6 LIST OF SHAREHOLDERS AT MEETINGS. A list of shareholders as of the record date, certified by the Secretary or by the transfer agent of the corporation, shall be produced at any meeting of shareholders upon the request thereat or prior thereto of any shareholder. If the right to vote at any meeting is challenged, the inspectors of election or person presiding thereat shall require such list of shareholders to be produced as evidence of the right of the persons challenged to vote at such meeting, and all persons who appear from such list to be shareholders entitled to vote thereat may vote at such meeting. (B.C.L. Section 607.) SECTION 2.7 WAIVER OF NOTICE. Notice of a shareholders' meeting need not be given to any shareholder who submits a signed waiver of notice, in person or by proxy, whether before or after the meeting. The attendance of any shareholder at a meeting, in person or by proxy, without protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of notice of such meeting, shall constitute a waiver of notice by him. (B.C.L. Section 606.) SECTION 2.8 INSPECTORS AT SHAREHOLDERS' MEETINGS. The Board, in advance of any shareholders' meeting, may appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof and to perform such duties thereat as are prescribed by law. If inspectors are not so appointed, the person presiding at a shareholders' meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors. In case any person appointed fails to appear or act, the vacancy may be filled by appointment made by the Board in advance of the meeting or at the meeting by the person presiding thereat. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability. (B.C.L. Section 610.) SECTION 2.9 BUSINESS TO BE TRANSACTED AT SHAREHOLDERS' MEETINGS. No business shall be transacted at any annual meeting of shareholders, except as may be (i) specified in the notice of the meeting given by or at the direction of the Board (including, if so specified, any shareholder proposal submitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission), (ii) otherwise brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board or (iii) otherwise brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedure set forth in the following paragraph, by a shareholder of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting. For business to be brought by a shareholder before an annual meeting of shareholders pursuant to clause (iii) above, the shareholder must have given written notice thereof to the Secretary of the corporation, such notice to be received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 90 nor more than 120 days prior to the one year anniversary of the date of the annual meeting of shareholders of the previous year; provided, however, that 3
in the event that the annual meeting of shareholders is called for a date that is not within 30 days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder must be received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which the corporation's notice of the date of the meeting is first given or made to the shareholders or disclosed to the general public (which disclosure may be effected by means of a publicly available filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission), whichever occurs first. A shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth, as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting of shareholders, (i) a brief description of the business proposed to be brought before the annual meeting of shareholders and of the reasons for bringing such business before the meeting and, if such business includes a proposal to amend either the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, the text of the proposed amendment, (ii) the name and record address of the shareholder proposing such business, (iii) the number of shares of each class of stock of the corporation that are beneficially owned by such shareholder, (iv) any material interest of the shareholder in such business and (v) such other information relating to the proposal that is required to be disclosed in solicitations pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission or other applicable law. Notwithstanding anything in these by-laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an annual meeting of shareholders except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.9; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 2.9 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any shareholder of any business properly brought before the annual meeting of shareholders in accordance with such procedures. The chairman of an annual meeting of shareholders shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.9, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the annual meeting of shareholders shall not be transacted. ARTICLE III DIRECTORS SECTION 3.1 POWERS, NUMBER, QUALIFICATIONS AND TERM OF OFFICE. The business of the corporation shall be managed by its Board, which shall consist of not less than seven persons, each of whom shall be at least twenty-one years of age. Subject to such limitation, the number of directors shall be fixed and may be increased or decreased from time to time by a majority of the entire Board. Directors need not be shareholders. Except as otherwise provided by law or these by-laws, the directors shall be elected at the annual meetings of the shareholders, and each director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders, and until his successor has been elected and qualified. Newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of directors and any vacancies occurring in the Board for any reason, including vacancies occurring by reason of the removal of any of the directors with or without cause, may be filled by vote of a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum exists. No decrease in the number of directors shall shorten the terms of any incumbent director. A director 4
elected to fill a vacancy shall be elected to hold office for the unexpired term of his predecessor. If the Board has not elected a Chairman of the Board as an officer, it may choose a Chairman of the Board from among its members to preside at its meetings. (B.C.L. Sections 701, 702, 703, 705.) SECTION 3.2 REGULAR MEETINGS. There shall be regular meetings of the Board, which may be held on such dates and without notice or upon such notice as the Board may from time to time determine. Regular meetings shall be held at the principal office of the corporation within the State of New York or at such other place either within or without the State of New York and at such specific time as may be fixed by the Board from time to time. There shall also be a regular meeting of the Board, which may be held without notice or upon such notice as the Board may from time to time determine, after the annual meeting of the shareholders or any special meeting of the shareholders at which an election of directors is held. (B.C.L. Sections 710, 711.) SECTION 3.3 SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of the Board may be held at any place within or without the State of New York at any time when called by the Chairman of the Board or the President or four or more directors. Notice of the time and place of special meetings shall be given to each director by serving such notice upon him personally within the City of New York at least one day prior to the time fixed for such meeting, or by mailing or telegraphing it, prepaid, addressed to him at his post office address, as it appears on the books of the corporation, at least three days prior to the time fixed for such meeting. Neither the call or notice nor any waiver of notice need specify the purpose of any meeting of the Board. (B.C.L. Sections 710, 711.) SECTION 3.4 WAIVER OF NOTICE. Notice of a meeting need not be given to any director who signs a waiver of notice whether before or after the meeting, or who attends the meeting without protesting, prior thereto or at its commencement, the lack of notice to him. (B.C.L. Section 711(c).) SECTION 3.5 QUORUM AND VOTING. One-third of the entire Board shall constitute a quorum. A majority of the directors present, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn any meeting to another time and place. Notice of any adjournment shall be given to the directors who were not present at the time of the adjournment and, unless the time and place of such adjournment are announced at the meeting, to the other directors. The vote of a majority of the directors present at the time of the vote, if a quorum is present at such time, shall be the act of the Board, except where a larger vote is required by law, the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws. (B.C.L. Sections 701, 708, 711(d).) SECTION 3.6 ACTION BY THE BOARD. Any reference in these by-laws to corporate action to be taken by the Board shall mean such action at a meeting of the Board. However, any action required or permitted to be taken by the Board or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or the committee consent in writing to the adoption of a resolution authorizing the action. The resolution and the written consent thereto by the members of the Board or committee shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board or committee. Any one or more members of the Board or any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other at the same time. Participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at the meeting. (B.C.L. Section 708.) 5
SECTION 3.7 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD. The Board by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board may designate from among its members one or more committees, each consisting of three or more directors. Each such committee shall have all the authority of the Board to the extent provided in such resolution, except as limited by law. No such committee shall exercise its authority in a manner inconsistent with any action, direction, or instruction of the Board. The Board may appoint a Chairman of any committee (except for the Executive Committee, if one is established, in the case where the Chairman of the Executive Committee has been elected pursuant to Section 4.1 of these by-laws), who shall preside at meetings of their respective committees. The Board may fill any vacancy in any committee and may designate one or more directors as alternate members of such committee, who may replace any absent member or members at any meeting of such committee. Each such committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Board, but in no event beyond its first meeting following the annual meeting of the shareholders. All acts done and powers conferred by any committee pursuant to the foregoing authorization shall be deemed to be and may be certified as being done or conferred under authority of the Board. A record of the proceedings of each committee shall be kept and submitted at the next regular meeting of the Board. At least one-third but not less than two of the members of any committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the vote of a majority of the members present at the time of the vote, if a quorum is present at such time, shall be the act of the committee. If a committee or the Board shall establish regular meetings of any committee, such meetings may be held without notice or upon such notice as the committee may from time to time determine. Notice of the time and place of special meetings of any committee shall be given to each member of the committee in the same manner as in the case of special meetings of the Board. Notice of a meeting need not be given to any member of a committee who signs a waiver of notice whether before or after the meeting, or who attends the meeting without protesting, prior thereto or at its commencement, the lack of notice to him. Except as otherwise provided in these by-laws, each committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure. (B.C.L. Section 712.) SECTION 3.8 COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS. The Board shall have authority to fix the compensation of directors for services in any capacity. (B.C.L. Section 713(e).) SECTION 3.9 RESIGNATION AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS. Any director may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Chief Executive Officer or to the Board, and such resignation shall take effect at the time therein specified without the necessity of further action. Any director may be removed with or without cause by vote of the shareholders, or with cause by action of the Board. (B.C.L. Section 706.) SECTION 3.10 THE "ENTIRE BOARD". As used in these by-laws the term "the entire Board" or "the entire Board of Directors" means the total number of directors which the corporation would have if there were no vacancies. (B.C.L. Section 702.) 6
SECTION 3.11 NOMINATION OF DIRECTORS. Subject to the rights of holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the common shares as to dividends or upon liquidation, nominations for the election of directors may only be made (i) by the Board or a committee appointed by the Board or (ii) by a shareholder of the corporation entitled to vote at the meeting at which a person is to be nominated in accordance with the procedure set forth in the following paragraph. A shareholder may nominate a person or persons for election as directors only if the shareholder has given written notice of its intent to make such nomination to the Secretary of the corporation, such notice to be received at the principal executive offices of the corporation (i) with respect to an annual meeting of shareholders, not less than 90 nor more than 120 days prior to the one year anniversary of the date of the annual meeting of shareholders of the previous year; provided, however, that in the event that the annual meeting of shareholders is called for a date that is not within 30 days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder must be received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which the corporation's notice of the date of the meeting is first given or made to the shareholders or disclosed to the general public (which disclosure may be effected by means of a publicly available filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission), whichever occurs first and (ii) with respect to a special meeting of shareholders called for the purpose of electing directors, not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which the corporation's notice of the date of the meeting is first given or made to the shareholders or disclosed to the general public (which disclosure may be effected by means of a publicly available filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission), whichever occurs first. A shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth (i) the name and record address of the shareholder who intends to make such nomination, (ii) the name, age, business and residence addresses and principal occupation of each person to be nominated, (iii) the number of shares of each class of stock of the corporation that are beneficially owned by the shareholder, (iv) a description of all arrangements and understandings between the shareholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by such shareholder, (v) such other information relating to the person(s) that is required to be disclosed in solicitations for proxies for election of directors pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission or other applicable law and (vi) the written consent of each proposed nominee to be named as a nominee and to serve as a director of the corporation if elected, together with an undertaking, signed by each proposed nominee, to furnish to the corporation any information it may request upon the advice of counsel for the purpose of determining such proposed nominee's eligibility to serve as a director. The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded. 7
ARTICLE IV OFFICERS AND OFFICIALS SECTION 4.1 OFFICERS. The Board shall elect a Chairman of the Board or a President or both, and a Secretary, a Treasurer and a Comptroller and may elect such other officers, including a Chairman of the Executive Committee and one or more Vice Chairmen of the Board, as the Board shall determine. Each officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as are provided in these by-laws and as may be provided from time to time by the Board or by the Chief Executive Officer. Each officer shall at all times be subject to the control of the Board, and any power or duty assigned to an officer by these by-laws or the Board or the Chief Executive Officer shall be subject to control, withdrawal or limitation by the Board. (B.C.L. Section 715.) SECTION 4.2 QUALIFICATIONS. Any person may hold two or more offices, except that neither the Chairman nor the President shall be Secretary or Treasurer. The Board may require any officer to give security for the faithful performance of his duties. (B.C.L. Sections 715(e) and (f).) SECTION 4.3 ELECTION AND TERMINATION. The Board shall elect officers at the meeting of the Board following the annual meeting of the shareholders and may elect additional officers and fill vacancies at any other time. Unless the Board shall otherwise specify, each officer shall hold office until the meeting of the Board following the next annual meeting of the shareholders, and until his successor has been elected and qualified, except as hereinafter provided. The Board may remove any officer or terminate his duties and powers, at any time, with or without cause. Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Chief Executive Officer or to the Board, or by retiring or by leaving the employ of the corporation (without being employed by a subsidiary or affiliate) and any such action shall take effect as a resignation without necessity of further action. The Chief Executive Officer may suspend any officer until the next meeting of the Board. (B.C.L. Sections 715, 716.) SECTION 4.4 DELEGATION OF POWERS. Each officer may delegate to any other officer and to any official, employee or agent of the corporation, such portions of his powers as he shall deem appropriate, subject to such limitations and expirations as he shall specify, and may revoke such delegation at any time. SECTION 4.5 CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. The Chairman of the Board may be, but need not be, a person other than the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation. The Chairman of the Board may be, but need not be, an officer or employee of the corporation. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at meetings of the Board of Directors and shall establish agendas for such meetings. In addition, he shall assure that matters of significant interest to shareholders and the investment community are addressed by management. The Chairman of the Board shall be an ex-officio member of each of the standing committees of the Board, except for the Executive Committee, of which he shall be a member. SECTION 4.6 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the direction of the Board, have general and active control of the affairs and business of the corporation and general supervision of its 8
officers, officials, employees and agents. He shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders. He shall also preside at all meetings of the Board and any committee thereof of which he is a member, unless the Board or such committee shall have chosen another chairman. He shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board are carried into effect, and in addition he shall have all the powers and perform all the duties generally appertaining to the office of the Chief Executive Officer of a corporation. The Chief Executive Officer shall designate the person or persons who shall exercise his powers and perform his duties in his absence or disability and the absence or disability of the President. SECTION 4.7 PRESIDENT. The President may be Chief Executive Officer if so designated by the Board. If not, he shall have such powers and perform such duties as are prescribed by the Chief Executive Officer or by the Board, and, in the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer, he shall have the powers and perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, except to the extent that the Board shall have otherwise provided. SECTION 4.8 CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The Chairman of the Executive Committee shall be a member of the Executive Committee. He shall preside at meetings of the Executive Committee and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as are prescribed by the Board or by the Chief Executive Officer. SECTION 4.9 VICE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. Each Vice Chairman of the Board shall have such powers and perform such duties as are prescribed by the Chief Executive Officer or by the Board. SECTION 4.10 SECRETARY. The Secretary shall attend all meetings and keep the minutes of all proceedings of the shareholders, the Board, the Executive Committee and any other committee unless it shall have chosen another secretary. He shall give notice of all such meetings and all other notices required by law or by these by-laws. He shall have custody of the seal of the corporation and shall have power to affix it to any instrument and to attest thereto. He shall have charge of the record of shareholders required by law, which may be kept by any transfer agent or agents under his direction. He shall maintain the records of directors and officers as required by law. He shall have charge of all documents and other records, except those for which some other officer or agent is properly accountable, and shall generally perform all duties appertaining to the office of secretary of a corporation. (B.C.L. Sections 605, 624, 718.) SECTION 4.11 TREASURER. The Treasurer shall have the care and custody of all of the funds, securities and other valuables of the corporation, except to the extent they shall be entrusted to other officers, employees or agents by direction of the Chief Executive Officer or the Board. The Treasurer may hold the funds, securities and other valuables in his care in such vaults or safe deposit facilities, or may deposit them in and entrust them to such bank, trust companies and other depositories, all as he shall determine with the written concurrence of the Chief Executive Officer or his delegate. The Treasurer shall account regularly to the Comptroller for all of his receipts, disbursements and deliveries of funds, securities and other valuables. 9
The Treasurer or his delegate, jointly with the Chief Executive Officer or his delegate, may designate in writing and certify to any bank, trust company, safe deposit company or other depository the persons (including themselves) who are authorized, singly or jointly as they shall specify in each case, to open accounts in the name of the corporation with banks, trust companies and other depositories, to deposit therein funds, instruments and securities belonging to the corporation, to draw checks or drafts on such accounts in amounts not exceeding the credit balances therein, to order the delivery of securities therefrom, to rent safe deposit boxes or vaults in the name of the corporation, to have access to such facility and to deposit therein and remove therefrom securities and other valuables. Any such designation and certification shall contain the regulations, terms and conditions applicable to such authority and may be amended or terminated at any time. Such powers may also be granted to any other officer, official, employee or agent of the corporation by resolution of the Board or by power of attorney authorized by the Board. SECTION 4.12 COMPTROLLER. The Comptroller shall be the chief accounting officer of the corporation and shall have control of all its books of account. He shall see that correct and complete books and records of account are kept as required by law, showing fully, in such form as he shall prescribe, all transactions of the corporation, and he shall require, keep and preserve all vouchers relating thereto for such period as may be necessary. The Comptroller shall render periodically such financial statements and such other reports relating to the corporation's business as may be required by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board. He shall generally perform all duties appertaining to the office of comptroller of a corporation. (B.C.L. Section 624.) SECTION 4.13 OFFICIALS AND AGENTS. The Chief Executive Officer or his delegate may appoint such officials and agents of the corporation as the conduct of its business may require and assign to them such titles, powers, duties and compensation as he shall see fit and may remove or suspend or modify such titles, powers, duties or compensation at any time with or without cause. ARTICLE V SHARES SECTION 5.1 CERTIFICATES. The shares of the corporation shall be represented by certificates or shall be uncertificated shares. Certificates shall be in such form, consistent with law, as prescribed by the Board, and signed and sealed as provided by law. (B.C.L. Section 508.) SECTION 5.2 TRANSFER OF SHARES. Except as provided in the certificate of incorporation, upon surrender to the corporation or to its transfer agent of a certificate representing shares, duly endorsed or accompanied with proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the corporation to issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto and to cancel the old certificate. The corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any shares as the holder in fact thereof, and, 10
accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such shares on the part of any other person, whether or not the corporation shall have express or other notice thereof, except as may be required by law. (B.C.L. Section 508(d).) SECTION 5.3 RECORD OF SHAREHOLDERS. The corporation shall keep at its principal office within the State of New York, or at the office of its transfer agent or registrar in the State of New York, a record in written form, or in any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time, which shall contain the names and addresses of all shareholders, the numbers and class of shares held by each, and the dates when they respectively became the owners of record thereof. (B.C.L. Section 624(a).) SECTION 5.4 LOST OR DESTROYED CERTIFICATES. In case of the alleged loss, destruction or mutilation of a certificate or certificates representing shares, the Board may direct the issuance of a new certificate or certificates in lieu thereof upon such terms and conditions in conformity with law as the Board may prescribe. (B.C.L. Section 508(e).) SECTION 5.5 FIXING RECORD DATE. The Board or the Chief Executive Officer may fix, in advance, a date as the record date for the purpose of determining the shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or any adjournment thereof, or for the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or the allotment of any rights, or for the purpose of any other action. Such date shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action. (B.C.L. Section 604.) ARTICLE VI INDEMNIFICATION OF CORPORATION PERSONNEL SECTION 6.1. DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES. The corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as the same exists or may hereafter be in effect, indemnify any person, made or threatened to be made, a party to, or who is otherwise involved in, any threatened pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, legislative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person, is or was or has agreed to become a director of the corporation, or is or was an employee of the corporation, or serves or served or has agreed to serve any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise in any capacity at the request of the corporation, against judgments, fines, penalties, amounts paid in settlement and reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees actually and necessarily incurred in connection with such action or proceeding, or any appeal therein; provided, however, that no indemnification shall be provided to any such person if a judgment or other final adjudication adverse to the director or employee establishes that (i) his acts were committed in bad faith or were the result of active and deliberate dishonesty and, in either case, were material to the cause of action so adjudicated, or (ii) he personally gained in fact a financial profit or other advantage to which he was not legally entitled. Any action or proceeding by or in the right of the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor or by or in the right of any other corporation of any type or kind, domestic or foreign, or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, which any director or employee serves or served or agreed to serve at the request of the corporation shall be included in the actions for which directors and employees will be indemnified under the terms of this Section 6.1. Such indemnification shall include the right to be paid advances of any expenses incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, upon receipt of a secured undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount consistent with the provisions of applicable law. (B.C.L. Sections 721, 722, 723(c).) 11
SECTION 6.2 OTHER INDEMNIFICATION. The corporation may indemnify any person to whom the corporation is permitted by applicable law or these by-laws to provide indemnification or the advancement of expenses, whether pursuant to rights granted pursuant to, or provided by, the New York Business Corporation Law or any other law or these by-laws or other rights created by (i) a resolution of shareholders, (ii) a resolution of directors, or (iii) an agreement providing for such indemnification, it being expressly intended that these by-laws authorize the creation of other rights in any such manner. The right to be indemnified and to the reimbursement or advancement of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition authorized by this Section 6.2, shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the certificate of incorporation, by-laws, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or otherwise. (B.C.L. Sections 721, 723(c).) SECTION 6.3 MISCELLANEOUS. The right to indemnification conferred by Section 6.1, and any indemnification extended under Section 6.2, (i) is a contract right pursuant to which the person entitled thereto may bring suit as if the provisions thereof were set forth in a separate written contract between the corporation and such person, (ii) is intended to be retroactive to events occurring prior to the adoption of this Article VI, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, and (iii) shall continue to exist after the rescission or restrictive modification thereof with respect to events occurring prior thereto. The benefits of Section 6.1 shall extend to the heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives of any person entitled to indemnification under this Article. ARTICLE VII MISCELLANEOUS SECTION 7.1 FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the corporation shall be the calendar year. SECTION 7.2 VOTING OF SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS. The Board may authorize any officer, agent or proxy to vote shares of any domestic or foreign corporation of any type or kind standing in the name of this corporation and to execute written consents respecting the same, but in the absence of such specific authorization the Chief Executive Officer of this corporation or his delegate may vote such shares and may execute proxies and written consents with relation thereto. 12
ARTICLE VIII AMENDMENTS SECTION 8.1 GENERAL. Except as otherwise provided by law, these by-laws may be amended or repealed or new by-laws may be adopted by the Board of Directors, or by vote of the holders of the shares at the time entitled to vote in the election of any directors, except that the Board may not amend or repeal any by-law, or adopt any new by-law with respect to the subject matter of any by-law, which specifically states that it may be amended or repealed only by the shareholders. (B.C.L. Section 601.) SECTION 8.2 AMENDMENT OF THIS ARTICLE. This Article VIII may be amended or repealed only by the shareholders entitled to vote hereon as provided in Section 8.1 above. 13

EXHIBIT 10.1 DESCRIPTION OF COMPENSATION PAYABLE TO NON-MANAGEMENT DIRECTORS Upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of American Express Company, on January 24, 2005, the Board approved the payment of the following compensation to each non-management director of the Board in respect of his/her service on the Board: o an annual retainer of $64,000; provided, however, that this amount shall be reduced by $16,000 if the Director does not attend at least 75% of the meetings of the Board and meetings of the committees on which the Director serves; o 2,225 Share Equivalent Units (SEUs) to be awarded under the 2003 Share Equivalent Unit Plan for Directors upon the Director's election or reelection to the Board at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders; o an annual retainer of $20,000 for the chair of the Audit Committee, $15,000 for the chair of the Compensation and Benefits Committee and $10,000 for the Directors who chair the other committees of the Board; o an annual retainer of $5,000 for each member of the Audit Committee; and o reimbursement of customary expenses for attending Board, committee and shareholder meetings. Pursuant to the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors and Advisors, each non-management director may elect to defer receipt of 50% or 100% of the compensation payable to the Director for any given year. In accordance with the Director's instructions, amounts deferred are credited either to an account that has a crediting schedule based on the Company's return on equity (the "ROE-Based Option") or an account linked to the performance of the Company's common stock (the "Stock-Based Option"). Amounts deferred for which the Director has chosen the ROE-based Option are credited or debited with interest equivalents at a rate determined pursuant to a schedule established under the Company's Pay-for-Performance Deferral Program for senior management that is based on the reported annual return on equity of the Company. Amounts deferred for which the Director has chosen the Stock-Based Option are converted hypothetically into units equivalent to the shares of the Company's common stock ("SEUs"), determined by dividing the amount of deferred compensation in each calendar quarter by the average market price of the Company's common stock for the last ten trading days of the calendar quarter. Amounts deferred for which the Director has chosen the Stock-Based Option are also credited with dividend equivalents in the form of additional SEUs on any dividend payment date.

EXHIBIT 10.2 American Express Company (the "Company") maintains the American Express Company Pay-for-Performance Deferral Program for senior management as described below: DESCRIPTION OF PAY-FOR-PERFORMANCE DEFERRAL PROGRAM The Pay-for-Performance Deferral Program permits eligible participants to defer payment of their base salary, annual cash bonus or any payouts in respect of the Company's portfolio grant program pursuant to the Company's 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended; provided, however, that generally, the maximum total amount that a participant may defer into his or her deferral account from all sources under the deferral program in the annual election period (historically held in December) is one times base salary. The program annually credits interest equivalents to, or reduces the value of, deferred amounts according to a schedule based on the reported annual return on equity ("ROE") of the Company. The Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") of the Company may adjust the schedule, prospectively or retroactively, in its sole discretion without a participant's prior consent or notice. In November 2004, the Committee set the overall schedule of rates at which interest equivalents are credited to deferred amounts, such that the rates for amounts deferred beginning in 2005 range from 0% (if the Company's ROE for a given year is 1%) to a maximum of 14% (if the Company's ROE for a given year is 25% or more). Deferred balances are reduced in value if the annual ROE is zero or less for a given year. If a participant elects to defer any compensation under the Pay-for-Performance Deferral Program, he or she must defer such compensation for at least five years. In the event a participant's employment by the Company or any of its subsidiaries terminates prior to the end of the minimum five-year deferral period for any reason other than retirement, disability or death, then the participant's account is paid out in a lump sum with interest equivalents credited or debited for the entire period of deferral at the lesser of (i) the initial deferred amount credited or debited annually at the ROE-based rate described above or (ii) the initial deferred amount credited annually with the rate of return on the applicable five-year U.S. Treasury note. In the event a participant's employment by the Company or any of its subsidiaries terminates on or after the end of the minimum five-year deferral period for any reason other than retirement, disability or death, then the participant's account is paid out in a lump sum with interest equivalents credited or debited annually using the ROE-based rate described above. The Committee may delay payments under the program until they are fully deductible under Section 162(m) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

EXHIBIT 10.3 AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK LTD. DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR DIRECTORS AND ADVISORS (As amended effective July 28, 2003) SECTION 1. EFFECTIVE DATE The effective date of the Plan is October 1, 1977, except as otherwise provided therein. SECTION 2. ELIGIBILITY Any Director or Advisor to the Board of American Express Company (the "Company") or Director of American Express Bank Ltd. ("AEB") (hereinafter "Directors") who is not an officer or employee of the Company, AEB or a subsidiary thereof is eligible to participate in the Plan. SECTION 3. AMOUNT AND TERM OF DEFERRAL A Director may elect to defer the receipt of either 50% or 100% of the compensation payable to the Director for serving on the Board of Directors of the Company or AEB, as well as service on Committees of those Boards. The term of deferral shall be the calendar year from January 1 to December 31. SECTION 4. DEFERRED COMPENSATION ACCOUNTS Deferred compensation will be credited to the Director's bookkeeping account(s) established under the Plan. In accordance with the Director's instructions, amounts deferred will be credited either to an account linked to the Company's return on equity (the "ROE-Based Option") or an account linked to the performance of the Company's Common Stock, par value $0.20 per share (the "Share Equivalent Option") as more completely described below. (a) ROE-Based Option Amounts deferred for which the Director has chosen the ROE-Based Option shall be credited or debited with interest equivalents at a rate equal to the ROE Formula Rate under the Company's Pay-for-Performance Deferral Program. As promptly as practicable each year after the Compensation and Benefits Committee determines the ROE Formula Rate with respect to the prior year, the amounts held in the account under the ROE-Based Option on December 31 of the prior year shall be credited or debited at the ROE Formula Rate as follows: Amounts that have been held in the account for the entire prior year will be credited or debited by an annual percentage rate equal to the ROE Formula Rate. Amounts that were deferred during the prior year will be credited or debited at a proration of the annual ROE Formula Rate based on the number of days during the prior year they were held in the account (e.g., the number of days actually held divided by 366). -1-
(b) Share Equivalent Option Amounts deferred for which the Director has chosen the Share Equivalent Option will be converted hypothetically into units equivalent to the shares of the Company's Common Stock ("Share Equivalent Units or SEUs"), determined by dividing the amount of deferred compensation in each calendar quarter by the average market price of the Common Shares for the last fifteen (15) trading days of such calendar quarter. On any dividend payment date for the Common Shares, dividend equivalents in the form of additional SEUs will be credited to the Director's account equal to (i) the per-share cash dividend divided by the average market price of the Common Shares on the payment date, multiplied by (ii) the number of such units credited to such account on the payment date. (b)(i) Stock Splits In the event of any change in the outstanding Common Shares of the Company by reasons of any stock split, stock dividend, split up, split-off, spin-off, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, rights offering, reorganization, combination or exchange of shares, a sale by the company of all or part of its assets, any distribution to the shareholders other than a normal cash dividend, or other extraordinary or unusual event, the number of SEUs credited to a Director's account shall be automatically adjusted on the same basis so that the proportionate interest of the Director under the Plan shall be maintained as before the occurrence of such event. (b)(ii) Valuing SEUs Payable to Directors SEUs shall be payable to a Director as of December 31 of the year in which Board service terminates or the year in which the director has elected to receive a payment. The SEUs will be valued for payment by multiplying the applicable number of units by the average of the average market price of a Common Share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Tape for the fifteen (15) trading days immediately preceding December 31. The average market price on any valuation date under the Plan shall be the average of the highest and lowest sales prices of the stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Tape. SECTION 5. TIME OF ELECTION; TRANSFER OF BALANCES A Director who is newly elected shall make his or her election to participate in the Plan within 60 days of his or her initial election. Thereafter, if a director wishes to change his or her election, they should do so not later than December 31 for compensation to be paid in the next year. Directors who participate in the Plan may also elect, between December 1 and December 31 of each year, to transfer existing balances between the ROE based account and the SEU account. Such transfers shall occur as of December 31 and must involve the entire balance; partial account balance transfers are not permitted. In the event of a balance transfer, the SEU's will be valued at the 15 trading day average price immediately prior to December 31. -2-
SECTION 6. FORM OF DISTRIBUTION OF ACCOUNT BALANCE A Director may elect to receive amounts accumulated in his or her account under the Plan in cash in either (a) a lump sum or (b) a number of annual installments (not to exceed 10) as specified by the Director. Regardless of the election that a Director may make, he or she must begin to receive distributions not earlier than his or her termination of service as a director and not later than the tenth anniversary or termination of such service. In the absence of a valid election, the balances that have accumulated in a Director's account will be distributed as promptly as administratively practicable following such Director's termination of service as a director. Distributions will be paid within the first 60 days of the year, based on the account balance as of December 31 of the prior year. If the Director elects to receive installment payments, each installment will be paid proportionally, based on the number of remaining installment payments and the number of remaining balance(s) accumulated in the Director's account, including related accrued dividends. SECTION 7. DEATH PRIOR TO RECEIPT In the event that a Director dies prior to receipt of any or all of the amounts payable to him or her pursuant to the Plan, any amounts that are then credited to the Director's account shall be paid to the legal representatives of the Director's estate in a lump sum within sixty (60) days following the Company's receipt of notification of the Director's death. SECTION 8. DIRECTOR'S RIGHTS UNSECURED The right of any Director to receive future payments under the provisions of the Plan shall be an unsecured, contractual claim against the general assets of the Company. The Plan shall be unfunded. The Company shall not be required to establish any special or separate fund or to make any segregation of assets the payment of any amounts under the Plan. Participants may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, levy, attach, encumber or alienate any amounts payable under the Plan. SECTION 9. STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT A statement of account will be sent to each Director not later than sixty (60) days after the close of each calendar quarter, which will confirm the Director's account balance(s) as of the end of the preceding quarter. SECTION 10. AMENDMENT The Plan may be amended at any time and from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company' provided, however, that the Board may not adopt any amendment that would materially and adversely affect any right or benefit to any Director with respect to any SEUs theretofore credited without such Director's written consent. -3-

EXHIBIT 10.4 [LOGO OF AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY] AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 1989 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN MASTER AGREEMENT DATED FEBRUARY 27, 1995 Nonqualified Stock Options, Restricted Stock Awards, UK Stock Options and Letter of Intent Awards ("Awards") are issued pursuant to the 1989 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan") of American Express Company (the "Company") at the discretion and subject to the administration of the Compensation and Benefits Committee, or its successor (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"). Awards issued on or after February 27, 1995 shall contain the general terms set forth in the applicable provisions of this Master Agreement. The specific terms of individual Awards will be contained in the Award Schedule(s) delivered to participants in the Plan (the "Participants"). All Awards shall be subject to the Plan, the Plan being incorporated into this Master Agreement by reference and made a part hereof. Section I MASTER AGREEMENT PROVISIONS RELATING TO A GRANT OF NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION (WITH STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHT) 1. Sections I and V of this Master Agreement, together with an Award Schedule referring to Section I of this Master Agreement, shall contain the terms of a specific Nonqualified Stock Option ("Option") issued to a Participant. Each Award Schedule shall specify the number of common shares of the Company subject to the Option, the date of Option Grant, the Option Exercise Date(s), the Option Exercise Price and any additional terms applicable to the Option. Such additional terms may address any matter deemed appropriate by the Committee or its delegate and may include terms not contained in this Master Agreement and/or may delete terms contained in this Master Agreement. 2. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement and the applicable provisions of the Plan, a Participant may exercise this Option as follows: (a) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, no part of this Option may be exercised before the first Option Exercise Date listed in the Award Schedule or after the expiration of ten years from the Date of Grant set forth above; (b) At any time or times on or after the first Option Exercise Date listed in the Award Schedule, a Participant may exercise this Option as to any number of shares which, when added to the number of shares as to which a Participant has theretofore exercised this Option, if any, will not exceed one-third (33 1/3 %) of the total number of shares covered hereby; (c) At any time or times on or after the second Option Exercise Date listed in the Award Schedule, a Participant may exercise this Option as to any number of shares which, when added to the number of shares as to which a Participant has theretofore exercised this Option, if any, will not exceed two-thirds (66 2/3 %) of the total number of shares covered hereby; and (d) At any time or times on or after the third Option Exercise Date listed in the Award Schedule and thereafter through the tenth year after the Date of Grant hereof, a Participant may exercise this Option as to any number of shares which, when added to the number of shares as to which the Participant has theretofore exercised this Option, if any, will not exceed the total number of shares covered hereby. This Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a common share of the Company. 3. A Participant may not exercise this Option and the stock appreciation right included herein, as applicable, unless all of the following conditions are met: (a) Legal counsel for the Company must be satisfied at the time of exercise that the issuance of shares upon exercise will be in compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable United States federal, state, local and foreign laws; (b) The Participant must pay at the time of exercise the full purchase price for the shares being acquired hereunder, by (i) paying in cash in United States dollars (which may be in the form of a check or promissory note, if permissible under Paragraph 8 below), (ii) tendering common shares owned by the Participant which have a fair market value equal to the full purchase price for the shares being acquired, such fair market value to be determined in such reasonable manner as may be provided from time to time by the Committee or as may be required in order to comply with the requirements of any applicable laws or regulations, or (iii) tendering a combination of the forms of payment provided for in Subparagraphs 3(b)(i) and 3(b)(ii) above; and (c) The Participant must, at all times during the period beginning with the Date of Grant of this option and ending on the date of such exercise, have been employed by the Company or an Affiliate (as defined in the Plan) or have been engaged in a period of Related Employment (as defined in the Plan), except that if the Participant ceases to be so employed or terminates a period of Related Employment by reason of the Participant's disability or retirement (as such terms are defined in the Plan and interpreted and administered by the Committee) while holding this Option which has not expired and has not been fully exercised, the Participant may, any time within three years of the date of the onset of such disability or retirement (but in no event after the expiration of this Option under Paragraph 2(a) above with respect to ten years from the Date of Grant or expiration under Paragraph 4 below with respect to one year after the date of death), exercise this option with respect to the number of shares, after giving full effect to the gradual vesting provisions of Paragraph 2 above, as to which the Participant could have exercised the option on the date of the onset of such disability or retirement, or with respect to such greater number of shares as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, and any remaining portion of this Option shall be cancelled by the Company. In the event the Participant's employment by the Company and its Affiliates or Related Employment terminates for reasons other than disability or retirement as described in this Subparagraph 3(c) or death as described in Paragraph 4 below, this Option shall be cancelled by the Company. 4. Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, a Participant may not assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this Option (and the stock appreciation right included herein), except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and this Option is exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by the Participant. If the Participant or anyone claiming under or through the Participant attempts to violate this Paragraph 4, such attempted violation shall be null and void and without effect, and the Company's obligation to make any further payments (stock or cash) hereunder shall terminate. If at the time of the Participant's death this Option has not been fully exercised, the Participant's estate or any person who acquires the right to exercise this option by bequest or inheritance or by reason of the Participant's death may, at any time within one year after the date of the Participant's death (but in no event after the expiration of this option under Paragraph 2(a) above with respect to ten years from the Date of Grant or Paragraph 3(c) above with respect to three years from the onset of disability or retirement), exercise this option with respect to the number of shares, after giving full effect to the gradual vesting provisions of Paragraph 2 above, as to which the Participant could have exercised this Option at the time of the Participant's death, or with respect to such greater number of shares as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. The applicable requirements of Paragraph 3 above must be satisfied at the time of such exercise. 5. In the event of any change in the outstanding common shares of the Company by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, split-up, split-off, spin-off, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, rights offering, reorganization, combination or exchange of shares, sale by the Company of all or part of its assets, distribution to shareholders other than a normal cash dividend, or other extraordinary or unusual event occurring after the Date of Grant specified in the Award Schedule and prior to its exercise in full, the number and kind of shares for which this Option may then be exercised and the Option Exercise Price per share may or may not be adjusted so as to reflect such change, all as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. In the event that the Company or any of its Affiliates is a participant in a corporate merger, consolidation or other similar transaction, neither the Company nor such Affiliate shall be obligated to cause any other participant in such transaction to assume this Option or to substitute a new option for this Option. 6. (a) Subject to the conditions specified in Subparagraph 6(b) below, within such time or times as the option shall be exercisable in whole or in part and to the extent that it shall then be exercisable in accordance with Paragraph 2 above, the Participant (or any person acting under Paragraph 4 above) may surrender unexercised the Option or any portion thereof which is then exercisable to the Company and receive from the Company in exchange therefor that number of common shares of the Company having an aggregate value equal to 100% of the excess of the value of one share over the Option Exercise Price per share heretofore specified times the lesser of (i) the number of shares as to which the Option then is exercisable or (ii) the number of shares as to which the Option is surrendered to the Company. This right to surrender unexercised the Option or any portion thereof which is then exercisable is referred to herein as a "stock appreciation right." No fractional shares shall be delivered, but in lieu thereof a cash adjustment shall be made. (b) The stock appreciation right may be exercised only if, and to the extent that, (i) the Option is at the time exercisable, and (ii) on the date of exercise (1) the Option will, in accordance with Subparagraph 2(a) above, expire within 30 days (or within 90 days if the Participant is at that time an Insider, as hereinafter defined), or (2) by reason of the Participant's disability or retirement (as defined in the Plan), the Participant has ceased to be an employee of the Company or an Affiliate thereof or terminated a period of Related Employment, or (3) the Participant has died. Notwithstanding Subparagraph 6(b)(ii) above but subject to the conditions of Subparagraph 6(b)(i) above, if the Participant is on the date of exercise an officer of the Company who is required to file reports pursuant to Section l6(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (an "Insider"), the stock appreciation right may, subject to the approval of the Committee, be exercised (but only with respect to a maximum of 50 % of the shares subject to the option granted hereunder), on or after the third Option Exercise Date listed in the Award Schedule, at any time during the period beginning on the third business day after, and ending on the twelfth business day after, the date on which the Company makes publicly available quarterly or annual summary statements of sales and earnings; such period of exercise may be further limited to the extent, if any, determined by the Committee as necessary or desirable to comply with applicable provisions of United States federal, state, local or foreign law or regulation. (c) The Committee may elect from time to time in its sole discretion to settle the obligation arising out of the exercise of the stock appreciation right, by the payment of cash equal to the aggregate value of the common shares it otherwise would be obligated to deliver or partly by the payment of cash and partly by the delivery of common shares. (d) For all purposes under this Paragraph 6, the value of a common share of the Company shall be the fair market value thereof, as determined by the Committee, on the last business day preceding the date of the election to exercise the stock appreciation right, provided that if notice of such election is received by the Committee more than three business days after the date of such election (as such date of election is stated in the notice of election), the Committee may, but need not, determine the value of a common share as of the day preceding the date on which the notice of election is received, and provided, further, that as to Insiders, in no event will such valuation date be outside the ten-day period referred to in Subparagraph 6(b) above. 7. It shall be a condition to the obligation of the Company to furnish common shares upon exercise of an Option or settlement of a stock appreciation right by delivery of common shares and/or cash (a) that the Participant (or any person acting under Paragraph 4 above) pay to the Company or its designee, upon its demand, in accordance with Paragraph 18(f) of the Plan, such amount as may be demanded for the purpose of satisfying its obligation or the obligation of any of its Affiliates or other person to withhold United States federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other taxes incurred by reason of the exercise of the Option or the settlement of the stock appreciation right or the transfer of shares thereupon, (b) whether the settlement of the stock appreciation right is to be made by delivery of common shares or by the payment of cash, that the Participant (or any person acting under Paragraph 4 above) execute such forms as the Committee shall prescribe for the purpose of evidencing the surrender of the Option in whole or in part, as the case may be, and (c) that the Participant (or any person acting under paragraph 4 above) provide the Company with any forms, documents or other information reasonably required by the Company in connection with the grant. The Company shall have the right to deduct or cause to be deducted from any payment made in settlement of a stock appreciation right any United States federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other taxes that it determines are required by law to be withheld with respect to such payment. If the amount requested for the purpose of satisfying the withholding obligation is not paid, the Company may refuse to furnish common shares upon exercise of the Option or common shares and/or cash upon settlement of the stock appreciation right. 8. In accordance with the provisions of the Plan, if the Participant is or becomes a member of senior management and meets the eligibility requirements on the date of the Option exercise, as defined by the Committee, upon request, the Company will assist the Participant in obtaining financing from the Company or one of its Affiliates, or from a bank or other third party, in such amount as is required to permit the exercise of this Option and/or the payment of any taxes required to be withheld by the Company in respect thereof. Section II MASTER AGREEMENT PROVISIONS RELATING TO AWARDS OF RESTRICTED STOCK Sections II and V of this Master Agreement, together with an Award Schedule referring to Section II of this Master Agreement, shall contain the terms of a specific Restricted Stock Award ("RSA") issued to a Participant. Each Award Schedule shall specify: the number of common shares of the Company awarded, the date of the Award, the Expiration Date (as defined below) and any additional terms applicable to the Award. Such additional terms may address any matter deemed appropriate by the Committee or its delegate and may include terms not contained in this Master Agreement and/or may delete terms contained in this Master Agreement. 1. An RSA consists of the number of common shares of the Company having a par value of $.60 per share (the "common shares") specified in an Award Schedule and is subject to the provisions of the Plan. In addition, the following terms, conditions and restrictions apply to RSAs issued under the Plan: (a) Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, such common shares cannot be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of (except that Participants may designate a beneficiary as provided herein, on or before the expiration date specified in an Award Schedule (the "Expiration Date") and prior to the subsequent issuance to a Participant (or, in the event of a Participant's death, the Participant's designated beneficiary) of a certificate for such common shares free of any legend relating to the terms, conditions and restrictions provided for in this Master Agreement. If a Participant or anyone claiming under or through such Participant attempts to violate this Subparagraph 1(a), such attempted violation shall be null and void and without effect, and the Company's obligation to make any further payments or deliveries (in stock or cash) hereunder shall terminate. (b) An RSA shall be evidenced by a share certificate or an uncertificated book entry memo position maintained by the Company's transfer agent and registrar. (c) If (i) a Participant's continuous employment with the Company and its Affiliates (as defined in the Plan) shall terminate for any reason on or before the Expiration Date, except for a period of Related Employment (as defined in the Plan), and except as provided in Subparagraph 1(d) below or (ii) within the period following the Expiration Date as determined by the Committee, a Participant (or such Participant's designated beneficiary) has not paid to the Company or such Affiliate or other person an amount equal to any United States federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other taxes which the Company determines is required to be withheld in respect of such shares, or fails to provide such information as is described in Paragraph 3 below, then, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the Participant's RSA or portion thereof shall be automatically terminated, cancelled, and rendered null and void as of the Expiration Date without any action on the part of the Company, and the Company shall be deemed to have exercised its repurchase option without the requirement of any payment, and shall be entitled to the return from such Participant (or the Participant's designated beneficiary or the Secretary of the Company) of any share certificate(s) issued in respect of the Award or the cancellation of any book entry memo position maintained by the Company's transfer agent and registrar with respect to a Participant's RSA. (d) On or before the Expiration Date, the Committee shall have the authority, in its sole discretion, to determine whether and to what extent, the termination provisions of Subparagraph l(c) shall cease to be effective with respect to a Participant's Award in the following situations: (i) a Participant shall die or have a termination of employment or Related Employment by reason of disability or retirement (as such terms are defined in the Plan and interpreted and administered by the Committee); or (ii) in such circumstances as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall deem appropriate if, since the Award Date, a Participant has been in the continuous employment of the Company or an Affiliate or has undertaken Related Employment. (e) The share certificate, if any, issued in respect of a RSA shall be held in escrow by the Secretary of the Company during the period up to and including the date determined by the Committee pursuant to Paragraph 1(c) above, unless otherwise determined by the Committee. 2. In the event of any change in the outstanding common shares of the Company by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, split-up, split-off, spin-off, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, rights offering, reorganization, combination or exchange of shares, sale by the Company of all or part of its assets, distribution to shareholders other than a normal cash dividend, or other extraordinary or unusual event, or in the event a Participant (or the Participant's designated beneficiary) receives any shares, securities or other property in respect of the common shares which have been awarded to a participant (including, but not limited to, by way of a dividend or other distribution on such common shares), any such shares, securities or other property received by a participant (or a Participant's designated beneficiary) in respect of the common shares awarded to such Participant shall be subject to the Company's right to receive or cancel such shares, securities or other property from such Participant (or such Participant's designated beneficiary) as provided in Subparagraph l(c) above and the other terms, conditions and restrictions specified herein to the extent that, and in such manner as, the Committee shall determine, and if the Committee shall determine, in its sole discretion, that such a change equitably requires an adjustment in the terms of this Award, such adjustment may be made by the Committee. Any such determination by the Committee under this Paragraph 2 shall be final, binding and conclusive. 3. If the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine that the Company or an Affiliate or other person has incurred or will incur any obligation to withhold any United States federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other taxes by reason of making of the Award to a Participant, the transfer of common shares to a Participant (or the Participant's designated beneficiary) pursuant thereto or the lapse or release of the termination provisions contained in Subparagraph l(c) above with respect to a Participant's Award or any other restrictions upon such shares, such Participant (or such Participant's designated beneficiary will, promptly upon demand therefor by the Company, pay to the Company or such Affiliate or other person any amount demanded by it for the purpose of satisfying such liability. If the amount so demanded is not promptly paid or if such Participant (or such Participant's designated beneficiary) shall fail to promptly provide the Company with any and all forms, documents or other information reasonably required by the Company in connection with the Award, the Company or its designee may refuse to permit the transfer of such shares and may, without further consent by or notice to such Participant (or such Participant's designated beneficiary), cancel the Award and the shares otherwise issuable under the Award.
Section III MASTER AGREEMENT PROVISIONS RELATING TO A GRANT OF A STOCK OPTION UNDER THE 1989 UK STOCK OPTION SCHEME (and not qualifying as an incentive stock UK Option) 1. Sections III and V of this Master Agreement, together with an Award Schedule referring to Section III of this Master Agreement, and applicable provisions of the 1989 UK Stock Option Scheme (the "Scheme"), shall contain all the terms of a specific UK Stock Option ("UK Option(s) ") issued to a Participant. Each Award Schedule shall specify: the number of common shares of the company subject to the option, the date of option grant, the option exercise date(s), the option exercise price and any additional terms applicable to the option. Such additional terms may address any matter deemed appropriate by the Committee or its delegate and may include terms not contained in this Master Agreement and or may delete terms contained in this Master Agreement. 2. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement and the applicable provisions of the Plan, a Participant may exercise this UK Option as follows: (a) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee no part of this UK Option may be exercised before the first Option Exercise Date listed in the Award Schedule or after the expiration of ten years from the Date of Grant set forth above; (b) At any time or times on or after the first Option Exercise Date listed in the Award Schedule, a Participant may exercise this UK Option as to any number of shares which, when added to the number of shares as to which a Participant has theretofore exercised this UK Option, if any, will not exceed one-third (33 1/3 %) of the total number of shares covered hereby; (c) At any time or times on or after the second Option Exercise Date listed above, a Participant may exercise this UK Option as to any number of shares which, when added to the number of shares as to which a Participant has theretofore exercised this UK Option, if any, will not exceed two-thirds (66 2/3 %) of the total number of shares covered hereby; and (d) At any time or times after the third Option Exercise Date listed above and thereafter through the tenth year after the Date of Grant hereof, a Participant may exercise this UK Option as to any number of shares which, when added to the number of shares as to which a Participant has theretofore exercised this UK Option, if any, will not exceed the total number of shares covered hereby. This UK Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a common share of the Company. (Section III, 3. omitted) 4. This UK Option may not be exercised by a Participant unless all of the following conditions are met: (a) Legal counsel for the Company must be satisfied at the time of exercise that the issuance of shares upon exercise will be in compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable United States federal, state, local and foreign laws; (b) The Participant must pay at the time of exercise the full subscription price for the shares being acquired hereunder, by paying in cash in United States dollars (which may be in the form of a check or promissory note, if permissible under Paragraph 8 below); and (c) The Participant must, at all times during the period beginning with the Date of Grant of this UK Option specified above and ending on the date of such exercise, have been employed by the Company or an Affiliate (as defined in the Scheme) or have been engaged in a period of Related Employment (as defined in the Scheme), except that if a Participant ceases to be so employed or terminates a period of Related Employment by reason of a Participant's disability or retirement (as such terms are defined in the Scheme and interpreted and administered by the Committee) while holding this UK Option which has not expired and has not been fully exercised, a Participant may, at any time within three years of the date of the onset of such disability or retirement (but in no event after the expiration of this UK Option under Paragraph 2(a) above with respect to ten years from the Date of Grant or expiration under Paragraph 5 below with respect to one year after the date of death), exercise this UK Option with respect to the number of shares, after giving full effect to the gradual vesting provisions of Paragraph 2 above, as to which a Participant could have exercised the UK Option on the date of the onset of such disability or retirement, or with respect to such number of shares adjusted pursuant to Clause 8 of the Scheme, and any remaining portion of this UK Option shall be cancelled by the Company. In the event a Participant's employment by the Company and its Affiliates or a Participant's Related Employment terminates for reasons other than disability or retirement as described in this Subparagraph 4(c) or death as described in Paragraph 5 below, this UK Option shall be cancelled by the Company. 5. A Participant may not sell, assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this UK Option, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution and is exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by a Participant. If a Participant or anyone claiming under or through a Participant attempts to violate this Paragraph 5, such attempted violation shall be null and void and without effect, and the Company's obligation to make any further payments hereunder shall terminate. If at the time of the Participant's death this UK Option has not been fully exercised, the Participant's estate or any person who acquires the right to exercise this UK Option by bequest or inheritance or by reason of the Participant's death may at any time within one year after the date of the Participant's death (but in no event after the expiration of this UK Option under Paragraph 2(a) above with respect to ten years from the Date of Grant or expiration under Paragraph 4(c) above with respect to three years), exercise this UK Option with respect to the number of shares, after giving full effect to the gradual vesting provisions of Paragraph 2 above, as to which a Participant could have exercised this UK Option at the time of the Participant's death, or such number of shares adjusted pursuant to Clause 8 of the Scheme, and any remaining portion of this UK Option shall be cancelled by the Company. The applicable requirements of Paragraph 4 above must be satisfied at the time of such exercise. 6. In the event of any change in the outstanding common shares of the Company by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, split-up, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, rights offering, reorganization, combination or exchange of shares, sale by the Company of all or part of its assets, distribution to shareholders other than a normal cash dividend or other extraordinary or unusual event occurring after the Date of Grant specified above and prior to its exercise in full, the number and kind of shares for which this UK Option may then be exercised and the subscription price per share may or may not be adjusted so as to reflect such change, all as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion subject to the prior approval of the Inland Revenue in writing. In the event that the Company or any of its Affiliates is a participant in a corporate merger, consolidation or other similar transaction, neither the Company nor such Affiliate shall be obligated to cause any other participant in such transaction to assume this UK Option or to substitute a new UK Option for this UK Option. 7. It shall be a condition to the obligation of the Company to furnish common shares upon exercise of a UK Option (a) that a Participant (or any person acting under Paragraph 5 above) pay to the Company or its designee, upon its demand, in accordance with Clause 5(b) of the Scheme, such amount as may be demanded for the purpose of satisfying its obligation or the obligation of any of its Affiliates or other person to withhold United Kingdom taxes, United States federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other taxes incurred by reason of the exercise of this UK Option or the transfer of shares thereupon and (b) that a Participant (or any person acting under Paragraph 5 above) provide the Company with any forms, documents or other information reasonably required by the Company in connection with the grant. If the amount requested for the purpose of satisfying the withholding obligation is not paid, the Company may refuse to furnish common shares upon exercise of this UK Option. 8. In accordance with the provisions of the Scheme, if a Participant is or becomes a member of senior management and meets the eligibility requirements on the date of the UK Option exercise, as defined by the Committee, upon a Participant's request, the Company will assist a Participant in obtaining financing from the Company or one of its Affiliates or from a bank or other third party, in such amount as is required to permit the exercise of this UK Option and/or the payment of any taxes required to be withheld by the Company in respect thereof. 9. It is hereby certified that this instrument falls within category L in the Schedule to the Stamp Duty (Exempt Instruments) Regulations 1987. 10. The terms of this UK Option are subject to the terms of the Scheme, which provides that the Committee may at any time alter or add to the terms of any UK Option granted under the Scheme, and if such an alteration or amendment is made at a time when the Scheme is approved by the Inland Revenue under Schedule 9 to the Taxes Act 1988, the approval will not thereafter have effect unless the Inland Revenue has approved the alteration or addition; provided that no alteration or addition to the terms of any UK Option granted under the Scheme (other than one which causes the Scheme to cease to hold Inland Revenue approval under Schedule 9) shall adversely affect in a material manner any right of a Participant with respect to any UK Option granted hereunder without a Participant's written consent, unless the Committee determines in its sole discretion that there have occurred or are about to occur significant changes in a Participant's position, duties or responsibilities, or significant changes in economic, legislative, regulatory, tax, accounting or cost/benefit conditions which are determined by the Committee in its sole discretion to have or to be expected to have a substantial effect on the performance of the Company, or any subsidiary, Affiliate, division or department thereof, on the Plan, the Scheme or on this UK Option. The Committee reserves the right to make amendments which will result in the Inland Revenue approval not having effect if it in its sole discretion considers that this is in the interests of the Company or any of its Affiliates. Section IV MASTER AGREEMENT PROVISIONS RELATING TO AWARDS OF A LETTER OF INTENT Dated February 27, 1995 Sections IV and V of this Master Agreement, together with an Award Schedule referring to Section IV of this Master Agreement, shall contain the terms of a specific Letter of Intent ("LOI") issued to a Participant. Each Award Schedule shall specify: the number of common shares of the Company to be awarded, the date of the Award (the "LOI Date"), the Expiration Date (as defined below) and any additional terms applicable to the Award. Such additional terms may address any matter deemed appropriate by the Committee or its delegate and may include terms not contained in this Master Agreement and/or may delete terms contained in this Master Agreement. 1. Subject to the provisions of the Plan and the following terms, conditions and restrictions herein set forth, the Company will issue to a Participant a certificate for the number of common shares of the Company having a par value of $.60 per share (the "common shares") specified in an Award Schedule as promptly as practicable after the last day of a period of four years from the LOI Date (the "Restricted Period"): (a) Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, rights under a LOI may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, on or before the last day of the Restricted Period and prior to the subsequent issuance to a Participant (or, in the event of a Participant's death, the Participant's designated beneficiary) of a certificate for such common shares free of any legend relating to the terms, conditions and restrictions provided for in this Master Agreement. If a Participant or anyone claiming under or through a Participant attempts to violate this Subparagraph l(a), such attempted violation shall be null and void and without effect, and the Company's obligations hereunder shall terminate. (b) If (i) a Participant's continuous employment with the Company and its Affiliates (as defined in the Plan) shall terminate for any reason on or before the last day of the Restricted Period, except for a period of Related Employment (as defined in the Plan), and except as provided in Subparagraph l(c) below or (ii) within the period following the last day of the Restricted Period as determined by the Committee, a Participant (or such Participant's designated beneficiary) has not paid to the Company or such Affiliate or other person an amount equal to any United States federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other taxes which the Company determines is required to be withheld in respect of such shares, or fails to provide such information as is described in Paragraph 3 below, then, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the Participant's LOI or portion thereof shall be automatically terminated, cancelled, and rendered null and void as of the last day of the Restricted Period without any action on the part of the Company. (c) If a Participant shall, on or before the last day of the Restricted Period, die or have a termination of employment or Related Employment by reason of disability or retirement (as such terms are defined in the Plan and interpreted and administered by the Committee), or by reason of such other circumstances as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall deem appropriate, after a Participant have been, since the LOI Date, in the continuous employment of the Company or an Affiliate or have undertaken Related Employment, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether and to what extent, if any, the Company's right as specified in Subparagraph 1(b) above (and in any and all other terms, conditions and restrictions imposed hereby) shall lapse and cease to be effective. The Company's right specified in Subparagraph 1(b) above shall be exercisable at such time as to the remaining shares, if any. (d) From time to time during the Restricted Period, the Company shall pay to a Participant an amount of cash equal to the regular quarterly cash dividend paid by the Company on a number of common shares of the Company equal to the number of common shares remaining to be issued to a Participant hereunder less any applicable United States federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other taxes that the Company determines are required to be withheld therefrom. The Company's obligation to make such payment shall cease with respect to any common shares at such time as the Company's right becomes exercisable with respect thereto pursuant to Subparagraph 1(b) or 1(c) above. 2. In the event of any change in the outstanding common shares of the Company by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, split-up, split-off, spin-off, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, rights offering, reorganization, combination or exchange of shares, sale by the Company of all or part of its assets, distribution to shareholders other than a normal cash dividend, or other extraordinary or unusual event occurring after the LOI Date and on or before the last day of the Restricted Period and prior to the issuance of a share certificate to a Participant, the terms of this LOI may be adjusted in such manner, if any, as the Committee in its sole discretion determines is equitably required, and any such determination by the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive. 3. If the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine that the Company or an Affiliate or other person has incurred or will incur any obligation to withhold any United States federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other taxes by reason of the issuance or operation of this LOI, a Participant (or, in the event of a Participant's death, the legal representatives of a Participant's estate) will, promptly upon demand therefor by the Company, pay to the Company or such Affiliate or other person, in accordance with Subparagraph 18(f) of the Plan, any amount demanded by it for the purpose of satisfying such obligation. If the amount so demanded is not promptly paid or if a Participant (or, in the event of a Participant's death, the legal representatives of a Participant's estate) shall fail to promptly provide the Company with any and all forms, documents or other information reasonably required by the Company in connection with this LOI, the Company or its designee may refuse to permit the transfer of any common shares and the distribution of any proceeds and may, without further consent by or notice to a Participant (or, in the event of a Participant's death, the legal representatives of a Participant's estate) cancel its agreement to issue to a Participant any common shares and cancel any shares otherwise issuable hereunder. Section V MASTER AGREEMENT COMMON PROVISIONS RELATING TO MORE THAN ONE FORM OF AWARD 1. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary (except for the provision dealing with a limitation under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended), upon a Change in Control (as defined below), the awardholder shall immediately be: (a) with respect to any Option or UK Option issued pursuant to the Option or UK Option provisions of this Agreement, 100 % vested in the total number of shares covered thereby such that they shall be fully exercisable; (b) with respect to any RSA issued pursuant to the RSA provisions of this Agreement, 100% vested in the total number of shares covered thereby such that they shall no longer be subject to any transfer restrictions imposed by this Agreement; and (c) with respect to any LOI issued pursuant to the LOI provisions of this Agreement, entitled to receive the total number of shares covered thereby such that they shall no longer be subject to any restrictions on issuance imposed by this Agreement. The Committee may not amend or delete this section of this Agreement in a manner that is detrimental to the awardholder, without his written consent. 2. A "Change in Control" means the happening of any of the following: (a) Any individual, entity or group (a "Person") (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) becomes the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 25 % or more of either (i) the then outstanding common shares of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Shares") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that such beneficial ownership shall not constitute a Change in Control if it occurs as a result of any of the following acquisitions of securities: (i) any acquisition directly from the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company or any corporation, partnership, trust or other entity controlled by the Company (a "Subsidiary"), (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary or (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a reorganization, merger or consolidation, if, following such reorganization, merger or consolidation, the conditions described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection (c) of this Change in Control Section are satisfied. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") became the beneficial owner of 25 % or more of the Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities, increases the proportional number of shares beneficially owned by the Subject Person; provided, that if a Change in Control would be deemed to have occurred (but for the operation of this sentence) as a result of the acquisition of Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities by the Company, and after such share acquisition by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the beneficial owner of any additional Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by the Subject Person, then a Change in Control shall then be deemed to have occurred; or (b) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of either an actual or threatened election contest or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board, including by reason of agreement intended to avoid or settle any such actual or threatened contest or solicitation; or (c) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a reorganization, merger or consolidation, in each case, unless, following such reorganization, merger or consolidation, (i) more than 60 % of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such reorganization, merger or consolidation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Shares and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation, (ii) no Person (excluding the Company, any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company, a Subsidiary or such corporation resulting from such reorganization, merger or consolidation or any subsidiary thereof, and any Person beneficially owning, immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation, directly or indirectly, 25 % or more of the Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 25 % or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such reorganization, merger or consolidation or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such reorganization, merger or consolidation were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such reorganization, merger or consolidation; or (d) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of (i) a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or (ii) the sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, other than to a corporation, with respect to which following such sale, lease, exchange or other disposition (A) more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Shares and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such sale, lease, exchange or other disposition, (B) no Person (excluding the Company and any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or a Subsidiary or such corporation or a subsidiary thereof and any Person beneficially owning, immediately prior to such sale, lease, exchange or other disposition, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the Outstanding Company Common Shares or Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of such corporation were members or the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or action of the Board providing for such sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of assets of the Company. 3. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if all or any portion of the payments or benefits to which the participant will be entitled under this Agreement, either alone or together with other payments or benefits which the participant receives or is entitled to receive directly or indirectly from the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any other person or entity that would be treated as a payor of parachute payments as hereinafter defined, under any other plan, agreement or arrangement, would constitute a "parachute payment" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") or any successor provision thereto and the regulations thereunder (except that "2.95" shall be used instead of "3" under Section 280G(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Code or any successor provision thereto), such payment or benefits provided to the participant under this Agreement, and any other payments or benefits which the participant receives or is entitled to receive directly or indirectly from the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any other person or entity that would be treated as a payor of parachute payments as hereinafter defined, under any other plan, agreement or arrangement which would constitute a parachute payment, shall be reduced (but not below zero) as described below to the extent necessary so that no portion thereof would constitute such a parachute payment as previously defined (except that "2.95" shall be used instead of "3" under Section 280G(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Code or any successor provision thereto). Whether payments or benefits to the participant are to be reduced pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph, and the extent to which they are to be so reduced, will be determined by the firm serving, immediately prior to the Change in Control, as the Company's independent auditors, or if that firm refuses to serve, by another qualified firm, whether or not serving as independent auditors, designated by the Administration Committee under the American Express Senior Executive Severance Plan (the "Firm"). The Firm will be paid reasonable compensation by the Company for such services. If the Firm concludes that its determination is inconsistent with a final determination of a court or the Internal Revenue Service, the Firm shall, based on such final determination, redetermine whether the amount payable to the participant should have been reduced and, if applicable, the amount of any such reduction. If the Firm determines that a lesser payment should have been made to the participant, then an amount equal to the amount of the excess of the earlier payment over the redetermined amount (the "Excess Amount") will be deemed for all purposes to be a loan to the participant made on the date of the participant's receipt of such Excess Amount, which the participant will have an obligation to repay to the Company on the fifth business day after demand, together with interest on such amount at the lowest applicable Federal rate (as defined in Section 1274(d) of the Code or any successor provision thereto), compounded semi-annually (the "Section 1274 Rate") from the date of the participant's receipt of such Excess Amount until the date of such repayment (or such lesser rate (including zero) as may be designated by the Firm such that the Excess Amount and such interest will not be treated as a parachute payment as previously defined). If the Firm determines that a greater payment should have been made to the participant, within five business days of such determination, the Company will pay to the participant the amount of the deficiency, together with interest thereon from the date such amount should have been paid to the date of such payment, at the Section 1274 Rate (or such lesser rate (including zero) as may be designated by the Firm such that the amount of such deficiency and such interest will not be treated as a parachute payment as previously defined). If a reduction is to be made pursuant to this paragraph, the Firm will have the right to determine which payments and benefits will be reduced as described below based on the following hierarchy from the first to be reduced to the last (or on such other hierarchy chosen by the Firm in its sole discretion), either those under this Agreement alone or such other payments or benefits which the participant receives or is entitled to receive directly or indirectly from the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any other person or entity that would be treated as a payor of parachute payments as previously defined, under any other plan, agreement or arrangement: (I) nonqualified stock option awards; (II) restricted stock awards, awards in lieu of restricted stock awards, and restricted stock units; (III) amounts payable under deferred compensation (including, but not limited to, base salary, cash bonus or annual incentive awards, and long-term incentive awards) programs; (IV) any other awards or amounts not described in (I), (II) or (III) above that would be payable or provided upon a Change in Control; (V) amounts payable under severance benefit plans; (VI) amounts payable under annual incentive (e.g., cash bonus) plans; (VII) portfolio grant awards and performance grant awards; (VIII) amounts payable under employee welfare benefit plans, such as life insurance plans (including, but not limited to, the American Express Key Executive Life Insurance Plan); (IX) amounts payable under nonqualified employee pension benefit plans; and (X) any other awards or amounts not described in (V), (VI), (VII), (VIII) or (IX) above that would be payable or provided upon a termination of employment that occurs within two years after a Change in Control as described in the Change in Control provision above. The payments and benefits subject to reduction pursuant to this paragraph include one or more attributes thereof, including, but not limited to, acceleration of the time for the vesting or payment thereof and the crediting of additional interest equivalents thereunder. Such reduction may be effected by the reduction or elimination, in whole or in part, of any such payment or benefit (including any or all attributes thereof). If a payment or benefit (including any or all attributes thereof) is reduced in part, the remaining portion of the payment or benefit (including any or all attributes thereof) will continue in full force and effect under the provisions of such payment or benefit (including any or all attributes thereof) as if the Change in Control did not occur and without regard to such reduction or elimination. Nothing in the preceding three sentences of this paragraph is intended or should be interpreted to change the calculated reduction amounts and procedure of this paragraph. 4. The terms of any RSA, Option or LOI (including terms under the applicable Master Agreement or any Award Schedule) may be amended from time to time by the Committee in its sole discretion in any manner that it deems appropriate (including, but not limited to, acceleration of the date of payments thereunder); provided, however, that no such amendment shall adversely affect in a material manner any right of a Participant under such RSA, Option or LOI without the written consent of such Participant, unless the Committee determines in its sole discretion that there have occurred or are about to occur significant changes in such Participant's position, duties or responsibilities, or significant changes in economic, legislative, regulatory, tax, accounting or cost/benefit conditions which are determined by the Committee in its sole discretion to have or to be expected to have a substantial effect on the performance of the Company, or any subsidiary, affiliate, division, or department thereof, on the Plan or on a RSA, Option or LOI under the Plan; provided, further, however, that the Committee shall not have the authority to amend any Option held by any executive officer of the Company as defined in rule 3(b)(7) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 so that the amount of compensation an executive officer could receive is not based solely on an increase in the value of common shares of the Company, or to otherwise amend any Award issued to such executive officer if the amendment would cause compensation payable thereunder to be nondeductible under section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or any successor provision) or regulations thereunder assuming such executive officer is a covered employee for purposes of such section. 5. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, a Participant may, by completing a form acceptable to the Company and returning it to the Corporate Secretary's Office in New York City, name a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any payment or exercise any rights to which such Participant may become entitled under an Award in the event of such Participant's death. A Participant may change his or her designated beneficiary or beneficiaries from time to time by submitting a new form to the Corporate Secretary's Office in New York City, to the extent permitted by law (for example, unless such Participant has made a prior irrevocable designation). If a Participant does not designate a beneficiary, or if no designated beneficiary is living on the date any amount becomes payable under an Award, such payment will be made to the legal representatives of such Participant's estate, which will be deemed to be the Participant's designated beneficiary under the Award. 6. If the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine that the listing upon any securities exchange or registration or qualification under any United States federal, state, local or foreign law of any common shares to be delivered pursuant to an Award is necessary or desirable, delivery of such shares shall not be made in common shares until such listing, registration or qualification shall have been completed. Until a certificate for some or all of the common shares subject to an LOI is issued to a Participant, a Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder of the Company and, in particular, shall not be entitled to vote such common shares or to receive any dividend or other distribution paid in respect thereof. 7. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may approve and the Company may issue RSAs, Options, UK Options, or LOIs that are not governed by the provisions contained in this Master Agreement. 8. Any action taken or decision made by the Company, the Board, or the Committee or its delegates arising out of or in connection with the construction, administration, interpretation or effect of any provision of the Plan, the Scheme or this Master Agreement shall lie within its sole and absolute discretion, as the case may be, and shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Participant and all persons claiming under or through the Participant. By receipt of such Awards or other benefit under the Plan, the Participant and each person claiming under or through the Participant shall be conclusively deemed to have indicated acceptance and ratification of, and consent to, any action taken under the Plan or the Scheme, by the Company, the Board or the Committee or its delegates. 9. The validity, construction, interpretation, administration and effect of the Plan or the Scheme and of its rules and regulations, and rights relating to the Plan or the Scheme, and to any Award issued under this Master Agreement, shall be governed by the substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of the State of New York, in the United States of America. 10. The Committee may rescind, without further notice to the Participant, any Award issued to the Participant under the Plan in duplicate, or in error, as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee. 11. As used in this Section V, "Award" shall mean any long-term incentive award issued under the Plan and subject to the terms of this Master Agreement.


