FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20051017164348.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 DATE OF REPORT (DATE OF EARLIEST EVENT REPORTED) OCTOBER 17, 2005 AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY -------------------------------------------------- (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) NEW YORK ----------------------------------------- (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) 1-7657 13-4922250 ------------------ -------------------------- (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 200 VESEY STREET, WORLD FINANCIAL CENTER, NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10285 ---------------------------------- ------ (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) (212) 640-2000 ----------------------------------------------- (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) None -------------------------------------------------------- (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): / / Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) / / Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) / / Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) / / Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE NEW SEGMENT PRESENTATION Effective September 30, 2005, American Express Company (the Company or American Express) realigned its segment presentation to reflect the spin-off of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (Ameriprise), formerly known as American Express Financial Corporation. The new segments are: U.S. Card Services, International Card & Global Commercial Services, Global Network & Merchant Services, and Corporate & Other. Financial and other information reflecting the realignment of the Company's segments is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. U.S. Card Services includes the U.S. proprietary consumer card business, OPEN: The Small Business Network from American Express, the Travelers Cheques and Prepaid Services business and the American Express U.S. Consumer Travel Network. Charge and credit cards generate revenue for the Company primarily through discount revenue, net finance charge revenue and card fees. Prepaid Services, including Travelers Cheques, earn investment income as cash is invested prior to encashment of Travelers Cheques or use of other prepaid products, in addition to other fees. International Card & Global Commercial Services provides proprietary consumer cards and small business cards outside the United States. International Card & Global Commercial Services also offers global corporate products and services, including Corporate Card, issued to individuals through a corporate account established by their employer; Business Travel, which helps businesses manage their travel expenses through a variety of travel-related products and services; and Corporate Purchasing Solutions, an account established by a company to pay for everyday business expenses such as office and computer supplies. International Card & Global Commercial Services also includes American Express Bank Ltd. which provides financial products and services to retail customers and wealthy individuals outside the United States and financial institutions around the world. International Card & Global Commercial Services derives its revenues from a number of sources including discount revenue from business billed on its proprietary card and corporate payment and expense management products, net finance charge revenue, net interest income from its international banking operation and various revenues and fees from its corporate travel management services and other products. Global Network & Merchant Services consists of the Merchant Services businesses and Global Network Services. The Global Merchant Services businesses develop and manage relationships with merchants that accept American Express branded cards; authorize and record transactions; pay merchants; and provide a variety of value-added point-of-sale and back office services. Global Network Services develops and manages relationships with third parties that issue American Express branded cards and/or establish relationships with merchants to accept American Express branded cards. In addition, in particular emerging markets, issuance of certain proprietary cards is managed within the Global Network Services business. Global Network & Merchant Services works with merchant and bank partners to develop and market product propositions, operate systems that enable third parties to interface with the American Express global network and provide network functions that include operations, service delivery, systems, authorization, clearing, settlement and brand advertising, new product development and marketing. Global Network & Merchant Services derives its revenues primarily from discount revenue charged to merchants. Other revenues include royalties, contributions from joint venture partnerships and fees charged to merchants and partners for value-added services. Corporate & Other consists of corporate functions and auxiliary businesses including American Express Publishing and the leasing product line of the Company's small business financing unit, American Express Business Finance Corporation, which was sold in 2004.
EXHIBIT
99.1 Unaudited Selected Consolidated Statements of Income for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004, and for the quarters ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003; March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003; September 30, 2004 and 2003; and December 31, 2004 and 2003. Unaudited Selected Financial Information by Segment for the quarters ended June 30, 2005 and 2004; March 31, 2005 and 2004; September 30, 2004; and December 31, 2004.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY (REGISTRANT) By: /s/ Stephen P. Norman --------------------- Name: Stephen P. Norman Title: Secretary DATE: October 17, 2005
EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT 99.1 NEW SEGMENT PRESENTATION Effective September 30, 2005, American Express Company (the Company or American Express) realigned its segment presentation to reflect the spin-off of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (Ameriprise), formerly known as American Express Financial Corporation. The new segments are: U.S. Card Services, International Card & Global Commercial Services, Global Network & Merchant Services, and Corporate & Other. Results of the business segments reflect essentially each segment as a stand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives these results allocates income and expense using various methodologies as described below. REVENUES The Company applies a transfer pricing methodology for the allocation of discount revenue and certain other revenues between segments. Discount revenue is earned by segments based on the volume of merchant business generated by cardmembers at predetermined rates. Within the U.S. Card Services and International Card & Global Commercial Services segments, discount revenue reflects the issuer component of the overall discount rate and within the Global Network & Merchant Services segment, discount revenue reflects the network component of the overall discount rate. Net finance charge revenue and net card fees are directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported. EXPENSES Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses are reflected in each segment based on actual expenses incurred within the segment, with the exception of brand advertising, which is reflected in the Global Network & Merchant Services segment. The provision for losses reflects credit-related expenses as incurred within each segment. Human resources and other expenses reflect expenses incurred directly within each segment as well as expenses related to the Company's support services, which are allocated to each segment based on support service activities directly attributable to the segment. Other overhead expenses are allocated to segments based on each segment's level of pre-tax income. Financing requirements are managed on a consolidated basis. Funding costs are allocated to segments based on segment funding requirements. CAPITAL Each business segment is allocated capital based on business model operating requirements, risk measures and regulatory capital requirements. Business model requirements include capital needed to support operations and specific balance sheet items. The risk measures include considerations for credit, market and operational risks. Regulatory capital requirements include the capital amounts defined for well-capitalized financial institutions. INCOME TAXES Income taxes are allocated to each business segment based on the estimated effective tax rates applicable to the various businesses that comprise the segment. *** FINANCIAL TARGETS The Company manages the overall business with a view towards achieving long-term financial targets of 8% revenue growth, 12 - 15% EPS growth, and 28 - - 30% return on equity, on average and over time. Specific decisions to allocate investment dollars and marketing resources at the segment level are based on management's assessment of market conditions and competitive opportunities. Accordingly, results at the segment level may vary significantly from period to period. ***
Managed Basis Presentation Certain statistical information shown on a consolidated basis and certain financial and statistical information shown with respect to U.S. Card Services is presented on a "managed basis," as if there had been no cardmember lending securitization transactions, and to reflect certain tax-exempt investment income as if it had been earned on a taxable basis. In addition, International Card & Global Commercial Services reflects a reclassification of certain foreign exchange services as revenues on a managed basis. For these business segments, this is the basis used by management to evaluate operations. These adjustments are discussed further below. The Global Network & Merchant Services and Corporate & Other information are presented on a GAAP basis. For U.S. Card Services, managed basis means the presentation assumes there have been no securitization transactions, i.e. all securitized cardmember loans and related income effects are reflected as if they were in the Company's balance sheet and income statements, respectively. Management believes that a full picture of trends in the Company's cardmember lending business can only be derived by evaluating the performance of both securitized and non-securitized cardmember loans. Asset securitization is just one of several ways for the Company to fund cardmember loans. Use of a managed basis presentation, including non-securitized and securitized cardmember loans, presents a more accurate picture of the key dynamics of the cardmember lending business, avoiding distortions due to the mix of funding sources at any particular point in time. The Company does not currently securitize international loans. Irrespective of the funding mix, it is important for management and investors to see metrics, such as changes in delinquencies and write-off rates, for the entire cardmember lending portfolio because they are more representative of the economics of the aggregate cardmember relationships and ongoing business performance and trends over time. It is also important for investors to see the overall growth of cardmember loans and related revenue in order to evaluate market share. These metrics are significant in evaluating the Company's performance and can only be properly assessed when all non-securitized and securitized cardmember loans are viewed together on a managed basis. The managed basis presentation for U.S. Card Services also reflects an increase to interest income recorded to enable management to evaluate tax exempt investments on a basis consistent with taxable investment securities. On a GAAP basis, interest income associated with tax exempt investments is recorded based on amounts earned. Accordingly, information presented on a managed basis assumes that tax exempt securities earned income at rates as if the securities produced taxable income with a corresponding increase in the provision for income taxes. The managed basis presentation for International Card & Global Commercial Services reflects a foreign exchange services reclassification for revenues earned related to the sale and purchase of foreign currencies for customers as part of the foreign exchange business. On a GAAP basis, these revenues are included with other foreign exchange items that are reflected in other operating expenses. Management views foreign exchange services as a revenue generating activity and makes operating decisions based upon that information. Accordingly, information presented on a managed basis assumes that the amounts earned are included in other revenue with a corresponding increase in other operating expenses.
All information in the following tables is presented on a basis prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), unless otherwise indicated. The information presented herein reflects discontinued operations presentation for the spin-off of Ameriprise effective as of September 30, 2005 and certain dispositions, and is revised from previously reported results. AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. (A) Reflects a $109 million non-cash pretax charge ($71 million after-tax) associated with discontinued operations related to the January 1, 2004 adoption of SOP 03-1. 1
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (Millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. (A) Reflects a $109 million non-cash pretax charge ($71 million after-tax) associated with discontinued operations related to the January 1, 2004 adoption of SOP 03-1. 2
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (CONTINUED) SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (A) Reflects a $109 million non-cash pretax charge ($71 million after-tax), or $0.06 on a basic and $0.05 on a diluted per share basis, associated with discontinued operations related to the January 1, 2004 adoption of SOP 03-1. (B) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis using net income and total shareholders' equity (including discontinued operations) as included in the historical Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. * Includes discontinued operations reflected in the Company's historical Consolidated Financial Statements. 3
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Millions) 4
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Millions) (A) Reflects a $109 million non-cash pretax charge ($71 million after-tax) associated with discontinued operations related to the January 1, 2004 adoption of SOP 03-1. (B) Reflects a $20 million non-cash pretax charge ($13 million after-tax) associated with discontinued operations related to the December 31, 2003 adoption of FIN 46, as revised. 5
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (Millions) (A) Reflects a $109 million non-cash pretax charge ($71 million after-tax) associated with discontinued operations related to the January 1, 2004 adoption of SOP 03-1. 6
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (CONTINUED) SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (A) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis using net income and total shareholders' equity (including discontinued operations) as included in the historical Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. * Includes discontinued operations reflected in the Company's historical Consolidated Financial Statements. 7
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (CONTINUED) SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (A) Reflects a $109 million non-cash pretax charge ($71 million after-tax), or $0.06 on a basic and $0.05 on a diluted per share basis, associated with discontinued operations related to the January 1, 2004 adoption of SOP 03-1. (B) Reflects a $20 million non-cash pretax charge ($13 million after-tax), or $0.01 per share on both a basic and diluted basis, associated with discontinued operations related to the December 31, 2003 adoption of FIN 46, as revised. (C) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis using net income and total shareholders' equity (including discontinued operations) as included in the historical Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. * Includes discontinued operations reflected in the Company's historical Consolidated Financial Statements. 8
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Card billed business and cards-in-force include activities related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, cash advances on proprietary cards and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. Average basic cardmember spending and average fee per card are computed from proprietary card activities only. (B) Computed as follows: Discount Revenue from all card spending (proprietary and Global Network Services) at merchants divided by all billed business (proprietary and Global Network Services) generating discount revenue at such merchants. Only merchants acquired by the Company are included in the computation. Discount rates have been restated on a historical basis from those previously disclosed, primarily due to the inclusion in the computation of the Global Network Services partner portion of discount revenue, as well as the Company's portion of discount revenue. (C) Computed from information provided herein. 9
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED) (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. * - Computed on an annualized basis. 10
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Card billed business and cards-in-force include activities related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, cash advances on proprietary cards and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. Average basic cardmember spending and average fee per card are computed from proprietary card activities only. (B) Computed as follows: Discount Revenue from all card spending (proprietary and Global Network Services) at merchants divided by all billed business (proprietary and Global Network Services) generating discount revenue at such merchants. Only merchants acquired by the Company are included in the computation. Discount rates have been restated on a historical basis from those previously disclosed, primarily due to the inclusion in the computation of the Global Network Services partner portion of discount revenue, as well as the Company's portion of discount revenue. (C) Computed from information provided herein. 11
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Card billed business and cards-in-force include activities related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, cash advances on proprietary cards and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. Average basic cardmember spending and average fee per card are computed from proprietary card activities only. (B) Computed as follows: Discount Revenue from all card spending (proprietary and Global Network Services) at merchants divided by all billed business (proprietary and Global Network Services) generating discount revenue at such merchants. Only merchants acquired by the Company are included in the computation. Discount rates have been restated on a historical basis from those previously disclosed, primarily due to the inclusion in the computation of the Global Network Services partner portion of discount revenue, as well as the Company's portion of discount revenue. (C) Computed from information provided herein. 12
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED) (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) * - Computed on an annualized basis. 13
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED) (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) * - Computed on an annualized basis. 14
U.S. CARD SERVICES STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Millions) 15
U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION Quarters Ended June 30, (Millions) The tables above reconcile the GAAP basis for certain income statement line items to the managed basis information, where different. Securitization income, net represents the non-credit provision components of the net gains and charges from securitization activities, the amortization and related impairment charges, if any, of the related interest-only strip, excess spread related to securitized loans, net finance charge revenue on retained interests in securitized loans and servicing income, net of related discounts or fees. Management views any net gains from securitizations as discretionary benefits to be used for card acquisition expenses, which are reflected in both marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses and other operating expenses. Consequently, the managed Selected Financial Information above for the quarters ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 assumes that gains from new issuances and charges from the amortization and maturities of outstanding lending securitization transactions of $1 million and $9 million, respectively, are offset by higher marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses of $1 million and $6 million, respectively, and other operating expenses of nil and $3 million, respectively. Accordingly, the incremental expenses, as well as the impact of this net activity, have been eliminated. The tax equivalent effect represents an increase to interest income recorded to enable management to evaluate tax exempt investments on a basis consistent with taxable investment securities. On a GAAP basis, interest income associated with tax exempt investments is recorded based on amounts earned. Accordingly, the managed Selected Financial Information above for the quarters ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 assumes that tax exempt securities earned income at rates as if the securities produced taxable income with a corresponding increase in the provision for income taxes. 16
U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION Quarters Ended (Millions) The tables above reconcile the GAAP basis for certain income statement line items to the managed basis information, where different. Securitization income, net represents the non-credit provision components of the net gains and charges from securitization activities, the amortization and related impairment charges, if any, of the related interest-only strip, excess spread related to securitized loans, net finance charge revenue on retained interests in securitized loans and servicing income, net of related discounts or fees. Management views any net gains from securitizations as discretionary benefits to be used for card acquisition expenses, which are reflected in both marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses and other operating expenses. Consequently, the managed Selected Financial Information above for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 assumes that gains from new issuances and charges from the amortization and maturities of outstanding lending securitization transactions of $6 million are offset by higher marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses of $4 million and other operating expenses of $2 million. Accordingly, the incremental expenses, as well as the impact of this net activity, have been eliminated. The tax equivalent effect represents an increase to interest income recorded to enable management to evaluate tax exempt investments on a basis consistent with taxable investment securities. On a GAAP basis, interest income associated with tax exempt investments is recorded based on amounts earned. Accordingly, the managed Selected Financial Information above for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 assumes that tax exempt securities earned income at rates as if the securities produced taxable income with a corresponding increase in the provision for income taxes. 17
U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION Quarters Ended (Millions) The tables above reconcile the GAAP basis for certain income statement line items to the managed basis information, where different. Securitization income, net represents the non-credit provision components of the net gains and charges from securitization activities, the amortization and related impairment charges, if any, of the related interest-only strip, excess spread related to securitized loans, net finance charge revenue on retained interests in securitized loans and servicing income, net of related discounts or fees. Management views any net gains from securitizations as discretionary benefits to be used for card acquisition expenses, which are reflected in both marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses and other operating expenses. Consequently, the managed Selected Financial Information above for the quarters ended September 30, 2004 and June 30, 2004 assumes that gains from new issuances and charges from the amortization and maturities of outstanding lending securitization transactions of $9 million and $9 million, respectively, are offset by higher marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses of $6 million and $6 million, respectively, and other operating expenses of $3 million and $3 million, respectively. Accordingly, the incremental expenses, as well as the impact of this net activity, have been eliminated. The tax equivalent effect represents an increase to interest income recorded to enable management to evaluate tax exempt investments on a basis consistent with taxable investment securities. On a GAAP basis, interest income associated with tax exempt investments is recorded based on amounts earned. Accordingly, the managed Selected Financial Information above for the quarters ended September 30, 2004 and June 30, 2004 assumes that tax exempt securities earned income at rates as if the securities produced taxable income with a corresponding increase in the provision for income taxes. 18
U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION Quarter Ended (Millions) The tables above reconcile the GAAP basis for certain income statement line items to the managed basis information, where different. Securitization income, net represents the non-credit provision components of the net gains and charges from securitization activities, the amortization and related impairment charges, if any, of the related interest-only strip, excess spread related to securitized loans, net finance charge revenue on retained interests in securitized loans and servicing income, net of related discounts or fees. Management views any net gains from securitizations as discretionary benefits to be used for card acquisition expenses, which are reflected in both marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses and other operating expenses. Consequently, the managed Selected Financial Information above for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 assumes that gains from new issuances and charges from the amortization and maturities of outstanding lending securitization transactions of $8 million are offset by higher marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses of $4 million and other operating expenses of $4 million. Accordingly, the incremental expenses, as well as the impact of this net activity, have been eliminated. The tax equivalent effect represents an increase to interest income recorded to enable management to evaluate tax exempt investments on a basis consistent with taxable investment securities. On a GAAP basis, interest income associated with tax exempt investments is recorded based on amounts earned. Accordingly, the managed Selected Financial Information above for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 assumes that tax exempt securities earned income at rates as if the securities produced taxable income with a corresponding increase in the provision for income taxes. 19
U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Computed from information provided herein. (B) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis using equity capital allocated to segments based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures and regulatory capital requirements. * - Computed on an annualized basis. 20
U.S. CARD SERVICES STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Millions) 21
U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Computed from information provided herein. (B) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis using equity capital allocated to segments based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures and regulatory capital requirements. * - Computed on an annualized basis. 22
INTERNATIONAL CARD & GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Millions) 23
INTERNATIONAL CARD & GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION Quarters Ended June 30, (Millions) The tables above reconcile the GAAP basis for certain income statement line items to the managed basis information, where different. The foreign exchange services reclassification reflects revenues earned related to the sale and purchase of foreign currencies for customers as part of the foreign exchange business. On a GAAP basis, these revenues are included with other foreign exchange items that are reflected in other operating expenses. Management views foreign exchange services as a revenue generating activity and makes operating decisions based upon that information. Accordingly, the managed Selected Financial Information above for the quarters ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 assumes that the amounts earned are included in other revenue with a corresponding increase in other operating expenses. 24
INTERNATIONAL CARD & GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION Quarters Ended (Millions) The tables above reconcile the GAAP basis for certain income statement line items to the managed basis information, where different. The foreign exchange services reclassification reflects revenues earned related to the sale and purchase of foreign currencies for customers as part of the foreign exchange business. On a GAAP basis, these revenues are included with other foreign exchange items that are reflected in other operating expenses. Management views foreign exchange services as a revenue generating activity and makes operating decisions based upon that information. Accordingly, the managed Selected Financial Information above for the quarters ended March 31, 2005, December 31, 2004 and September 30, 2004 assumes that the amounts earned are included in other revenue with a corresponding increase in other operating expenses. 25
INTERNATIONAL CARD & GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION Quarters Ended (Millions) The tables above reconcile the GAAP basis for certain income statement line items to the managed basis information, where different. The foreign exchange services reclassification reflects revenues earned related to the sale and purchase of foreign currencies for customers as part of the foreign exchange business. On a GAAP basis, these revenues are included with other foreign exchange items that are reflected in other operating expenses. Management views foreign exchange services as a revenue generating activity and makes operating decisions based upon that information. Accordingly, the managed Selected Financial Information above for the quarters ended June 30, 2004 and March 31, 2004 assumes that the amounts earned are included in other revenue with a corresponding increase in other operating expenses. 26
INTERNATIONAL CARD & GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Computed from information provided herein. (B) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis using equity capital allocated to segments based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures and regulatory capital requirements. * - Computed on an annualized basis. 27
INTERNATIONAL CARD & GLOBAL COMMERICAL SERVICES STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Millions) 28
INTERNATIONAL CARD & GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Computed from information provided herein. (B) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis using equity capital allocated to segments based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures and regulatory capital requirements. * - Computed on an annualized basis. 29
GLOBAL NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Millions) 30
GLOBAL NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (A) Global Card billed business includes activities related to proprietary cards, cards issued under Network partnership agreements, cash advances on proprietary cards and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. (B) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis using equity capital allocated to segments based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures and regulatory capital requirements. 31
GLOBAL NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Millions) 32
GLOBAL NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (A) Global Card billed business includes activities related to proprietary cards, cards issued under Network partnership agreements, cash advances on proprietary cards and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. (B) Computed on a trailing 12-month basis using equity capital allocated to segments based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures and regulatory capital requirements. 33


