FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20070622160225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
 June 20, 2007
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(212) 640-2000
 
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
o
                                   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Sec urities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                                   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                                   
Pre-co mmencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
On June 20, 2007, American Express Company (the "Company") announced the appointments of Alfred F. Kelly, Jr., as President of the Company and head of its Global Consumer Group and Edward P. Gilligan as Vice Chairman of the Company and head of its Global Business-to-Business Group.  The appointments of Messrs. Kelly and Gilligan to their respective roles become effective July 1, 2007.
(c)
                                 
Mr. Kelly, age 48, presently serves as the Company's Group President, Consumer, Small Business and Merchant Services, a post he has held since October 2005.  Prior thereto, Mr. Kelly served as Group President, U.S. Consumer and Small Business Services since June 2000.  Mr. Kelly joined the Company in 1987 in its Strategic Planning Department and has served in a series of increasingly senior positions since then.  Mr. Kelly is a director of The Hershey Company, a manufacturer of chocolate and sugar confectionery products.
Mr. Gilligan, age 47, presently serves as the Company's Group President, American Express International and Global Corporate Services, a post he has held since July 2005.  Prior thereto, Mr. Gilligan served as Group President, Global Corporate Services and International Payments since July 2003 and Group President, Global Corporate Services since June 2000.  Mr. Gilligan joined the Company in 1980 in its Finance department and has served in a number of key positions in the Company's travel, corporate services and card businesses since then.
A copy of the press release announcing the appointments of Messrs. Kelly and Gilligan, as well as certain other organizational and leadership changes at the Company, is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits
2
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
4

EXHIBIT 99.1
NEW YORK, June 20, 2007  American Express Company Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kenneth I. Chenault today announced management changes to reflect a reorganization of the company into two distinct customer-focused groups.
Effective July 1, these two new businesses will be headed by:
   Alfred F. Kelly, Jr., who is promoted to president of American Express Company. He will head the Global Consumer Group.
   Edward P. Gilligan, who is promoted to vice chairman of American Express Company. He will head the Global Business-to-Business Group.
Mr. Kelly and Mr. Gilligan will report to Mr. Chenault.
Mr. Kelly's new position includes worldwide responsibility for the consumer card business, the customer service network, small business, the pre-paid business, consumer travel, and risk, information management and banking. Mr. Kelly previously served as Group President, Consumer, Small Business and Merchant Services. He joined the American Express Strategic Planning department in 1987, was named a vice president of Technologies in 1988 and has held a series of increasingly senior positions at the company since then.
Mr. Gilligan's new position includes worldwide responsibility for the merchant business, the network services business, the commercial card business, business travel and international banking. He previously served as Group President, American Express International and Global Corporate Services. He joined American Express in 1980 in Finance and has held a number of key positions in the Travel, Corporate Services and Card businesses.
Also, as part of this new organization structure, Judson C. Linville is promoted to president and chief executive officer of the U.S. Consumer business. He will report to Mr. Kelly. In addition to continuing as head of the Consumer Card Services Group, Mr. Linville will also be responsible for the U.S Service Delivery Network, the U.S. Consumer Travel Network and the Travelers Cheque and Pre-paid Services Group. Mr. Linville joined American Express in 1989 and has since held a diverse set of roles including marketing and general management positions in Corporate Services, Service Delivery and Consumer Card.
"Over the past several years, American Express has delivered industry-leading growth by focusing on the global payments marketplace. We have invested in innovative new products and capabilities that have helped us to gain share in a highly competitive
marketplace," said Mr. Chenault. "We believe that organizing our business around customer-focused groups will better position us for growth and broaden our executive leadership team."
The Company also announced an Operating Committee that will be responsible for developing the company's strategic direction and policies. Messrs. Chenault, Kelly, Gilligan, and Linville will serve as members of the committee. Other members are: L. Kevin Cox, executive vice president, Human Resources, Ashwini Gupta, chief risk officer and president of Risk, Information Management and Banking, Daniel T. Henry, executive vice president and acting chief financial officer, Louise M. Parent, executive vice president and general counsel, and Stephen J. Squeri, executive vice president and chief information officer. The Operating Committee replaces the Global Leadership Team.
The following management changes were also announced today.
William H. Glenn was named president of the Global Establishment Services Group, reporting to Mr. Gilligan. He has worldwide responsibility for building the merchant network that serves both the proprietary business and network issuing partners.
Douglas E. Buckminster was named president, International Consumer Business, reporting to Mr. Kelly. He is responsible for the international consumer card, lending, insurance and product marketing functions.
American Express Company (www.americanexpress.com) is a leading global payments, network and travel company founded in 1850.
:  American Express Company, Mike O'Neill, 212-640-5951, mike.o'neill@aexp.com; Judy Tenzer, 212-640-0555, judy.g.tenzer@aexp.com
Contact Information


