FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20081209081508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 8, 2008 AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) New York 1-7657 13-4922250 - ---------------------------- ------------------------ ------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of incorporation Identification No.) or organization) 200 Vesey Street, World Financial Center New York, New York 10285 - --------------------------------------------------- ---------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 640-2000 --------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): | | Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) | | Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) | | Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) | | Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE On December 9, 2008, American Express Company (the "Company") and Delta Air Lines ("Delta") issued a joint press release announcing that they had agreed to an extension of the companies' exclusive co-brand credit card partnerships and the companies' other partnership arrangements, including American Express Membership Rewards, merchant acceptance and travel. A copy of such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. In connection with the extension of its arrangements with Delta, the Company expects to record a pre-tax charge of approximately $100 million (approximately $62 million after-tax) for the three months ending December 31, 2008. This reflects an increase in the Company's Membership Rewards balance sheet reserve to reflect the estimated impact of an increase in the cost per point that the Company will pay to Delta for previously-earned points that are expected to be redeemed through the Delta SkyMiles program. In addition, in light of recent conditions in the financial markets, the Company is providing the following update regarding its liquidity and capital resources from the information reported in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended September 30, 2008 (the "2008 Q3 Form 10-Q"): As previously disclosed, on October 3, 2008, the Company's subsidiaries, American Express Centurion Bank ("AECB") and American Express Bank, FSB ("AEBFSB" and together with "AECB", the "Banks"), received approval to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (the "FRBSF") (i.e., access to the Federal Reserve Bank discount window), subject to the discretion of the FRBSF and the amount of receivables pledged as qualifying collateral. The Federal Reserve previously indicated that credit card receivables are a form of qualifying collateral for secured borrowings made through the discount window or its Term Auction Facility (TAF) program. More recently, the Federal Reserve has indicated that charge card receivables are also a form of qualifying collateral. The Banks' access to the discount window, subject to the discretion of the FRBSF, provides them with an additional source of contingent liquidity, if needed. As previously disclosed, in October 2008 the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") established the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the "TLGP") to, among other things, temporarily guarantee newly-issued senior unsecured debt of eligible entities, including insured banks. Under the TLGP, certain newly-issued senior unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2009, is eligible for an FDIC guarantee of the timely payment of interest and principal in the event of a payment default. The guarantee is limited to June 30, 2012, even if the maturity of covered debt exceeds that date. -1-
In December 2008, the Banks completed the process pursuant to which they elected to participate in the TLGP. Based on a clarification by the FDIC of the rules governing the TLGP, the Company believes that the Banks, as FDIC depository institutions, could issue up to an aggregate $13.3 billion of senior unsecured debt that would be guaranteed under the TLGP, which is approximately $4.4 billion greater than the amount that the Company had initially believed the Banks would be eligible to issue as disclosed in its 2008 Q3 Form 10-Q. On December 8, 2008, AEBFSB agreed to issue the following amounts of senior unsecured debt guaranteed under the TLGP: - ----------------------- ----------------- ------------------------------- PRINCIPAL AMOUNT MATURITY DATE COUPON - ----------------------- ----------------- ------------------------------- $750 million December 10, 2010 1-month LIBOR + 85 basis points $1.25 billion December 9, 2011 1-month LIBOR + 98 basis points $3.5 billion December 9, 2011 3.15% As previously disclosed, in October 2008 the Company launched a retail certificate of deposit (CD) program through the Banks. Sales of these CDs are targeted at depositors in amounts that fully qualify for FDIC deposit insurance protection. The Company has raised approximately $4.6 billion of funding under this program through December 5, 2008, with a weighted average maturity of 18 months and a weighted average interest rate of 3.4% per annum. The amounts raised through the senior unsecured debt guaranteed under the TLGP and the CD program described above are being used to, among other things, satisfy the Company's approximately $3.6 billion of long-term debt obligations maturing during the three months ending December 31, 2008. Also as the Company has previously disclosed, on November 10, 2008, the U.S. Federal Reserve approved the Company's application to become a bank holding company and to be regulated by the Federal Reserve. The table below provides information regarding the Company's consolidated capital and certain capital ratios at September 30, 2008 (dollars in billions). -2-
The table below provides certain capital ratios for AECB and AEBFSB at September 30, 2008. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report includes forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The words "will," "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "could," "would," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they were made. American Express Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations or similar events affecting the airline or any other industry representing a significant portion of the Company's billed business, including any potential negative effect on particular card products and services and billed business generally that could result from the actual or perceived weakness of key business partners in such industries; and the risks associated with the Company's agreements with Delta Air Lines including, among others, the Company's ability to benefit from the opportunities presented by the agreements across its co-brand, Membership Rewards, merchant services and travel businesses and counterparty risk associated with the Company's agreement to purchase $1 billion of Delta SkyMiles rewards points. A further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in the reports of the Company filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (including its annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended September 30, 2008). EXHIBIT 99.1 Press Release, dated December 9, 2008. -3-
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY (REGISTRANT) By: /S/ STEPHEN P. NORMAN ------------------------- Name: Stephen P. Norman Title: Secretary Date: December 9, 2008 -4-
EXHIBIT INDEX Item No. Description - -------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release, dated December 9, 2008. -5-

EXHIBIT 99.1 [LOGO OF AMERICAN EXPRESS] [LOGO OF DELTA SKYTEAM] FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Delta Air Lines Corporate Communications 404-715-2554 American Express Desiree Fish 212-640-4761, desiree.c.fish@aexp.com DELTA AND AMERICAN EXPRESS ANNOUNCE MULTIYEAR EXTENSION FOR CO-BRANDED SKYMILES CREDIT CARD AGREEMENT PROVIDES DELTA WITH MORE THAN $2 BILLION IN COMBINED INCREMENTAL LIQUIDITY AND CONTRACT ENHANCEMENTS AGREEMENT TO RESULT IN EXPANDED OPPORTUNITIES FOR AMERICAN EXPRESS ACROSS CO-BRAND CREDIT CARD, MEMBERSHIP REWARDS, MERCHANT SERVICES AND TRAVEL ATLANTA AND NEW YORK, Dec. 9, 2008 - Delta Air Lines (NYSE: DAL) and American Express (NYSE: AXP) today announced a multiyear extension of their exclusive Co-brand Credit Card partnerships. The companies have offered a portfolio of card products since 1996 that provide valuable opportunities to earn and redeem Delta SkyMiles(R). The multiyear extension allows continued expansion of the program with positive benefits to both Delta and American Express. The companies also agreed to extensions of their other partnership arrangements, including American Express Membership Rewards, merchant acceptance and travel. As part of the broad-based partnership agreement, Delta will receive an immediate $1 billion boost to its liquidity from a purchase of SkyMiles. Delta expects to receive an additional $1 billion from contract improvements through 2010. In return, American Express will be able to grow the value of its Co-brand Cards and the Membership Rewards program. American Express Cardmembers will be offered expanded options for booking travel on the world's largest airline. In addition, American Express will have the opportunity to increase merchant acceptance in more places in the Midwest region of the United States. "As Delta integrates the Northwest WorldPerks program into Delta SkyMiles, our extended agreement with American Express offers continued financial benefits for both companies," said Delta President Edward H. Bastian. "Pairing the world's premier airline loyalty program with the world-class American Express brand continues a history of offering superior and innovative programs for our customers." "Working with Delta since the early '90s has helped us strengthen Cardmember loyalty and build substantial amounts of business," said Jud Linville, president and CEO of American Express Consumer Services. "Our Delta Co-brand Cards are among our most successful products, and we are delighted to build on this position following Delta's recent acquisition of Northwest. This is a great opportunity to expand in the Midwest, extend popular Membership Rewards options with new routes, and enhance unique Co-brand Card offers like the ability to redeem miles for any seat, any time on the world's largest airline." In late 2009, Delta plans to merge Northwest WorldPerks with SkyMiles to create the world's premier airline loyalty program and a consolidated Co-brand Credit Card program. Northwest WorldPerks Co-brand Cardholders can continue to earn WorldPerks miles just as they do today on their U.S. Bank issued cards, and all WorldPerks miles earned prior to integration will be safe and transferred in full to Delta SkyMiles when the two programs are integrated. Delta plans to continue its longstanding partnership with U.S. Bank through their existing corporate relationships including merchant acquiring, an expanded debit card program and corporate lending. The award-winning Delta SkyMiles program offers members multiple mileage-earning opportunities when flying Delta, Delta Shuttle(R), the Delta Connection(R) carriers, Delta AirElite(R) and other SkyTeam(R) airlines. Now in its 27th year, SkyMiles is one of the longest-running and most successful loyalty programs in the travel industry. It was named "Best Domestic Frequent Flyer program" for 2007 and 2008 by readers of EXECUTIVE TRAVELER magazine and "Best Frequent Flyer Program" for 2006 and 2007 by BUSINESS TRAVELER magazine. The program also received top honors for "Best Bonus Promotion" from INSIDEFLYER magazine at the 2007 Freddie Awards. Details of the SkyMiles program are available at delta.com/skymiles. ABOUT AMERICAN EXPRESS American Express Company (www.americanexpress.com) is a leading global payments and travel company founded in 1850. American Express issues a broad and diverse set of consumer, small business and corporate card products and services globally, including charge cards, credit cards, reward cards and co-brand cards. All American Express Cards offer access to a wide array of rewards, unique experiences and world-class customer service. Over the years, American Express Card products and services have been recognized as leaders in the industry by many organizations and media outlets. Most recently American Express ranked "Highest in Customer Satisfaction among Credit Card Companies," for the second consecutive year according to the second annual nationwide study by J.D. Power and Associates (jdpower.com). ABOUT DELTA AIR LINES Delta Air Lines is the world's largest airline. From its hubs in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis, Minneapolis-St. Paul, New York-JFK, Salt Lake City and Tokyo-Narita, Delta, its Northwest subsidiary and Delta Connection carriers offer service to more than 376 destinations worldwide in 66 countries and serve more than 170 million passengers each year. Delta's marketing alliances allow customers to earn and redeem either SkyMiles or WorldPerks on more than 16,000 daily flights offered by SkyTeam and other partners. Delta and its 75,000 worldwide employees are reshaping the aviation industry as the only U.S. airline to offer a full global network. Customers can check in for flights, print boarding passes, check bags and flight status at delta.com. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements in this news release that are not historical facts, including statements regarding our estimates, expectations, beliefs, intentions, projections or strategies for the future, may be "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the estimates, expectations, beliefs, intentions, projections and strategies reflected in or suggested by the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the cost of aircraft fuel; the impact that our indebtedness will have on our financial and operating activities and our ability to incur additional debt; the restrictions that financial covenants in our financing agreements will have on our financial and business operations; labor issues; interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports; our increasing dependence on technology in our operations; our ability to retain management and key employees; the ability of our credit card processors to take significant holdbacks in certain circumstances; the effects of terrorist attacks; competitive conditions in the airline industry; and our ability to achieve expected synergies from our merger with Northwest. Additional information concerning risks and uncertainties that could cause differences between actual results and forward-looking statements is contained in Delta's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on Delta's forward-looking statements, which represent Delta's views only as of Dec. 9, 2008, and which Delta has no current intention to update. ###


