FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20090428060405.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01
                                                
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On April 28, 2009, American Express Company (the "Company") and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China ("ICBC") issued a joint press release announcing that the Company has sold a portion of its H shares in ICBC in a private sale.  A copy of such press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Company expects to recognize a gain of approximately $210 million (approximately $132 million after tax) on the sale of its ICBC shares.
 
Separately, the Company reiterated the plans it announced on April 23, 2009, in connection with the reporting of its first quarter financial results that it intends to initiate additional reengineering efforts in the second quarter of 2009, including staff reductions, to help further reduce its operating costs.  These actions are expected to result in the recognition of a restructuring charge for the quarter ending June 30, 2009.  The estimated amount of this charge has not yet been determined.
 
Exhibit
 
99.1         Joint Press Release, dated April 28, 2009, of American Express Company and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China.
 
This report includes forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties.  The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "optimistic," "intend," "plan," "aim," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.  American Express Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to:  the success, timeliness and financial impact (including costs, cost savings, and other benefits, including increased revenues), and beneficial effect on the Company's operating expense to revenue ratio, both in the short-term (including during 2009) and over time, of reengineering initiatives being implemented or considered by the Company, including cost management, structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities and operations consolidation, outsourcing (including, among others, technologies operations), relocating certain functions to lower-cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the internet to save costs, and planned staff reductions relating to certain of such reengineering actions, and the Company's ability to reinvest the benefits arising from such reengineering actions in its businesses.  A further description of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and the Company's other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
638,061,116 ICBC H shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) to a select group of investors through a private sale. The shares represent the H-shares that become free from lock up today.
April 28, 2009  American Express has sold its
 
American Express continues to hold 638,061,117 H shares in ICBC. Pursuant to the Shareholder Rights Agreement between ICBC and American Express, the lock-up period for the remaining H-shares held by American Express will expire on October 20, 2009.
 
For further information about this transaction, please see the Form 8-K to be filed by American Express with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
ICBC
 
ICBC is the largest wholesale and retail bank in China by assets and deposits and is a market leader in many business areas including corporate and personal loans, deposits, mortgages, e-banking, custodian services and inter-bank clearing. It provides a wide range of commercial banking services to corporate and individual customers. ICBC has approximately 16,000 outlets and employs 382,000 people across China. It had total assets of RMB 10.98 trillion at the end of March, 2009.
 
American Express
 
American Express Company is a leading global payments and travel company founded in 1850. For more information, visit www.americanexpress.com.
 
Press Contacts:
 


