FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20100422171836.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01 Regulation
FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished under Item 2.02 - Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01 - Regulation FD Disclosure:
On April 22, 2010, American Express Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of 2010. A copy of such press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated herein by reference. In addition, in conjunction with the announcement of its financial results, American Express Company distributed additional financial information relating to its 2010 first quarter financial results and a 2010 First Quarter Earnings Supplement. Such additional financial information and the 2010 First Quarter Earnings Supplement are attached to this report as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3, respectively, and each is hereby incorporated by reference.
EXHIBIT
 
 
-2-
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  April 22, 2010
 
 
-3-
 
 
Exhibit
No.           Description
 
 
 
 
-4-
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
[Logo of American Express Company]
 
 
1
 
Refer to discussion regarding revenue drivers on page 2 of earnings release.
 
2
 
Represents income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, less (i) preferred share dividends and related accretion of $72 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, and (ii) earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items of $12 million and $4 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
 
 
 
New York  April 22, 2010 -today reported first-quarter net income of $885 million, up 103 percent from $437 million a year ago. Diluted per-share net income was $0.73, up 135 percent from $0.31.
American Express Company (NYSE: AXP)
Consolidated revenues net of interest expense were $6.6 billion, up 11 percent, compared to $5.9 billion in the year-ago period. The increase was the result of the consolidation of securitized cardmember loans and related debt onto the balance sheet in the first quarter. Revenues also reflect higher cardmember spending, offset by a smaller loan portfolio and lower yields on both the securitized and non-securitized portions of the portfolio.
3
Consolidated provisions for losses totaled $943 million, down 48 percent compared to $1.8 billion in the year-ago period. The decline reflected continued improvement in credit quality on the overall portfolio.
3
Consolidated expenses totaled $4.4 billion, up from $3.6 billion a year ago, reflecting higher investment in business building initiatives and higher rewards costs.
The company's return on average equity (ROE) was 18.0 percent, up from 16.3 percent a year ago.
During the first quarter, non-U.S. revenue, provision and expenses comparisons were higher due to the translation effects of a comparatively weaker U.S. dollar.
Cardmember spending was up 16 percent, rebounding strongly from the recessionary lows of last year, said Kenneth I. Chenault, chairman and chief executive officer.  Credit metrics also continued the improvement that began in the second half of 2009.
The biggest turnarounds in spending came from corporate cardmembers and banks who issue cards on our network. Consumer and small business volumes also rose in part because of strength in travel, entertainment and other discretionary categories.
Throughout the industry  and at American Express  we saw further signs that consumers are managing their post-recessionary finances more cautiously.
 
Upon the adoption of new accounting standards governing the accounting for transfers of financial assets and consolidation of variable interest entities on January 1, 2010, the company began consolidating the assets and liabilities of its previously unconsolidated American Express Credit Account Master Trust (Lending Trust) Among the changes arising from the consolidation of the Lending Trust, expenses related to written-off securitized cardmember loans moved from revenues net of interest expense into provisions for losses.
3
.
 
-2-
 
Our ability to generate strong volumes comes at a time when cardmembers are paying down their outstanding debt. This compares favorably to the major issuers who traditionally have had to rely on lending-oriented customers to generate billed business. At a time when so many consumers are focused on value, our relative strength also reflects the importance of pay-in-full charge cards and the appeal of our rewards, customer service and benefit programs.
To help build on our momentum, we increased marketing and promotion investments back to the pre-recessionary levels. We also made other substantial investments to further strengthen our competitive position as we come out of the recession.
 
Beyond those specific investments, we are carefully containing operating expenses not directly tied to growth initiatives.
Despite the progress we made this quarter, high unemployment levels and the uncertain legislative environment remain challenges to continued growth.
However, the global economy seems to be poised for continued improvement and our strong competitive position is yielding high quality comparative results.
 
Segment Results
reported first-quarter net income of $428 million compared with a loss of $7 million a year ago.
U.S. Card Services
 
 
Total revenues net of interest expense increased 14 percent to $3.5 billion, from $3.1 billion. The increase was the result of the consolidation of securitized cardmember loans and related debt onto the balance sheet in the first quarter. Revenues also reflect higher cardmember spending, offset by a smaller loan portfolio and lower yields on both the securitized and non-securitized portions of the portfolio.
4
Provisions for losses totaled $687 million, down 50 percent from $1.4 billion in the year-ago period. The decline reflected continued improvement in credit quality on the overall portfolio.
4
Total expenses increased 25 percent. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses increased 46 percent from the year-ago period, driven by higher rewards costs and increased investment spending on marketing initiatives. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased 2 percent from the year-ago quarter.
 
 
Refer to footnote 3 on page 2 for further details.
4
 
 
-3-
 
 
reported first-quarter net income of $151 million, up from $52 million a year ago.
International Card Services
Total revenues net of interest expense increased 9 percent to $1.1 billion, driven by increased cardmember spending.
Provisions for losses totaled $158 million, down 53 percent from $335 million a year ago, reflecting improved credit performance.
Total expenses increased 17 percent. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses increased 36 percent from year-ago levels, driven by higher rewards costs and increased marketing investments. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased 6 percent from the year-ago quarter.
reported first-quarter net income of $92 million, up from $81 million a year ago.
Global Commercial Services
Total revenues net of interest expense increased 9 percent to $1.0 billion, reflecting increased spending by corporate cardmembers and higher travel commissions and fees.
Provisions for losses totaled $78 million, up 66 percent from $47 million a year ago, reflecting higher volumes and an enhancement to the reserve methodology.
Total expenses increased 5 percent. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses increased 43 percent from the year-ago period, reflecting higher rewards costs and increased marketing investments. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased 1 percent from the year-ago quarter.
reported first-quarter net income of $267 million, up from $250 million a year ago.
Global Network & Merchant Services
 
 
Total revenues net of interest expense increased 16 percent to $997 million, reflecting higher merchant-related revenues from the rise in global card billed business, as well as an increase in revenues from Global Network Services bank partners.
Total expenses increased 29 percent. Marketing and promotion expenses increased 159 percent from year-ago levels, driven by increased brand and merchant-related marketing investments. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased 6 percent from the year-ago period.
reported a first-quarter net expense of $53 million, compared with a net income of $67 million last year, reflecting higher operating and liquidity expenses. The results for both periods reflected income of $220 million ($136 million after-tax) for the previously announced MasterCard and Visa settlements.
Corporate and Other
 
 
-4-
 
American Express is a global services company, providing customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success.  Learn more at www.americanexpress.com and connect with us on www.facebook.com/americanexpress, www.twitter.com/americanexpress and www.youtube.com/americanexpress.
The 2010 First Quarter Earnings Supplement will be available today on the American Express web site at . An investor conference call will be held at 5:00 p.m. (ET) today to discuss first-quarter earnings results. Live audio and presentation slides for the investor conference call will be available to the general public at the same web site.  A replay of the conference call will be available later today at the same web site address.
http://ir.americanexpress.com
INFORMATION RELATED TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are subject to risks and uncertainties.  The forward-looking statements, which address the companys expected business and financial performance, among other matters, contain words such as believe, expect, anticipate, optimistic, intend, plan, aim, will, may, should, could, would, likely, and similar expressions.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.  The company undertake s no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following:  the companys ability to exceed for 2010 its on-average, over-time earnings per share growth target of 12 percent to 15 percent per annum, which will depend on, among other things, the factors described below, including the level of consumer and business spending, credit trends, expense management, currency and interest rate fluctuations and general economic conditions, such as unemployment and GDP growth; the companys ability to manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans, merchants and other credit trends, which will depend in part on (i) the economic environment, including, among other things, the housing market, the rates of bankruptcies and unemployment, which can affect spending on card products, debt payments by individual and corporat e customers and businesses that accept the companys card products, (ii) the effectiveness of the companys credit models and (iii) the impact of recently enacted statutes and proposed legislative initiatives affecting the credit card business, including, without limitation, The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the CARD Act); the impact of the companys efforts to deal with delinquent cardmembers in the current challenging economic environment, which may affect payment patterns of cardmembers and the perception of the companys services, products and brands; the companys near-term write-off rates, including those for the second quarter of 2010, which will depend in part on changes in the level of the companys loan balances, delinquency rates of cardmembers, unemployment rates, the volume of bankruptcies and recoveries of previously written-off loans; consumer and business spending on the companys credit and charge card products and Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products and growth in card lending balances, which depend in part on the economic environment, and the ability to issue new and enhanced card and prepaid products, services and rewards programs, and increase revenues from such products, attract new cardmembers, reduce cardmember attrition, capture a greater share of existing cardmembers spending, and sustain premium discount rates on its card products in light of regulatory and market pressures, increase merchant coverage, retain cardmembers after low introductory lending rates have expired, and expand the Global Network Services business; the write-off and delinquency rates in the medium- to long-term of cardmembers added by the company during the past few years, which could impact their profitability to the company; the companys ability to effectively implement changes in the pricing of certain of its products and services; fluctuations in interest rates (including fluctuations in benchmarks, such as LIBOR and other benchmark rates that may give rise to basis risk, and credit spreads), which impact the companys borrowing costs, return on lending products and the value of the companys investments; the companys net interest yield on cardmember loans trending downward over time closer to historical levels, which will be impacted by the affects of the CARD Act and changes in consumer behavior
 
 
 
-5-
 
 
 
that affect loan balances; the actual amount to be spent by the company on marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services based on managements assessment of competitive opportunities and other factors affecting its judgment and during 2010, the extent of provision benefit, if any, from lower than expected write-offs; the ability to control and manage operating, infrastructure, advertising and promotion expenses as business expands or changes, including the ability to accurately estimate the provision for the cost of the Membership Rewards program; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the companys ability to grow its business and generate excess capital and earnings in a manner and at levels that will allow the company to return a portion of capital to shareholders, which will depend on the companys ability to manage its capital needs, and the effect of business mix, acquisitions and rating agency and regulatory requirements, including those arising from the companys status as a bank holding company; the ability of the company to meet its objectives with respect to the growth of its brokered retail CD program, brokerage sweep account program and the direct deposit initiative, which will depend in part on customer demand, the perception of the companys brand and regulatory capital requirements; the success of the Global Network Services business in partnering with banks in the United States, which will depend in part on the extent to which such business further enhances the companys brand, allows the company to leverage its significant processing scale, expands merchant coverage of the network, provides Global Network Services bank partners in the United States with the benefits of greater cardmember loyalty and higher spend per customer  and bene fits merchants through, among other things, greater transaction volume and additional higher spending customers; the ability of the Global Network Services business to meet the performance requirements called for by the companys settlements with MasterCard and Visa; trends in travel and entertainment spending and the overall level of consumer confidence; the uncertainties associated with business acquisitions, including, among others, the failure to realize anticipated business retention, growth and cost savings, as well as the ability to effectively integrate the acquired business into the companys existing operations; the success, timeliness and financial impact (including costs, cost savings, and other benefits, including increased revenues), and beneficial effect on the companys operating expense to revenue ratio, both in the short-term and over time, of reengineering initiatives being implemented or considered by the company, including cost management, structural and strategic measu res such as vendor, process, facilities and operations consolidation, outsourcing (including, among others, technologies operations), relocating certain functions to lower-cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the internet to save costs, and planned staff reductions relating to certain of such reengineering actions, including, the ability of the company to generate an annualized level of greater than $500 million of gross expense savings by 2012 from reengineering actions in its Global Services unit; the companys ability to reinvest the benefits arising from such reengineering actions in its businesses; bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations or similar events affecting the airline or any other industry representing a significant portion of the companys billed business, including any potential negative effect on particular card products and services and billed business generally that could result from the actual or perceived weakness of key business partners in such industries; the triggering of obligations to make payments to certain co-brand partners, merchants, vendors and customers under contractual arrangements with such parties under certain circumstances; a downturn in the companys businesses and/or negative changes in the companys and its subsidiaries credit ratings, which could result in contingent payments under contracts, decreased liquidity and higher borrowing costs; the ability of the company to satisfy its liquidity needs and execute on its funding plans, which will depend on, among other things, the companys future business growth, its credit ratings, market capacity and demand for securities offered by the company, performance by the companys counterparties under its bank credit facilities and other lending
 
 
 
-6-
 
 
facilities, regulatory changes, including changes to the policies, rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the companys ability to securitize and sell receivables and the performance of receivables previously sold in securitization transactions; accuracy of estimates for the fair value of the assets in the companys investment portfolio and, in particular, those investments that are not readily marketable; the ability of the companys charge card and lending trusts to maintain excess spreads at levels sufficient to avoid material set-asides or early amortization of the companys charge card and lending securitizations, which will depend on various factors such as income derived from the relevant portfolios and their respective credit performances; the increase in excess spread resulting from the designation of discount option receivables with respect to the American Express Credit Account Master Trust, which will depend in part on the monthly principal payment rate posted to accounts in, and the credit performance of, the securitized lending portfolio; the companys ability to invest in technology advances across all areas of its business to stay on the leading edge of technologies applicable to the payments industry; the companys ability to attract and retain executive management and other key employees; the companys ability to protect its intellectual property rights (IP) and avoid infringing the IP of other parties; the potential negative effect on the companys businesses and infrastructure, including information technology, of terrorist attacks, natural disasters, intrusion into our infrastructure by hackers or other catastrophic events in the future; political or econo mic instability in certain regions or countries, which could affect lending and other commercial activities, among other businesses, or restrictions on convertibility of certain currencies; changes in laws or government regulations; the administrations proposal to impose a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee at the rate of approximately 15 basis points on certain liabilities of banks, bank holding companies and other financial institutions with consolidated assets of at least $50 billion; the potential failure of the U.S. Congress to extend the active financing exception to Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code, which could increase the companys effective tax rate and have an adverse impact on net income; the potential impact of the CARD Act and regulations adopted by federal bank regulators relating to certain credit and charge card practices, including, among others, the imposition by card issuers of interest rate increases on outstanding balances and the allocation of payments in respect of outstanding balances with different interest rates, which could have an adverse impact on the companys net income; accounting changes, including the implementation of changes to the accounting for off-balance sheet activities or other potential regulatory interpretations in this area, which, effective January 1, 2010, required the company to consolidate the assets and liabilities of the lending securitization trust, thereby requiring the company to reestablish loss reserves, which has in turn resulted in a reduction to the companys regulatory capital ratios and has also resulted in a change with respect to the presentation of its financial statements beginning with the first quarter of 2010, and which also could result in lower credit ratings on securities issued by the companys off-balance sheet securitization trusts as a result of the uncertainty with respect to the ability of rating agencies to continue to rely on the FDICs safe harbor rule regarding the isolation of secu ritized assets in the event of a sponsoring banks receivership or conservatorship, which in turn could adversely impact the companys ability to utilize securitizations as a component of its funding strategy; outcomes and costs associated with litigation and compliance and regulatory matters; and competitive pressures in all of the companys major businesses.  A further description of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in the companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and the companys other reports filed with the SEC.
 
-7-
 
 
 
 
-8-
 
 
 
 
 
 
-9-
 
 
 
 
 
-10-
 
 
 
-11-
 

EXHIBIT 99.2 All information in the following tables is presented on a basis prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), unless otherwise indicated. On January 1, 2010, the Company consolidated its off- balance sheet cardmember loans and related debt onto its balance sheet in compliance with GAAP governing transfers of financial assets and consolidation of variable interest entities (new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010). Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, the consolidation of these assets and liabilities resulted in certain incremental income and expenses being reflected, as well as reclassifications of certain line items within the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income. The changes described above were made on a prospective basis; results for periods prior to 1Q'10 have not been restated. Refer to page 20 for additional discussion. Additionally, prior period amounts have been revised to reflect various other changes in financial and statistical reporting associated with changes in the Company's methodology for allocating items such as interest and capital across its reportable operating segments. (Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. (A) In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company no longer reports securitization income, net in its income statement. (B) Represents income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, less (i) preferred share dividends and related accretion of $72 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, and (ii) earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items of $12 million and $4 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 8
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Billions) 9
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (Millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. 10
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (CONTINUED) SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. (A) Refer to Appendix I for components of return on average equity, return on average common equity and return on average tangible common equity. 11
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Card billed business includes activities (including cash advances) related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. Card billed business is reflected in the United States or outside the United States based on where the cardmember is domiciled. (B) Total cards-in-force represents the number of cards that are issued and outstanding. Proprietary basic consumer cards-in-force includes basic cards issued to the primary account owner and does not include additional supplemental cards issued on that account. Proprietary basic small business and corporate cards-in-force include basic and supplemental cards issued to employee cardmembers. Non-proprietary basic cards-in-force includes all cards that are issued and outstanding under network partnership agreements. (C) This calculation is designed to reflect pricing at merchants accepting general purpose American Express cards. It represents the percentage of billed business (both proprietary and Global Network Services) retained by the Company from merchants it acquires, prior to payments to third parties unrelated to merchant acceptance. (D) Average basic cardmember spending and average fee per card are computed from proprietary card activities only. Average fee per card is computed based on net card fees, including the amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs, plus card fees included in interest and fees on loans (including related amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs), divided by average worldwide proprietary cards-in-force. The card fees related to cardmember loans included in interest and fees on loans were $51 million and $40 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The adjusted average fee per card is computed in the same manner, but excludes amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs (a portion of which is charge card related and included in net card fees and a portion of which is lending related and included in interest and fees on loans). The amount of amortization excluded was $51 million and $70 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company presents adjusted average fee per card because management believes that this metric presents a useful indicator of card fee pricing across a range of its proprietary card products. 12
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED) (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. (A) Effective January 1, 2010, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in International Card Services and Global Commercial Services are written off to when they are 180 days past due or earlier, consistent with applicable bank regulatory guidance and the write-off methodology adopted for U.S. Card Services in the fourth quarter of 2008. Previously, receivables were written off when they were 360 days past billing or earlier. Therefore, the net write-offs for the first quarter of 2010 include net write-offs of approximately $60 million for International Card Services and approximately $48 million for Global Commercial Services resulting from this write-off methodology change, which increased the net loss ratio and decreased the 90 days past billing metrics for these segments, but did not have a substantial impact on provisions for losses. If these amounts had been excluded from net write-offs, the combined net loss ratio for International Card Services/Global Commercial Services would have been 0.13%. (B) Beginning with the first quarter of 2010, the Company has revised the net loss ratio to exclude net write-offs related to unauthorized transactions, consistent with the methodology for calculation of the net write-off rate for U.S. Card Services. The metrics for prior periods have not been restated for this change as it was deemed immaterial. (C) For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, the Company's cardmember loans and related debt performance information on a GAAP basis was referred to as the "Owned" basis presentation. Under the GAAP basis presentation prior to a securitization, revenues and expenses from cardmember loans and related debt were reflected in the Company's income statements in other commissions and fees, net interest income and provisions for losses for cardmember loans. In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company's securitized portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt is consolidated on its balance sheet. (D) Reflects the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, which resulted in all securitization transactions being accounted for as secured borrowings by the Company. This adoption resulted in the consolidation of the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the Lending Trust), reflecting $29.0 billion of additional cardmember loans along with a $2.5 billion allowance for loan loss reserve on the Company's balance sheets. (E) See Appendix III for calculations of net interest yield on cardmember loans and the ratio of net interest income divided by average loans. The Company believes net interest yield on cardmember loans (on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis) is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of the Company's cardmember loans portfolio. (F) This calculation includes elements of total interest income and total interest expense that are not attributable to the cardmember loan portfolio, and thus is not representative of net interest yield on cardmember loans. The calculation includes interest income and interest expense attributable to investment securities and other interest-bearing deposits as well as to cardmember loans, and interest expense attributable to other activities, including cardmember receivables. (G) For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, total portfolio information is based on the Company's historical non-GAAP, or "Managed" basis presentation. For periods ending after January 1, 2010, total portfolio information is based on the Company's entire portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt determined in accordance with GAAP and is identical to the numbers provided in the GAAP basis portfolio above for such period. See page 20 for discussion of total portfolio information. 13
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Millions) (A) In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company no longer reports securitization income, net in its income statement. (B) Represents income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, less (i) accelerated preferred dividend accretion of $212 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 due to the repurchase of $3.39 billion of preferred shares issued as part of the Capital Purchase Program (CPP), (ii) preferred share dividends and related accretion of $22 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 and $72 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, and (iii) earnings allocated to participating share awards of $12 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, $9 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, $8 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, $1 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, and $4 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. 14
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (Millions) 15
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (CONTINUED) SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (A) Refer to Appendix I for components of return on average equity, return on average common equity and return on average tangible common equity. 16
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Card billed business includes activities (including cash advances) related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. Card billed business is reflected in the United States or outside the United States based on where the cardmember is domiciled. (B) Total cards-in-force represents the number of cards that are issued and outstanding. Proprietary basic consumer cards-in-force includes basic cards issued to the primary account owner and does not include additional supplemental cards issued on that account. Proprietary basic small business and corporate cards-in-force include basic and supplemental cards issued to employee cardmembers. Non-proprietary basic cards-in-force includes all cards that are issued and outstanding under network partnership agreements. (C) This calculation is designed to reflect pricing at merchants accepting general purpose American Express cards. It represents the percentage of billed business (both proprietary and Global Network Services) retained by the Company from merchants it acquires, prior to payments to third parties unrelated to merchant acceptance. (D) Average basic cardmember spending and average fee per card are computed from proprietary card activities only. Average fee per card is computed based on net card fees, including the amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs, plus card fees included in interest and fees on loans (including related amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs), divided by average worldwide proprietary cards-in-force. The card fees related to cardmember loans included in interest and fees on loans were $51 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, $54 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, $47 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, $45 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, and $40 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, respectively. The adjusted average fee per card is computed in the same manner, but excludes amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs (a portion of which is charge card related and included in net card fees and a portion of which is lending related and included in interest and fees on loans). The amount of amortization excluded for these periods was $51 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, $54 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, $57 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, $62 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, and $70 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. The Company presents adjusted average fee per card because management believes that this metric presents a useful indicator of card fee pricing across a range of its proprietary card products. 17
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED) (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Effective January 1, 2010, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in International Card Services and Global Commercial Services are written off to when they are 180 days past due or earlier, consistent with applicable bank regulatory guidance and the write-off methodology adopted for U.S. Card Services in the fourth quarter of 2008. Previously, receivables were written off when they were 360 days past billing or earlier. Therefore, the net write-offs for the first quarter of 2010 include net write-offs of approximately $60 million for International Card Services and approximately $48 million for Global Commercial Services resulting from this write-off methodology change, which increased the net loss ratio and decreased the 90 days past billing metrics for these segments, but did not have a substantial impact on provisions for losses. If these amounts had been excluded from net write-offs, the combined net loss ratio for International Card Services/Global Commercial Services would have been 0.13%. (B) Beginning with the first quarter of 2010, the Company has revised the net loss ratio to exclude net write-offs related to unauthorized transactions, consistent with the methodology for calculation of the net write-off rate for U.S. Card Services. The metrics for prior periods have not been restated for this change as it was deemed immaterial. (C) For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, the Company's cardmember loans and related debt performance information on a GAAP basis was referred to as the "Owned" basis presentation. Under the GAAP basis presentation prior to a securitization, revenues and expenses from cardmember loans and related debt were reflected in the Company's income statements in other commissions and fees, net interest income and provisions for losses for cardmember loans. In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company's securitized portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt is consolidated on its balance sheet. (D) Reflects the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, which resulted in all securitization transactions being accounted for as secured borrowings by the Company. This adoption resulted in the consolidation of the Lending Trust, reflecting $29.0 billion of additional cardmember loans along with a $2.5 billion allowance for loan loss reserve on the Company's balance sheets. (E) See Appendix III for calculations of net interest yield on cardmember loans and the ratio of net interest income divided by average loans. The Company believes net interest yield on cardmember loans (on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis) is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of the Company's cardmember loans portfolio. (F) This calculation includes elements of total interest income and total interest expense that are not attributable to the cardmember loan portfolio, and thus is not representative of net interest yield on cardmember loans. The calculation includes interest income and interest expense attributable to investment securities and other interest-bearing deposits as well as to cardmember loans, and interest expense attributable to other activities, including cardmember receivables. (G) For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, total portfolio information is based on the Company's historical non-GAAP, or "Managed" basis presentation. For periods ending after January 1, 2010, total portfolio information is based on the Company's entire portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt determined in accordance with GAAP and is identical to the numbers provided in the GAAP basis portfolio above for such period. See page 20 for discussion of total portfolio information. 18
(Preliminary) U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. (A) In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company no longer reports securitization income, net in its income statement. 19
(Preliminary) U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION TOTAL PORTFOLIO BASIS PRESENTATION The following table sets forth total portfolio financial information for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2009. The March 31, 2010 financial information was determined in accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010. The March 31, 2009 information includes the GAAP ("Owned") basis presentation, together with the adjustments for securitization activity to arrive at the non-GAAP Total Portfolio ("Managed") basis presentation. For additional information, please see "Total Portfolio Information" discussion below. (Millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. (A) In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company no longer reports securitization income, net in its income statement. (B) Includes provisions for losses for off-balance sheet cardmember loans based on the same methodology as applied to on-balance sheet cardmember loans, except that any quarterly adjustment to reserve levels for on-balance sheet loans to address external environmental factors was not applied to adjust the provision expense for the securitized portfolio. TOTAL PORTFOLIO INFORMATION In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company's securitized portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt is consolidated on its balance sheet. Going forward, the Company will present certain financial and statistical information relating to the performance of its business (or particular segments of its business, e.g., U.S. Card Services) based on its "total portfolio" of cardmember loans and related debt as follows: - - For periods ending after January 1, 2010, total portfolio information is based on the Company's entire portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt determined in accordance with GAAP; and - - For periods ending on or prior to December 31, 2009, total portfolio information is based on the Company's historical non-GAAP, or "managed" basis presentation. HISTORICAL PRESENTATION OF GAAP BASIS (PREVIOUSLY REFERRED TO AS "OWNED") VS. TOTAL PORTFOLIO BASIS (PREVIOUSLY REFERRED TO AS "MANAGED") For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, the Company's cardmember loan and related debt performance information on a GAAP basis were referred to as the "owned" basis presentation. For such periods, the Company also provided such information on a non-GAAP "managed" basis, which is now referred to as total portfolio basis. The total portfolio basis presentation assumed there had been no off-balance sheet securitizations for the Company's U.S. Card Services segment (the Company does not currently securitize its international cardmember loans), resulting in the inclusion of all securitized cardmember loans and related debt in the Company's total portfolio performance information. Under the GAAP basis presentation prior to a securitization, revenues and expenses from cardmember loans and related debt were reflected in the Company's income statements in other commissions and fees, net interest income and provisions for losses for cardmember loans. At the time of a securitization transaction, the securitized cardmember loans were removed from the Company's balance sheet, and the resulting gain on sale was reflected in securitization income, net, as well as a reduction to provisions for losses (credit reserves were no longer recorded for the cardmember loans once sold). Over the life of a securitization transaction, the Company recognized the net cash flow from interest and fee collections on interests sold to investors (the investors interests) after deducting interest paid on the investors' certificates, credit losses, contractual service fees, other expenses and changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip (referred to as "excess spread"). These amounts, in addition to servicing fees and the non-credit components of the gains/(losses) from securitization activities, were reflected in securitization income, net. The Company also recognized interest income over the life of the securitization transaction related to the interest it retained (i.e., the seller's interest). At the maturity of a securitization transaction, cardmember loans on the balance sheet increased, and the impact of the incremental required loss reserves was recorded in provisions for losses. Under the total portfolio basis presentation, revenues and expenses related to securitized cardmember loans and related debt are reflected in other commissions and fees (included in discount revenue, net card fees and other), interest income, interest expense and provisions for losses. In addition, there is no securitization income, net as this presentation assumes no securitization transactions have occurred. Historically, the Company included U.S. Card Services information on a total portfolio basis, as that was the manner in which the Company's management viewed and managed the business. Management believed that a full picture of trends in the Company's cardmember loans business could only be derived by evaluating the performance of both securitized and non-securitized cardmember loans, as the presentation of the entire cardmember loan portfolio was more representative of the economics of the aggregate cardmember relationships and ongoing business performance and related trends over time. The total portfolio basis presentation also provided investors a more comprehensive assessment of the information necessary for the Company and investors to evaluate the Company's market share. 20
(Preliminary) U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (B) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. (C) For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, the Company's cardmember loans and related debt performance information on a GAAP basis was referred to as the "Owned" basis presentation. Under the GAAP basis presentation prior to a securitization, revenues and expenses from cardmember loans and related debt were reflected in the Company's income statements in other commissions and fees, net interest income and provisions for losses for cardmember loans. In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company's securitized portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt is consolidated on its balance sheet. (D) See Appendix IV for calculations of net interest yield on cardmember loans and the ratio of net interest income divided by average loans. The Company believes net interest yield on cardmember loans (on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis) is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of the Company's cardmember loans portfolio. (E) For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, total portfolio information is based on the Company's historical non-GAAP, or "Managed" basis presentation. For periods ending after January 1, 2010, total portfolio information is based on the Company's entire portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt determined in accordance with GAAP and is identical to the numbers provided in the GAAP basis portfolio above for such period. See page 20 for discussion of total portfolio information. 21
(Preliminary) U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) (A) In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company no longer reports securitization income, net in its income statement. 22
(Preliminary) U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION TOTAL PORTFOLIO BASIS PRESENTATION The following table sets forth total portfolio financial information for the quarters ended March 31, 2010, December 31, 2009, September 30, 2009, June 30, 2009, and March 31, 2009. The March 31, 2010 financial information was determined in accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010. The December 31, 2009, September 30, 2009, June 30, 2009, and March 31, 2009 information includes the GAAP ("Owned") basis presentation, together with the adjustments for securitization activity to arrive at the non-GAAP ("Managed") basis presentation. For additional information, please see "Total Portfolio Information" discussion on page 20. (Millions) (A) In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company no longer reports securitization income, net in its income statement. (B) Includes provisions for losses for off-balance sheet cardmember loans based on the same methodology as applied to on-balance sheet cardmember loans, except that any quarterly adjustment to reserve levels for on-balance sheet loans to address external environmental factors was not applied to adjust the provision expense for the securitized portfolio. 23
(Preliminary) U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (B) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. (C) For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, the Company's cardmember loans and related debt performance information on a GAAP basis was referred to as the "Owned" basis presentation. Under the GAAP basis presentation prior to a securitization, revenues and expenses from cardmember loans and related debt were reflected in the Company's income statements in other commissions and fees, net interest income and provisions for losses for cardmember loans. In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company's securitized portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt is consolidated on its balance sheet. (D) See Appendix IV for calculations of net interest yield on cardmember loans and the ratio of net interest income divided by average loans. The Company believes net interest yield on cardmember loans (on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis) is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of the Company's cardmember loans portfolio. (E) For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, total portfolio information is based on the Company's historical non-GAAP, or "Managed" basis presentation. For periods ending after January 1, 2010, total portfolio information is based on the Company's entire portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt determined in accordance with GAAP and is identical to the numbers provided in the GAAP basis portfolio above for such period. See page 20 for discussion of total portfolio information. 24
(Preliminary) INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) # - Denotes variance of more than 100%. 25
(Preliminary) INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (B) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. (C) Effective January 1, 2010, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in International Card Services are written off to when they are 180 days past due or earlier, consistent with applicable bank regulatory guidance and the write-off methodology adopted for U.S. Card Services in the fourth quarter of 2008. Previously, receivables were written off when they were 360 days past billing or earlier. Therefore, the net write-offs for the first quarter of 2010 include net write-offs of approximately $60 million for International Card Services resulting from this write-off methodology change, which increased the net loss ratio and decreased the 90 days past billing metric for this segment, but did not have a substantial impact on provisions for losses. If this amount had been excluded from net write-offs, the net loss ratio for International Card Services would have been 0.17%. (D) Beginning with the first quarter of 2010, the Company has revised the net loss ratio to exclude net write-offs related to unauthorized transactions, consistent with the methodology for calculation of the net write-off rate for U.S. Card Services. The metrics for prior periods have not been restated for this change as it was deemed immaterial. (E) See Appendix IV for calculations of net interest yield on cardmember loans and the ratio of net interest income divided by average loans. The Company believes net interest yield on cardmember loans is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of the Company's cardmember loans portfolio. 26
(Preliminary) INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) 27
(Preliminary) INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (B) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. (C) Effective January 1, 2010, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in International Card Services are written off to when they are 180 days past due or earlier, consistent with applicable bank regulatory guidance and the write-off methodology adopted for U.S. Card Services in the fourth quarter of 2008. Previously, receivables were written off when they were 360 days past billing or earlier. Therefore, the net write-offs for the first quarter of 2010 include net write-offs of approximately $60 million for International Card Services resulting from this write-off methodology change, which increased the net loss ratio and decreased the 90 days past billing metric for this segment, but did not have a substantial impact on provisions for losses. If this amount had been excluded from net write-offs, the net loss ratio for International Card Services would have been 0.17%. (D) Beginning with the first quarter of 2010, the Company has revised the net loss ratio to exclude net write-offs related to unauthorized transactions, consistent with the methodology for calculation of the net write-off rate for U.S. Card Services. The metrics for prior periods have not been restated for this change as it was deemed immaterial. (E) See Appendix IV for calculations of net interest yield on cardmember loans and the ratio of net interest income divided by average loans. The Company believes net interest yield on cardmember loans is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of the Company's cardmember loans portfolio. 28
(Preliminary) GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) # - Denotes variance of more than 100%. 29
(Preliminary) GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (B) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. (C) Effective January 1, 2010, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in Global Commercial Services are written off to when they are 180 days past due or earlier, consistent with applicable bank regulatory guidance and the write-off methodology adopted for U.S. Card Services in the fourth quarter of 2008. Previously, receivables were written off when they were 360 days past billing or earlier. Therefore, the net write-offs for the first quarter of 2010 include net write-offs of approximately $48 million for Global Commercial Services resulting from this write-off methodology change, which increased the net loss ratio and decreased the 90 days past billing metric for this segment, but did not have a substantial impact on provisions for losses. If this amount had been excluded from net write-offs, the net loss ratio for Global Commercial Services would have been 0.11%. (D) Beginning with the first quarter of 2010, the Company has revised the net loss ratio to exclude net write-offs related to unauthorized transactions, consistent with the methodology for calculation of the net write-off rate for U.S. Card Services. The metrics for prior periods have not been restated for this change as it was deemed immaterial. 30
(Preliminary) GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) 31
(Preliminary) GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (B) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. (C) Effective January 1, 2010, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in Global Commercial Services are written off to when they are 180 days past due or earlier, consistent with applicable bank regulatory guidance and the write-off methodology adopted for U.S. Card Services in the fourth quarter of 2008. Previously, receivables were written off when they were 360 days past billing or earlier. Therefore, the net write-offs for the first quarter of 2010 include net write-offs of approximately $48 million for Global Commercial Services resulting from this write-off methodology change, which increased the net loss ratio and decreased the 90 days past billing metric for this segment, but did not have a substantial impact on provisions for losses. If this amount had been excluded from net write-offs, the net loss ratio for Global Commercial Services would have been 0.11%. (D) Beginning with the first quarter of 2010, the Company has revised the net loss ratio to exclude net write-offs related to unauthorized transactions, consistent with the methodology for calculation of the net write-off rate for U.S. Card Services. The metrics for prior periods have not been restated for this change as it was deemed immaterial. 32
(Preliminary) GLOBAL NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) # - Denotes variance of more than 100%. 33
(Preliminary) GLOBAL NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Global Card billed business includes activities (including cash advances) related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. (B) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (C) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. 34
(Preliminary) GLOBAL NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) 35
(Preliminary) GLOBAL NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Global Card billed business includes activities (including cash advances) related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. (B) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (C) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. 36
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY COMPONENTS OF RETURN ON AVERAGE EQUITY (ROE), RETURN ON AVERAGE COMMON EQUITY (ROCE), AND RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON EQUITY (ROTCE) APPENDIX I (Millions) (A) Return on average equity and return on average common equity are calculated by dividing one year period net income/net income attributable to common shareholders by one year average total shareholders' equity/average common shareholders' equity, respectively. (B) Return on average tangible common equity is computed in the same manner as return on average common equity except the computation of average tangible common shareholders' equity excludes average goodwill and other intangibles. The Company believes that return on average tangible common equity is a useful measure of the profitability of its business. 37
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY COMPONENTS OF RETURN ON AVERAGE SEGMENT CAPITAL (ROSC) AND RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE SEGMENT CAPITAL (ROTSC) APPENDIX II (A) (Millions) (A) Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, the Company changed the manner in which it allocates interest expense and capital to its reportable operating segments. The change reflects modifications in allocation methodology that the Company believes more accurately reflect funding and capital characteristics of its segments. The segment results, and accordingly, ROSC and ROTSC for periods prior to the first quarter of 2010 have been restated for this change. (B) Return on average segment capital is calculated by dividing one year period segment income by one year average segment capital. Return on average tangible segment capital is computed in the same manner as return on average segment capital except the computation of average tangible segment capital excludes average goodwill and other intangibles. The Company believes that return on average tangible segment capital is a useful measure of the profitability of its business. 38
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY NET INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER LOANS APPENDIX III (A) (Millions) (A) Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, the Company changed the manner in which it allocates interest expense and capital to its reportable operating segments. The change reflects modifications in allocation methodology that the Company believes more accurately reflect funding and capital characteristics of its segments. The change to interest allocation impacted the consolidated net interest yield on cardmember loans on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. Accordingly, the net interest yields for periods prior to the first quarter of 2010 have been restated for this change on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. (B) For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, the Company's cardmember loans and related debt performance information on a GAAP basis was referred to as the "Owned" basis presentation. Under the GAAP basis presentation prior to a securitization, revenues and expenses from cardmember loans and related debt were reflected in the Company's income statements in other commissions and fees, net interest income and provisions for losses for cardmember loans. In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company's securitized portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt is consolidated on its balance sheet. (C) Represents net interest income allocated to the Company's cardmember loans portfolio on a GAAP or non-GAAP basis, as applicable, excluding the impact of card fees on loans and balance transfer fees attributable to the Company's cardmember loans on a GAAP or non-GAAP basis, as applicable. (D) Represents average cardmember loans on a GAAP or non-GAAP basis, as applicable, excluding the impact of deferred card fees, net of deferred direct acquisition costs of cardmember loans on a GAAP or non-GAAP basis, as applicable. (E) Represents the net spread earned on cardmember loans. Net interest yield on cardmember loans (both on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis) is computed by dividing adjusted net interest income by adjusted average loans, computed on an annualized basis. The calculation of net interest yield on cardmember loans (both on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis) includes interest that is deemed uncollectible. For the GAAP and non-GAAP presentation, reserves and net write-offs related to uncollectible interest are recorded through provisions for losses - cardmember loans; therefore, such reserves and net write-offs are not included in the net interest yield calculation. (F) For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, total portfolio information is based on the Company's historical non-GAAP, or "Managed" basis presentation. For periods ending after January 1, 2010, total portfolio information is based on the Company's entire portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt determined in accordance with GAAP and is identical to the numbers provided in the GAAP basis portfolio above for such period. See page 20 for discussion of total portfolio information. (G) For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, the total portfolio information presented includes the adjustments to the GAAP "owned basis" presentation for such periods attributable to securitization activity for interest income and interest expense to arrive at the non-GAAP "managed basis" information, which adjustments are set forth under the U.S. Card Services total portfolio presentation on page 23. 39
(Preliminary) U. S. CARD SERVICES AND INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES NET INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER LOANS APPENDIX IV (A) (Millions) (A) Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, the Company changed the manner in which it allocates interest expense and capital to its reportable operating segments. The change reflects modifications in allocation methodology that the Company believes more accurately reflect funding and capital characteristics of its segments. The change to interest allocation impacted the segment net interest yield on cardmember loans on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. Accordingly, the net interest yields for periods prior to the first quarter of 2010 have been restated for this change on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. (B) For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, the Company's cardmember loans and related debt performance information on a GAAP basis was referred to as the "Owned" basis presentation. Under the GAAP basis presentation prior to a securitization, revenues and expenses from cardmember loans and related debt were reflected in the Company's income statements in other commissions and fees, net interest income and provisions for losses for cardmember loans. In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company's securitized portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt is consolidated on its balance sheet. (C) Represents net interest income allocated to the Company's cardmember loans portfolio on a GAAP or non-GAAP basis, as applicable, excluding the impact of card fees on loans and balance transfer fees attributable to the Company's cardmember loans on a GAAP or non-GAAP basis, as applicable. (D) Represents average cardmember loans on a GAAP or non-GAAP basis, as applicable, excluding the impact of deferred card fees, net of deferred direct acquisition costs of cardmember loans on a GAAP or non-GAAP basis, as applicable. (E) Represents the net spread earned on cardmember loans. Net interest yield on cardmember loans (both on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis) is computed by dividing adjusted net interest income by adjusted average loans, computed on an annualized basis. The calculation of net interest yield on cardmember loans (both on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis) includes interest that is deemed uncollectible. For the GAAP and non-GAAP presentation, reserves and net write-offs related to uncollectible interest are recorded through provisions for losses - cardmember loans; therefore, such reserves and net write-offs are not included in the net interest yield calculation. (F) For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, total portfolio information is based on the Company's historical non-GAAP, or "Managed" basis presentation. For periods ending after January 1, 2010, total portfolio information is based on the Company's entire portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt determined in accordance with GAAP and is identical to the numbers provided in the GAAP basis portfolio above for such period. See page 20 for discussion of total portfolio information. (G) For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, the total portfolio information presented includes the adjustments to the GAAP "owned basis" presentation for such periods attributable to securitization activity for interest income and interest expense to arrive at the non-GAAP "managed basis" information, which adjustments are set forth under the U.S. Card Services total portfolio presentation on page 23. 40

EXHIBIT 99.3
The enclosed summary should be read in conjunction with the text and statistical tables included in American Express Companys (the Company or AXP) First Quarter 2010 Earnings Release.
 
 
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS
ADOPTION OF GAAP GOVERNING TRANSFERS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS & RELATED IMPACT
 
 
 
In addition, the Company has historically provided an owned basis and managed basis presentation of certain key loan metrics where owned basis metrics were prepared in accordance with GAAP and managed basis metrics included both non-securitized and securitized loan portfolios.  Please see the Total Portfolio discussion on pages 16-17 for a further description of currently reported metrics.
BUSINESS METRICS
 
 
 
 
-1-
 
 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
-2-
 
 
CAPITAL
 
-
 
:
Shares Outstanding
 
 
-3-
 
FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-4-
 
 
 
 
 
OTHER ITEMS OF NOTE
 
 
-5-
 
 
 
Despite improved business performance, the Company continues to identify new reengineering opportunities.  In 1Q10, income from continuing operations reflects $16MM ($11MM after-tax) of net reengineering costs, primarily in the GCS segment.
 
 
EXPANDED PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-6-
 
 
In the GNS business the Company:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-7-
 
 
__________________________
#   Denotes a variance of more than 100%.
    In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company no longer reports securitization income, net in its income statement.
*
 
     Represents income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, less (i) preferred share dividends and related accretion of $72MM for 1Q09 and (ii) earnings allocated to p
  **
articipating share awards and other items of $12MM and $4MM for 1Q10 and 1Q09, respectively.
 
 
 
-8-
 
 
___________________________________________________
  
 
 
 
-9-
 
 
______________________________________
 
 
  For additional information about billed business, please refer to the First Quarter 2010 Earnings Release, American Express Company Selected Statistical Information pages.
*
 
  Proprietary card activity only.
  **
 
 Captions not designated as proprietary or GNS include both proprietary and GNS data.
***
  Included in USCS.
    
     
  Included in GCS.
   
  Included in ICS.
 
-10-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
____________________________________
 
  Excess spread, net is the net cash flow from interest and fee collections allocated to the investors interests after deducting the interest paid on investor certificates, credit losses, contractual servicing fees, other expenses and changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip (I/O Strip).
*
 
  
**
 
Excludes ($93MM) of impact from cardmember loan maturities which is reflected in provisions for cardmember loan losses.
 
 
-11-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 _________________________________________________
 
 
 
 
 
-12-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All loan statistics are presented here on a GAAP basis.  Total Portfolio basis credit quality statistics for 1Q10 are the same as GAAP basis.  For prior periods, Total Portfolio basis credit quality statistics are available in the First Quarter 2010 Earnings Release, American Express Company Consolidated Selected Statistical Information pages.
*
 
-13-
 
Supplemental Information  Tangible Common Equity and Total Adjusted Assets
During the third quarter of 2006, the Company issued $750MM of 6.80% Subordinated Debentures due 2036 (Subordinated Debentures), which are automatically extendable until 2066 unless certain events occur prior to that date. In connection with the Subordinated Debentures, the Company has undertaken to disclose on a quarterly basis the amount of its tangible common equity and total adjusted assets, as defined in the Subordinated Debentures.  The Companys consolidated tangible common equity amount as of the end of any fiscal quarter means the total shareholders equity, excluding preferred stock, of the Company as reflected on its consolidated balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such fiscal quarter end minus (i) intangible assets and goodwill an d (ii) deferred acquisition costs, as determined in accordance with GAAP and reflected in such consolidated balance sheet.  The Companys total adjusted assets as of the end of any fiscal quarter is calculated as the sum of (i) total consolidated assets as reflected on the Companys balance sheet minus (ii) non-securitized Cardmember loan receivables (without deduction for reserves), which are set forth on the Companys balance sheet, plus (iii) total (i.e., securitized and non-securitized-which the Company formerly referred to as the managed basis presentation) worldwide Cardmember loan receivables as reported by the Company for such fiscal quarter.  Upon the adoption of a change in GAAP governing transfers of financial assets beginning January 1, 2010, the Companys total consolidated assets as reflected on the Companys balance sheet now are the same amount as would be calculated as total adjusted assetsR 21; as defined in the Subordinated Debentures before the change in GAAP.  As of March 31, 2010, the Companys tangible common equity was $10B and its total adjusted assets as defined in the Subordinated Debentures, were $143B.  As of March 31, 2010, the consolidated assets as reflected on the Companys balance sheet were also $143B.
 
 
 
 
-14-
 
 
# Denotes a variance of more than 100%.
P&L Discussion:
 
 
 
 
 
-15-
 
Total Portfolio Information
Beginning January 1, 2010, the Companys securitized portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt is consolidated on its balance sheet in accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010.  Going forward, the Company will present certain financial and statistical information relating to the performance of its business (or particular segments of its business, e.g., USCS) based on its total portfolio of cardmember loans and related debt as follows:
 
:
Historical Presentation of GAAP Basis (previously referred to as Owned) vs. Total Portfolio Basis (previously referred to as Managed)
 
 
For periods ended on or prior to December 31, 2009, the Companys cardmember loan and related debt performance information on a GAAP basis were referred to as the owned basis presentation. For such periods, the Company also provided such information on a non-GAAP managed basis, which is now referred to as total portfolio basis.  The total portfolio basis presentation assumed there had been no off-balance sheet securitizations for the Companys USCS segment (the Company does not currently securitize its international cardmember loans), resulting in the inclusion of all securitized cardmember loans and related debt in the Companys Total Portfolio performance information.
Under the GAAP basis presentation prior to a securitization, revenues and expenses from cardmember loans and related debt were reflected in the Companys income statements in other commissions and fees, net interest income and provisions for losses for cardmember loans.  At the time of a securitization transaction, the securitized cardmember loans were removed from the Companys balance sheet, and the resulting gain on sale was reflected in securitization income, net, as well as a reduction to the provisions for losses (credit reserves were no longer recorded for the cardmember loans once sold).  Over the life of a securitization transaction, the Company recognized the net cash flow from interest and fee collections on interests sold to investors (the investors interests) after deducting interest paid on the investors certificates, credit losses, contractual service fees, other expenses and changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip (referred to as excess spread).  These amounts, in addition to servicing fees and the non-credit components of the gains/(losses) from securitization activities were reflected in securitization income, net.  The Company also recognized interest income over the life of the securitization transaction related to the interest it retained (i.e., the sellers interest).  At the maturity of a securitization transaction, cardmember loans on the balance sheet increased, and the impact of the incremental required loss reserves was recorded in provisions for losses.
Under the total portfolio basis presentation, revenues and expenses related to securitized cardmember loans and related debt are reflected in other commissions and fees (included in discount revenue, net card fees and other), interest income, interest expense and provisions for losses.   In addition, there is no securitization income, net as this presentation assumes no securitization transactions have occurred.
Historically, the Company included USCS information on a total portfolio basis, as that was the manner in which the Companys management viewed and managed the business.  Management believed that a full picture of trends in the Companys cardmember loans business could only be derived by evaluating the performance of both securitized and non-securitized cardmember loans, as the presentation of the entire cardmember loan portfolio was more representative of the economics of the aggregate cardmember relationships and ongoing business performance and related trends over time.  The total portfolio basis presentation also provided investors a more comprehensive assessment of the information necessary for the Company and investors to evaluate the Companys market share.
For additional information on the differences between the Companys historical GAAP (owned) and total portfolio (managed) basis presentations, see the Companys 2009 Financial Review included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2009.
 
-16-
 
The following table sets forth total portfolio financial information for 1Q10 and 1Q09.  The 1Q10 financial information was determined in accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010.  The 1Q09 information includes the GAAP (owned) basis presentation, together with the adjustments for securitization activity to arrive at the non-GAAP total portfolio (managed) basis presentation.  For additional information, please see the total portfolio discussion on page 17.
 
 
 
 
 
*
 
In accordance with the new GAAP adopted effective January 1, 2010, the Company no longer reports securitization income, net in its income statement.
 
**
 
 
Includes provisions for losses for off-balance sheet cardmember loans based on the same methodology as applied to on-balance sheet cardmember loans, except that any quarterly adjustment to reserve levels for on-balance sheet loans to address external environmental factors was not applied to adjust the provision expense for the securitized portfolio.
 
 
Proprietary cards only.
*
 
Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. Please refer to Appendix II of the First Quarter 2010 Earnings Release for the components of ROSC and ROTSC.
**
 
-17-
 
 
# Denotes a variance of more than 100%.
P&L Discussion
 
  
 
Effective January 1, 2010, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in ICS are written off to when they are 180 days past due or earlier, consistent with applicable bank regulatory guidance and the write-off methodology adopted for USCS in 4Q08. Previously, receivables were written off when they were 360 days past billing or earlier. Therefore, net write-offs for 1Q10 include net write-offs of approximately $60MM for ICS resulting from this write-off methodology change, which increased the net loss ratio and decreased the 90 days past billing metric for this segment, but did not have a substantial impact on provisions for losses.  If this amount had been excluded from net write-offs, the ICS ne t loss ratio would have been 0.17%.
**
 
   Beginning with 1Q10, the Company has revised the net loss ratio to exclude net write-offs related to unauthorized transactions, consistent with the  methodology for calculation of the net write-off rate for USCS. The metrics for prior periods have not been restated for this change, as it was deemed immaterial.
 
-18-
 
P&L Discussion
 
  Proprietary cards only.
*
 
Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. Please refer to Appendix II of the First Quarter 2010 Earnings Release for the components of ROSC and ROTSC.
**
 
 
-19-
 
# Denotes a variance of more than 100%.
P&L Discussion
 
 
 
Effective January 1, 2010, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in GCS are written off to when they are 180 days past due or earlier, consistent with applicable bank regulatory guidance and the write-off methodology adopted for USCS in 4Q08. Previously, receivables were written off when they were 360 days past billing or earlier. Therefore, the net write-offs for 1Q10 include net write-offs of approximately $48MM for GCS resulting from this write-off methodology change, which increased the net loss ratio and decreased the 90 days past billing metric for this segment, but did not have a substantial impact on provisions for losses. If this amount had been excluded from net write-offs, the GCS net loss ratio would have been 0.11%.
**
 
Beginning with 1Q10, the Company has revised the net loss ratio to exclude write-offs related to unauthorized transactions, consistent with the methodology for calculation of the net write-off rate for USCS. The metrics for prior periods have not been restated for this change, as it was deemed immaterial.
 
-20-
 
 
 
 
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are subject to risks and uncertainties.  The forward-looking statements, which address the Companys expected business and financial performance, among other matters, contain words such as believe, expect, anticipate, optimistic, intend, plan, aim, will, may, should, could, would, likely, and similar expressions.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.  The Company underta kes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following:  the Companys ability to exceed for 2010 its on-average, over-time earnings per share growth target of 12 percent to 15 percent per annum, which will depend on, among other things, the factors described below, including the level of consumer and business spending, credit trends, expense management, currency and interest rate fluctuations and general economic conditions, such as unemployment and GDP growth; the Companys ability to manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans, merchants and other credit trends, which will depend in part on (i) the economic environment, including, among other things, the housing market, the rates of bankruptcies and unemployment, which can affect spending on card products, debt payments by individual and corpor ate customers and businesses that accept the Companys card products, (ii) the effectiveness of the Companys credit models and (iii) the impact of recently enacted statutes and proposed legislative initiatives affecting the credit card business, including, without limitation, The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the CARD Act); the impact of the Companys efforts to deal with delinquent cardmembers in the current challenging economic environment, which may affect payment patterns of cardmembers and the perception of the Companys services, products and brands; the Companys near-term write-off rates, including those for the second quarter of 2010, which will depend in part on changes in the level of the Companys loan balances, delinquency rates of cardmembers, unemployment rates, the volume of bankruptcies and recoveries of previously written-off loans; consumer and business spending on the Companys credi t and charge card products and Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products and growth in card lending balances, which depend in part on the economic environment, and the ability to issue new and enhanced card and prepaid products, services and rewards programs, and increase revenues from such products, attract new cardmembers, reduce cardmember attrition, capture a greater share of existing cardmembers spending, and sustain premium discount rates on its card products in light of regulatory and market pressures, increase merchant coverage, retain cardmembers after low introductory lending rates have expired, and expand the Global Network Services business; the write-off and delinquency rates in the medium- to long-term of cardmembers added by the Company during the past few years, which could impact their profitability to the Company; the Companys ability to effectively implement changes in the pricing of certain of its products and services; fluctuations in interest rates (including fluctuatio ns in benchmarks, such as LIBOR and other benchmark rates that may give rise to basis risk, and credit spreads), which impact the Companys borrowing costs, return on lending products and the value of the Companys investments; the Companys net interest yield on cardmember loans trending downward over time closer to historical levels, which will be impacted by the affects of the CARD Act and changes in consumer behavior that affect loan balances; the actual amount to be spent by the Company on marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services based on managements assessment of competitive opportunities and other factors affecting its judgment and during 2010, the extent of provision benefit, if any, from lower than expected write-offs; the ability to control and manage operating, infrastructure, advertising and promotion expenses as business expands or changes, including the ability to accurately estimate the provision for the cost of the Membership Rewards program; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the Companys ability to grow its business and generate excess capital and earnings in a manner and at levels that will allow the Company to return a portion of capital to shareholders, which will depend on the Companys ability to manage its capital needs, and the effect of business mix, acquisitions and rating agency and regulatory requirements, including those arising from the Companys status as a bank holding company; the ability of the Company to meet its objectives with respect to the growth of its brokered retail CD program, brokerage sweep account program and the direct deposit initiative, which will depend in part on customer demand, the perception of the Companys brand and regulatory capital requirements; the success of the Global Network Services business in partnering with banks in the United States, which will depend in part on the extent to which such business further enhances the Companys brand, allows the Company to leverag e its significant processing scale, expands merchant coverage of the network, provides Global Network Services bank partners in the United States with the benefits of greater cardmember loyalty and higher spend per customer  and benefits merchants through, among other things, greater transaction volume and additional higher spending customers; the ability of the Global Network Services business to meet the performance requirements called for by the Companys settlements with MasterCard and Visa; trends in travel and entertainment spending and the overall level of consumer confidence; the uncertainties associated with business acquisitions, including, among others, the failure to realize anticipated business retention, growth and cost savings, as well as the ability to effectively integrate the acquired business into the Companys existing operations; the success, timeliness and financial impact (including costs, cost savings, and other benefits, including increased revenues), and beneficial effect on the Companys operating expense to revenue ratio, both in the short-term and over time, of reengineering initiatives being implemented or considered by the Company, including cost management, structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities and operations consolidation, outsourcing (including, among others, technologies operations), relocating certain functions to lower-cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the internet to save costs, and planned staff reductions relating to certain of such reengineering actions, including, the ability of the Company to generate an annualized level of greater than $500 million of gross expense savings by 2012 from reengineering actions in its Global Services unit; the Companys ability to reinvest the benefits arising from such reengineering actions in its businesses; bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations or similar events affecting the airline or any other industry representing a sign ificant portion of the Companys billed business, including any potential negative effect on particular card products and services and billed business generally that could result from the actual or perceived weakness of key business partners in such industries; the triggering of obligations to make payments to certain co-brand partners, merchants, vendors and customers under contractual arrangements with such parties under certain circumstances; a downturn in the Companys businesses and/or negative changes in the Companys and its subsidiaries credit ratings, which could result in contingent payments under contracts, decreased liquidity and higher borrowing costs; the ability of the Company to satisfy its liquidity needs and execute on its funding plans, which will depend on, among other things, the Companys future business growth, its credit ratings, market capacity and demand for securities offered by the Company, performance by the Companys counterparties under its bank credit facilities and other lending facilities, regulatory changes, including changes to the policies, rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the Companys ability to securitize and sell receivables and the performance of receivables previously sold in securitization transactions; accuracy of estimates for the fair value of the assets in the Companys investment portfolio and, in particular, those investments that are not readily marketable; the ability of the Companys charge card and lending trusts to maintain excess spreads at levels sufficient to avoid material set-asides or early amortization of the Companys charge card and lending securitizations, which will depend on various factors such as income derived from the relevant portfolios and their respective credit performances; the increase in excess spread resulting from the designation of discount option receivables with respect to the Am erican Express Credit Account Master Trust, which will depend in part on the monthly principal payment rate posted to accounts in, and the credit performance of, the securitized lending portfolio; the Companys ability to invest in technology advances across all areas of its business to stay on the leading edge of technologies applicable to the payments industry; the Companys ability to attract and retain executive management and other key employees; the Companys ability to protect its intellectual property rights (IP) and avoid infringing the IP of other parties; the potential negative effect on the Companys businesses and infrastructure, including information technology, of terrorist attacks, natural disasters, intrusion into our infrastructure by hackers or other catastrophic events in the future; political or economic instability in certain regions or countries, which could affect lending and other commercial activities, among other businesses, or restrictions on convertibility of certain currencies; changes in laws or government regulations; the administrations proposal to impose a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee at the rate of approximately 15 basis points on certain liabilities of banks, bank holding companies and other financial institutions with consolidated assets of at least $50 billion; the potential failure of the U.S. Congress to extend the active financing exception to Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code, which could increase the Companys effective tax rate and have an adverse impact on net income; the potential impact of the CARD Act and regulations adopted by federal bank regulators relating to certain credit and charge card practices, including, among others, the imposition by card issuers of interest rate increases on outstanding balances and the allocation of payments in respect of outstanding balances with different interest rates, which could have an adverse impact on the Companys net income; accounting changes, including the implementation of changes to the accounting for off-balance sheet activities or other potential regulatory interpretations in this area, which, effective January 1, 2010, required the Company to consolidate the assets and liabilities of the lending securitization trust, thereby requiring the Company to reestablish loss reserves, which has in turn resulted in a reduction to the Companys regulatory capital ratios and has also resulted in a change with respect to the presentation of its financial statements beginning with the first quarter of 2010, and which also could result in lower credit ratings on securities issued by the Companys off-balance sheet securitization trusts as a result of the uncertainty with respect to the ability of rating agencies to continue to rely on the FDICs safe harbor rule regarding the isolation of securitized assets in the event of a sponsoring banks receivership or conservatorship, which in turn could adversely impact the Companys abili ty to utilize securitizations as a component of its funding strategy; outcomes and costs associated with litigation and compliance and regulatory matters; and competitive pressures in all of the Companys major businesses.  A further description of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and the Companys other reports filed with the SEC.
 
-21-
 


