FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20100121160804.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02   Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01 Regulation
FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished under Item 2.02 - Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01 - Regulation FD Disclosure:
On January 21, 2010, American Express Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2009. A copy of such press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated herein by reference. In addition, in conjunction with the announcement of its financial results, American Express Company distributed additional financial information relating to its 2009 fourth quarter and full year financial results and a 2009 Fourth Quarter/Full Year Earnings Supplement. Such additional financial information and the 2009 Fourth Quarter/Full Year Earnings Supplement are attached to this report as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3, respectively, and each is hereby incorporated by reference.
EXHIBIT
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  January 21, 2010
 
 
 
Exhibit
No.           Description
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
FINAL
 
# Denotes a variance of more than 100%.
___________________________
Represents income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, less:
1
 
 
 
1
 
New York  January 21, 2010 -today reported fourth-quarter income from continuing operations of $710 million, up 132 percent from $306 million a year ago. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.59, up 127 percent from $0.26 a year ago.
American Express Company (NYSE: AXP)
Net income totaled $716 million for the quarter, up 198 percent from $240 million a year ago. Diluted per-share net income of $0.60 was up 186 percent from $0.21 a year ago.
 
Consolidated revenues net of interest expense were $6.5 billion, on par with the year-ago quarter.
Consolidated provisions for losses totaled $748 million, down 47 percent compared to $1.4 billion in the year-ago period. The decline reflected continued improvement in credit quality during the latter part of 2009.
Consolidated expenses totaled $4.8 billion, on par with the year- ago quarter. This quarters results reflected higher investment in business building initiatives and the benefits of the companys reengineering initiatives.  The year-ago quarter included a significant reengineering charge.
The company's return on average equity (ROE) was 14.6 percent, down from 22.3 percent a year ago.
We ended the year on a positive note with cardmember spending up 8 percent and credit indicators showing further signs of improvement, said Kenneth I. Chenault, chairman and chief executive officer.
Fourth quarter results reflected the diversity of our business model that includes issuing cards, building business for merchants, operating a global payments network and delivering high-value services to our customers. Earnings were well above the depressed levels of 2008, capping a year when we delivered on each of our three main priorities.  We stayed consistently profitable, built a more liquid funding base and invested selectively in the business.
This progress, and the underlying strength of our franchise allowed us to maintain our dividend at a time when many others cut or eliminated their quarterly payment to shareholders.
 
2
 
We still face the challenge of high unemployment levels, depressed real estate values, and shrunken household balance sheets, but the overall economy and our company are in stronger shape than they were a year ago.
While the economic recovery now underway is likely to be modest, we expect it to continue and have begun to shift our focus to growing American Express for the longer term.
 
We aim to extend our payments business, offer new fee based services, and accelerate our progress in the world of emerging payments. At the same time, we will focus on creating a more efficient cost structure and delivering superior service that strengthens our relationships with cardmembers, merchants and business partners. We continue to see opportunities to extend our market leadership and distinguish American Express from its competitors.
 
During the fourth quarter, non-U.S. revenues, provisions and expenses were higher due to the translation effects of a comparatively weaker U.S. dollar.
Significant items in the year-ago fourth quarter included:
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations for the fourth quarter generated a gain of $6 million compared with a loss of $66 million during the year-ago period, which primarily reflected mark-to-market adjustments within the American Express International Deposit Company investment portfolio.
 
3
 
Segment Results
reported fourth-quarter net income of $365 million, up from $64 million a year ago.
U.S. Card Services
 
Total revenues net of interest expense for the fourth quarter decreased 4 percent to $3.1 billion, driven by lower commissions and fees, as well as lower net card fees, partially offset by slightly higher discount revenue.
Provisions for losses totaled $346 million compared to $1.1 billion in the year-ago period. The provision for the current quarter reflected lower loan volumes and improvements in charge card and lending credit trends. On a managed basis the net loan write-off rate was 7.5%, down from 8.9% in the third quarter and up from 6.7% a year ago. Owned net write-offs were 8.0% in the quarter, down from 9.8% in the third quarter and up from 7.0% a year ago.
1
Total expenses increased 3 percent. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses increased 8 percent from the year-ago period, driven by higher investment spending on  marketing initiatives and higher rewards costs. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses decreased 3 percent from the year-ago quarter, which included a reengineering charge.
reported fourth-quarter net income of $73 million, up from $36 million a year ago.
International Card Services
Total revenues net of interest expense increased 11 percent to $1.2 billion, driven by increased cardmember spending, increased net interest income and higher net card fees.
Provisions for losses rose 33 percent to $324 million from $243 million a year ago, reflecting higher reserve levels.
Total expenses decreased 5 percent. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses increased 23 percent from year-ago levels, driven by increased marketing investments and higher volume-related rewards costs. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses decreased 19 percent from the year-ago quarter, which included a reengineering charge.
 
____________________________
Please refer to the information set forth on Exhibit I for further discussion of the owned and managed basis presentations.
1
 
 
4
 
reported fourth-quarter net income of $117 million compared to a net loss of $7 million a year ago.
Global Commercial Services
Total revenues net of interest expense increased 6 percent to $1.1 billion, reflecting increased spending by corporate cardmembers.
Provisions for losses totaled $37 million, down 46 percent from $69 million a year ago.
Total expenses decreased 12 percent. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses increased 24 percent from the year-ago period, reflecting higher rewards costs. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses decreased 15 percent from the year-ago quarter, which included a higher reengineering charge.
reported fourth-quarter net income of $185 million, down from $215 million a year ago.
Global Network & Merchant Services
 
Total revenues net of interest expense increased 7 percent to $1 billion, reflecting higher merchant-related revenues, as well as an increase in revenues from Global Network Services bank partners.
Total expenses increased 11 percent, driven by increased brand and merchant-related marketing investments. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses decreased 4 percent from the year-ago period, which included a higher reengineering charge.
reported a fourth-quarter net expense of $30 million, compared with a net expense of $2 million last year. The results for both periods reflected income of $220 million ($136 million after-tax) for the previously announced MasterCard and Visa settlements. This quarter reflected in part a $63 million real estate expense related to certain lease exit costs and the impact of higher interest expense. The year-ago quarter included a reengineering charge.
Corporate and Other
American Express Company is a leading global payments and travel company founded in 1850.  For more information, visit .
www.americanexpress.com
 
The 2009 Fourth Quarter Earnings Supplement will be available today on the American Express web site at . An investor conference call will be held at 5:00 p.m. (ET) today to discuss fourth-quarter earnings results. Live audio and presentation slides for the investor conference call will be available to the general public at the same web site.  A replay of the conference call will be available later today at the same web site address.
http://ir.americanexpress.com
 
5
 
EXHIBIT I
(Billions, except percentages)
(A) "Owned," a GAAP basis measurement, reflects only cardmember loans included in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
(B) Loan balances for all periods presented used to calculate average loans have been revised in connection with the Company's conversion to a bank holding company.  Specifically, deferred card fees net of deferred direct acquisition costs for cardmember loans were reclassified from other liabilities to cardmember loans for all periods.
(C) The managed basis presentation assumes that there have been no off-balance sheet securitization transactions, i.e., all securitized cardmember loans and related income effects are reflected as if they were in the Company's balance sheets and income statements, respectively.  The difference between the "owned basis" (GAAP) information and "managed basis" information is attributable to the effects of securitization activities.  The Company presents U.S. Card Services information on a managed basis because that is the way the Company's management views and manages the business. Management believes that a full picture of trends in the Company's cardmember lending business can only be derived by evaluating the performance of both securitized and non-securitized cardmember loans. Management also believes that use of a managed basis presentation presents a more comprehensive portrayal of the key dynamics of the cardmember lending business. Irrespective of the on and off-balance sheet funding mix, it is important for management and investors to see metrics for the entire cardmember lending portfolio because they are more representative of the economics of the aggregate cardmember relationships and ongoing business performance and trends over time. It is also important for investors to see the overall growth of cardmember loans and related revenue in order to evaluate market share. These metrics are significant in evaluating the Company's performance and can only be properly assessed when all non-securitized and securitized cardmember loans are viewed together on a managed basis. The Company does not currently securitize international loans.
 
6
 
INFORMATION RELATED TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements, which address the Companys expected business and financial performance, among other matters, contain words such as believe, expect, anticipate, optimistic, intend, plan, aim, will, may, should, could, would, likely, and similar expressions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: the Companys ability to manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans, merchants and other credit trends, which will depend in part on (i) the economic environment, including, among other things, the housing market, the rates of bankruptcies and unemployment, which can affect spending on card products, debt payments by individual and corporate customers and businesses that accept the Companys card products, (ii) the effectiveness of the Companys credit models and (iii) the impact of recently enacted statutes and proposed legislative initiatives affecting the credit card business, including, without limitation, The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009; the impact of the Companys efforts to deal with delinquent cardmembers in the current challenging economic environment, which may affect payment patterns of cardmembers and the perception of the Companys services, products and brands; the Companys near-term write-off rates, including those for 2010, which will depend in part on changes in the level of the Companys loan balances, delinquency rates of cardmembers, unemployment rates and the volume of bankruptcies; differences between owned (i.e., GAAP) and managed write-off rates, which can be impacted by factors such as the various types of customer accounts in the portfolios of the Company and the lending securitization trust; consumer and business spending on the Companys credit and charge card products and Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products and growth in card lending balances, which depend in part on the economic environment, and the ability to issue new and enhanced card and prepaid products, services and rewards programs, and increase revenues from such products, attract new cardmembers, reduce cardmember attrition, capture a greater share of existing cardmembers spending, and sustain premium discount rates on its card products in light of regulatory and market pressures, increase merchant coverage, retain cardmembers after low introductory lending rates have expired, and expand the Global Network Services business; the write-off and delinquency rates in the medium- to long-term of cardmembers added by the Company during the past few years, which could impact their profitability to the Company; the Companys ability to effectively implement changes in the pricing of certain of its products and services; fluctuations in interest rates (including fluctuations in benchmarks, such as LIBOR and other benchmark rates, and credit spreads), which impact the Companys borrowing costs, return on lending products and the value of the Companys investments; the actual amount to be spent by the Company on marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services based on managements assessment of competitive opportunities and other factors affecting its judgment; the ability to control and manage operating, infrastructure, advertising and promotion expenses as business expands or changes, including the ability to accurately estimate the provision for the cost of the Membership Rewards program; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the Companys ability to grow its business and generate excess capital and earnings in a manner and at levels that will allow the Company to return a portion of capital to shareholders, which will depend on the Companys ability to manage its capital needs, and the effect of business mix, acquisitions and rating agency and regulatory requirements, including those arising from the Companys status as a bank holding Company; the ability of the Company to meet its objectives with respect to the growth of its brokered retail CD program, brokerage sweep account program and the direct deposit initiative; the success of the Global Network Services business in partnering with banks in the United States, which will depend in part on the extent to which such business further enhances the Companys brand, allows the Company to leverage its significant processing scale, expands merchant coverage of the network, provides Global Network Services bank partners in the United States the benefits of greater cardmember loyalty and higher spend per customer, and merchant benefits such as greater transaction volume and additional higher spending customers; the ability of the Global Network Services business to meet the performance requirements called for by the Companys settlements with MasterCard and Visa; trends in travel and entertainment spending and the overall level of consumer confidence; the uncertainties associated with business acquisitions, including, among others, the failure to realize anticipated business retention, growth and cost savings, as well as the ability to effectively integrate the acquired business into the Companys existing operations; the success, timeliness and financial impact (including costs, cost savings, and other benefits, including increased revenues), and beneficial effect on the Companys operating expense to revenue ratio, both in the short-term (including during 2010) and over time, of reengineering initiatives being implemented or considered by the Company, including cost management, structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities and operations consolidation, outsourcing (including, among others, technologies operations), relocating certain functions to lower-cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the internet to save costs, and planned staff reductions relating to certain of such reengineering actions; the Companys ability to reinvest the benefits arising from such reengineering actions in its businesses; bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations or similar events  affecting the airline or any other industry representing a significant portion of the Companys billed business, including any potential negative effect on particular card products and services and billed business generally that could result from the actual or perceived weakness of key business partners in such industries; the triggering of obligations to make payments to certain co-brand partners, merchants, vendors and customers under contractual arrangements with such parties under certain circumstances; a downturn in the Companys businesses and/or negative changes in the Companys and its subsidiaries credit ratings, which could result in contingent payments under contracts, decreased liquidity and higher borrowing costs; the ability of the Company to satisfy its liquidity needs and execute on its funding plans, which will depend on, among other things, the Companys future business growth, its credit ratings, market capacity and demand for securities offered by the Company, performance by the Companys counterparties under its bank credit facilities and other lending facilities, regulatory changes, including changes to the policies, rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the Companys ability to securitize and sell receivables and the performance of receivables previously sold in securitization transactions; accuracy of estimates for the fair value of the assets in the Companys investment portfolio and, in particular, those investments that are not readily marketable, including the valuation of the interest-only strip relating to the Companys lending securitizations and the ability of our charge card and lending trusts to maintain excess spreads at levels sufficient to avoid material set-asides or early amortization of our charge card and lending securitizations, which will depend on various factors such as income derived from the relevant portfolios and their respective credit performances; the increase in excess spread resulting from the designation of discount option receivables with respect to the American Express Credit Account Master Trust, which will depend in part on the monthly principal payment rate posted to accounts in, and the credit performance of, the securitized lending portfolio; the Companys ability to invest in technology advances across all areas of its business to stay on the leading edge of technologies applicable to the payment industry; the Companys ability to attract and retain executive management and other key employees; the Companys ability to protect its intellectual property rights (IP) and avoid infringing the IP of other parties; the potential negative effect on the Companys businesses and infrastructure, including information technology, of terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other catastrophic events in the future; political or economic instability in certain regions or countries, which could affect lending and other commercial activities, among other businesses, or restrictions on convertibility of certain currencies; changes in laws or government regulations; the potential impact of The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 and regulations recently adopted by federal bank regulators relating to certain credit and charge card practices, including, among others, the imposition by card issuers of interest rate increases on outstanding balances and the allocation of payments in respect of outstanding balances with different interest rates, which could have an adverse impact on the Companys net income; accounting changes, including the implementation of changes to the accounting of off-balance sheet activities or other potential regulatory interpretations in this area, which, effective January 1, 2010, requires the Company to consolidate the assets and liabilities of the lending securitization trust, thereby requiring the Company to reestablish loss reserves, which has in turn resulted in a reduction to the Companys regulatory capital ratios and will also result in a change with respect to the presentation of its financial statements beginning in the first quarter of 2010, and which also could result in lower credit ratings on securities issued by the Companys off-balance sheet securitization trusts as a result of the uncertainty with respect to the ability of rating agencies to continue to rely on the FDICs safe harbor rule regarding the isolation of securitized assets in the event of a sponsoring banks receivership or conservatorship, which in turn could adversely impact the Companys ability to utilize securitizations as a component of its funding strategy; outcomes and costs associated with litigation and compliance and regulatory matters; and competitive pressures in all of the Companys major businesses. A further description of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, the Companys Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2009, and the Companys other reports filed with the SEC.
 
7
 
 
All information in the following tables is presented on a basis prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), unless otherwise indicated.
(Preliminary)
(Millions)
# - - Denotes a variance of more than 100%.
(A) Represents income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, less (i) accelerated preferred dividend accretion of $212 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 due to the repurchase of $3.39 billion of preferred shares issued as part of the Capital Purchase Program (CPP), (ii) preferred share dividends and related accretion of $94 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, and (iii) earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items of $9 million and $1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $22 million and $15 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
8
 
(Preliminary)
(Billions)
 
9
 
(Preliminary)
(Millions)
 
# - - Denotes a variance of more than 100%.
 
10
 
(Preliminary)
Financial Summary (continued)
# - - Denotes a variance of more than 100%.
(A) Refer to Appendix I for components of return on average equity, return on average common equity and return on average tangible common equity.
 
 
11

EXHIBIT 99.2 All information in the following tables is presented on a basis prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), unless otherwise indicated. (Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. (A) Represents income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, less (i) accelerated preferred dividend accretion of $212 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 due to the repurchase of $3.39 billion of preferred shares issued as part of the Capital Purchase Program (CPP), (ii) preferred share dividends and related accretion of $94 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, and (iii) earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items of $9 million and $1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $22 million and $15 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. -1-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Billions) -2-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (Millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. -3-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (CONTINUED) SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. (A) Refer to Appendix I for components of return on average equity, return on average common equity and return on average tangible common equity. -4-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Card billed business includes activities (including cash advances) related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. Card billed business is reflected in the United States or outside the United States based on where the cardmember is domiciled. (B) Total cards-in-force represents the number of cards that are issued and outstanding. Proprietary basic consumer cards-in-force includes basic cards issued to the primary account owner and does not include additional supplemental cards issued on that account. Proprietary basic small business and corporate cards-in-force include basic and supplemental cards issued to employee cardmembers. Non-proprietary basic cards-in-force includes all cards that are issued and outstanding under network partnership agreements. (C) This calculation is designed to approximate merchant pricing. It represents the percentage of billed business (both proprietary and Global Network Services) retained by the Company from merchants it acquires, prior to payments to third parties unrelated to merchant acceptance. (D) Average basic cardmember spending and average fee per card are computed from proprietary card activities only. Average fee per card is computed based on net card fees, including the amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs, plus card fees included in interest and fees on loans (including related amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs), divided by average worldwide proprietary cards-in-force. The card fees related to cardmember loans included in interest and fees on loans were $54 million and $41 million for the quarters ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $186 million and $146 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The adjusted average fee per card is computed in the same manner, but excludes amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs (a portion of which is charge card related and included in net card fees and a portion of which is lending related and included in interest and fees on loans). The amount of amortization excluded was $54 million and $243 million for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009, and $76 million and $320 million for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2008. The Company presents adjusted average fee per card because management believes that this metric presents a useful indicator of card fee pricing across a range of its proprietary card products. -5-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED) (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. (A) In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in U.S. Card Services are written off to 180 days past due, consistent with applicable regulatory guidance. Previously, receivables were written off when 360 days past due. The net write-offs for the fourth quarter and full year 2008 include write-offs of $341 million resulting from this write-off methodology change, which is not reflected in the net write-off rate for U.S. Card Services. Including the $341 million in write-offs, the net write-off rate was 11.0 percent and 5.4 percent for the fourth quarter and full year 2008, respectively. (B) "Owned," a GAAP basis measurement, reflects only cardmember loans included in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. (C) This amount includes reserves of $(9) million for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and $160 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 that were (added) removed in connection with (maturities) securitizations during the period. The offset is in the allocated cost of the associated retained subordinated securities. This amount also includes foreign currency translation adjustments. The prior period included foreign currency translation and other adjustments primarily related to the reclassification of certain waived fee reserves to a contra-cardmember receivable. (D) See Appendix III for discussion of net interest yield on cardmember loans. (E) Includes on-balance sheet cardmember loans and off-balance sheet securitized cardmember loans. The difference between the "owned basis" (GAAP) information and "managed basis" information is attributable to the effects of securitization activities. Refer to the information set forth under U.S. Card Services Selected Financial Information for further discussion of the managed basis presentation. -6-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Millions) (A) Represents income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, less (i) accelerated preferred dividend accretion of $212 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 due to the repurchase of $3.39 billion of preferred shares issued as part of the Capital Purchase Program (CPP), (ii) preferred share dividends and related accretion of $22 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 and $72 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, respectively, and (iii) earnings allocated to participating share awards of $9 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, $8 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, $1 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, $4 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, and $1 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, respectively. -7-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (Millions) -8-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY FINANCIAL SUMMARY (CONTINUED) SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (A) Refer to Appendix I for components of return on average equity, return on average common equity and return on average tangible common equity. -9-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Card billed business includes activities (including cash advances) related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. Card billed business is reflected in the United States or outside the United States based on where the cardmember is domiciled. (B) Total cards-in-force represents the number of cards that are issued and outstanding. Proprietary basic consumer cards-in-force includes basic cards issued to the primary account owner and does not include additional supplemental cards issued on that account. Proprietary basic small business and corporate cards-in-force include basic and supplemental cards issued to employee cardmembers. Non-proprietary basic cards-in-force includes all cards that are issued and outstanding under network partnership agreements. (C) This calculation is designed to approximate merchant pricing. It represents the percentage of billed business (both proprietary and Global Network Services) retained by the Company from merchants it acquires, prior to payments to third parties unrelated to merchant acceptance. (D) Average basic cardmember spending and average fee per card are computed from proprietary card activities only. Average fee per card is computed based on net card fees, including the amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs, plus card fees included in interest and fees on loans (including related amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs), divided by average worldwide proprietary cards-in-force. The card fees related to cardmember loans included in interest and fees on loans were $54 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, $47 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, $45 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, $40 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, and $41 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, respectively. The adjusted average fee per card is computed in the same manner, but excludes amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs (a portion of which is charge card related and included in net card fees and a portion of which is lending related and included in interest and fees on loans). The amount of amortization excluded for these periods was $54 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, $57 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, $62 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, $70 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, and $76 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, respectively. The Company presents adjusted average fee per card because management believes that this metric presents a useful indicator of card fee pricing across a range of its proprietary card products. -10-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED) (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in U.S. Card Services are written off to 180 days past due, consistent with applicable regulatory guidance. Previously, receivables were written off when 360 days past due. The net write-offs for the fourth quarter of 2008 include write-offs of $341 million resulting from this write-off methodology change, which is not reflected in the net write-off rate for U.S. Card Services. Including the $341 million in write-offs, the net write-off rate was 11.0 percent for the fourth quarter of 2008. (B) "Owned," a GAAP basis measurement, reflects only cardmember loans included in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. (C) This amount includes reserves of $(9) million for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, $25 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and $144 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 that were (added) removed in connection with (maturities) securitizations during the period. The offset is in the allocated cost of the associated retained subordinated securities. This amount also includes foreign currency translation adjustments. Prior periods included foreign currency translation adjustments, and the quarter ended December 31, 2008 also included other adjustments primarily related to the reclassification of waived fee reserves to a contra-cardmember receivable. (D) See Appendix III for discussion of net interest yield on cardmember loans. (E) Includes on-balance sheet cardmember loans and off-balance sheet securitized cardmember loans. The difference between the "owned basis" (GAAP) information and "managed basis" information is attributable to the effects of securitization activities. Refer to the information set forth under U.S. Card Services Selected Financial Information for further discussion of the managed basis presentation. -11-
(Preliminary) U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. -12-
(Preliminary) U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGED BASIS PRESENTATION (Millions) # - Denotes a variance of more than 100%. For U.S. Card Services, the managed basis presentation assumes that there have been no off-balance sheet securitization transactions, i.e., all securitized cardmember loans and related income effects are reflected as if they were in the Company's balance sheets and income statements, respectively. For the managed basis presentation, revenue and expenses related to securitized cardmember loans are reflected in other commissions and fees (included above in discount revenue, net card fees and other), interest income, interest expense, and provisions for losses. On a managed basis, there is no securitization income, net as the managed basis presentation assumes no securitization transactions have occurred. The Company presents U.S. Card Services information on a managed basis because that is the way the Company's management views and manages the business. Management believes that a full picture of trends in the Company's cardmember lending business can only be derived by evaluating the performance of both securitized and non-securitized cardmember loans. Management also believes that use of a managed basis presentation presents a more comprehensive portrayal of the key dynamics of the cardmember lending business. Irrespective of the on and off-balance sheet funding mix, it is important for management and investors to see metrics for the entire cardmember lending portfolio because they are more representative of the economics of the aggregate cardmember relationships and ongoing business performance and trends over time. It is also important for investors to see the overall growth of cardmember loans and related revenue in order to evaluate market share. These metrics are significant in evaluating the Company's performance and can only be properly assessed when all non-securitized and securitized cardmember loans are viewed together on a managed basis. The Company does not currently securitize international loans. -13-
(Preliminary) U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (B) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. (C) In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in U.S. Card Services are written off to 180 days past due, consistent with applicable regulatory guidance. Previously, receivables were written off when 360 days past due. The net write-offs for the fourth quarter and full year 2008 include write-offs of $341 million resulting from this write-off methodology change, which is not reflected in the net write-off rate for U.S. Card Services. Including the $341 million in write-offs, the net write-off rate was 11.0 percent and 5.4 percent for the fourth quarter and full year 2008, respectively. (D) "Owned," a GAAP basis measurement, reflects only cardmember loans included in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. (E) See Appendix IV for discussion of net interest yield on cardmember loans. (F) Includes on-balance sheet cardmember loans and off-balance sheet securitized cardmember loans. The difference between the "owned basis" (GAAP) information and "managed basis" information is attributable to the effects of securitization activities. Refer to the information set forth under U.S. Card Services Selected Financial Information for further discussion of the managed basis presentation. -14-
(Preliminary) U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) -15-
(Preliminary) U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGED BASIS PRESENTATION (Millions) See page 21 for discussion of managed basis presentation. -16-
(Preliminary) U.S. CARD SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (B) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. (C) In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in U.S. Card Services are written off to 180 days past due, consistent with applicable regulatory guidance. Previously, receivables were written off when 360 days past due. The net write-offs for the fourth quarter of 2008 include write-offs of $341 million resulting from this write-off methodology change, which is not reflected in the net write-off rate for U.S. Card Services. Including the $341 million in write-offs, the net write-off rate was 11.0 percent for the fourth quarter of 2008. (D) "Owned," a GAAP basis measurement, reflects only cardmember loans included in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. (E) See Appendix IV for discussion of net interest yield on cardmember loans. (F) Includes on-balance sheet cardmember loans and off-balance sheet securitized cardmember loans. The difference between the "owned basis" (GAAP) information and "managed basis" information is attributable to the effects of securitization activities. Refer to the information set forth under U.S. Card Services Selected Financial Information for further discussion of the managed basis presentation. -17-
(Preliminary) INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) # - Denotes variance of more than 100%. -18-
(Preliminary) INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (B) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. (C) See Appendix IV for discussion of net interest yield on cardmember loans. -19-
(Preliminary) INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) -20-
(Preliminary) INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (B) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. (C) See Appendix IV for discussion of net interest yield on cardmember loans. -21-
(Preliminary) GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) # - Denotes variance of more than 100%. -22-
(Preliminary) GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (B) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. -23-
(Preliminary) GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) -24-
(Preliminary) GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (B) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. -25-
(Preliminary) GLOBAL NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) # - Denotes variance of more than 100%. -26-
(Preliminary) GLOBAL NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Global Card billed business includes activities (including cash advances) related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. (B) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (C) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. -27-
(Preliminary) GLOBAL NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA (Millions) -28-
(Preliminary) GLOBAL NETWORK & MERCHANT SERVICES SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Billions, except percentages and where indicated) (A) Global Card billed business includes activities (including cash advances) related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network partnership agreements, and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. (B) Segment capital represents capital allocated to a segment based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements. (C) Refer to Appendix II for components of return on average segment capital and return on average tangible segment capital. -29-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY COMPONENTS OF RETURN ON AVERAGE EQUITY (ROE), RETURN ON AVERAGE COMMON EQUITY (ROCE), AND RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON EQUITY (ROTCE) APPENDIX I (Millions) (A) Return on average equity and return on average common equity are calculated by dividing one year period net income/net income attributable to common shareholders by one year average total shareholders' equity/average common shareholders' equity, respectively. Return on average tangible common equity is computed in the same manner as return on average common equity except the computation of average tangible common shareholders' equity excludes average goodwill and other intangibles. The Company believes that return on average tangible common equity is a useful measure of the profitability of its business growth. -30-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY COMPONENTS OF RETURN ON AVERAGE SEGMENT CAPITAL (ROSC) AND RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE SEGMENT CAPITAL (ROTSC) APPENDIX II (Millions) (A) Return on average segment capital is calculated by dividing one year period segment income by one year average segment capital. Return on average tangible segment capital is computed in the same manner as return on average segment capital except the computation of average tangible segment capital excludes average goodwill and other intangibles. The Company believes that return on average tangible segment capital is a useful measure of the profitability of its business growth. -31-
(Preliminary) AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY NET INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER LOANS APPENDIX III (Millions) (A) Represents net interest income allocable to the Company's cardmember lending portfolio, which excludes the impact of card fees on loans and balance transfer fees attributable to the Company's cardmember lending portfolio. (B) Represents average loans excluding the impact of deferred card fees net of deferred direct acquisition costs for cardmember loans. (C) Net interest yield on cardmember loans represents the net spread earned on cardmember loans. Net interest yield on cardmember loans (both on an owned and managed basis) is computed by dividing adjusted net interest income by adjusted average loans, computed on an annualized basis. The calculation of net interest yield on cardmember loans (both on an owned and managed basis) includes interest and fees that are deemed uncollectible. For the owned basis presentation, reserves and net write-offs related to uncollectible interest and fees are recorded through provisions for losses - cardmember lending, and for the managed basis presentation, reserves and net write-offs related to uncollectible interest and fees are included as a reduction to securitization income, net; therefore, such reserves and net write-offs are not included in the net interest yield calculation. The Company believes net interest yield on cardmember loans (on both an owned and managed basis) is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of the Company's cardmember lending portfolio. (D) Includes on-balance sheet cardmember loans and off-balance sheet securitized cardmember loans. Refer to the information set forth under U.S. Card Services Selected Financial Information for further discussion of the managed basis presentation. (E) Includes the GAAP to managed basis securitization adjustments to interest income and interest expense as set forth under U.S. Card Services Selected Financial Information managed basis presentation. (F) Represents net interest income allocable to the Company's managed cardmember lending portfolio, which excludes the impact of card fees on managed loans and balance transfer fees attributable to the Company's managed cardmember lending portfolio. (G) Represents average managed loans excluding the impact of deferred card fees net of deferred direct acquisition costs for managed cardmember loans. -32-
(Preliminary) U. S. CARD SERVICES AND INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES NET INTEREST YIELD ON CARDMEMBER LOANS APPENDIX IV (Millions) (A) Represents net interest income allocable to the Company's cardmember lending portfolio, which excludes the impact of card fees on loans and balance transfer fees attributable to the Company's cardmember lending portfolio. (B) Represents average loans excluding the impact of deferred card fees net of deferred direct acquisition costs for cardmember loans. (C) Net interest yield on cardmember loans represents the net spread earned on cardmember loans. Net interest yield on cardmember loans (both on an owned and managed basis) is computed by dividing adjusted net interest income by adjusted average loans, computed on an annualized basis. The calculation of net interest yield on cardmember loans (both on an owned and managed basis) includes interest and fees that are deemed uncollectible. For the owned basis presentation, reserves and net write-offs related to uncollectible interest and fees are recorded through provisions for losses - cardmember lending, and for the managed basis presentation, reserves and net write-offs related to uncollectible interest and fees are included as a reduction to securitization income, net; therefore, such reserves and net write-offs are not included in the net interest yield calculation. The Company believes net interest yield on cardmember loans (on both an owned and managed basis) is useful to investors because it provides a measure of profitability of the Company's cardmember lending portfolio. (D) Includes on-balance sheet cardmember loans and off-balance sheet securitized cardmember loans. Refer to the information set forth under U.S. Card Services Selected Financial Information for further discussion of the managed basis presentation. (E) Includes the GAAP to managed basis securitization adjustments to interest income and interest expense as set forth under U.S. Card Services Selected Financial Information managed basis presentation. (F) Represents net interest income allocable to the Company's managed cardmember lending portfolio, which excludes the impact of card fees on managed loans and balance transfer fees attributable to the Company's managed cardmember lending portfolio. (G) Represents average managed loans excluding the impact of deferred card fees net of deferred direct acquisition costs for managed cardmember loans. -33-

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
The enclosed summary should be read in conjunction with the text and statistical tables included in American Express Companys (the Company or AXP) Fourth Quarter/Full Year 2009 Earnings Release.
 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS
BUSINESS METRICS
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
__________________________
 
1
 
CAPITAL
On June 9, 2009, the Company announced that it had received notification from the Treasury that it had met all of the requirements to repurchase the CPP preferred shares.  This included the pre-condition that the Company raise capital in the public markets, which it successfully did with its issuance of $3.0B of non-guaranteed senior debt on May 18, 2009 and the completion of a $500MM common equity offering on June 5, 2009.   As such, the Company completed the repurchase of the CPP shares on June 17, 2009.  Upon repurchase, the accretion of the preferred shares to face value was accelerated, amounting to a one-time negative EPS impact during 2Q09 of $212MM, or $0.18 per basic and diluted common share.
On July 29, 2009, the Company repurchased the warrants issued under the CPP Program for $340MM, which provided the Treasury with an annualized return on the Companys CPP participation of 26%.  The warrant repurchase resulted in a reduction of cash and corresponding adjustment to Retained Earnings and Additional Paid-In Capital on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet.  There was no impact to the Companys Consolidated Net Income or EPS.
 
2
 
No shares have been repurchased over the last seven quarters, as share repurchases were suspended during 1Q08 in light of the challenging global economic environment and limitations while under the CPP.  Since the inception of repurchase programs in December 1994, 670MM shares have been acquired under cumulative Board authorizations to repurchase up to 770MM shares.  On a cumulative basis, since 1994 the Company has distributed 67% of capital generated through share repurchases and dividends.
       :
-
Shares Outstanding
 
 
_________________________
 
3
 
FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY
 
The average duration and rate on outstanding U.S. retail CDs were 29 months and 2.3%, respectively.
The Company offers brokered deposits within its American Express Centurion Bank and American Express Bank, FSB subsidiaries (together, the Banks).  These funds are insured up to $250,000 through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).  In addition, during 2Q09, the Company launched a direct deposit-taking program, Personal Savings from American Express.  This program makes FDIC-insured certificates of deposit (CDs) and high-yield savings account products available directly from American Express Bank, FSB to consumers.
On March 3, 2009, the Department of the Treasury and the Federal Reserve Board announced the launch of the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF), which is currently set to expire on March 31, 2010.  Securitized credit and charge card receivables are eligible collateral under the TALF, provided the securities qualify for AAA ratings from two or more major nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (NRSROs).
The Company currently has an objective to hold excess cash and readily marketable securities to satisfy all maturing funding obligations for a 12-month period, in addition to having access to significant additional contingent liquidity sources, in the event that access to its primary funding sources should become unavailable.  As of December 31, 2009, the Company held $26B of excess cash and readily marketable securities versus $20B of funding maturities over the next twelve months.
*
*
 
 
 
_________________________
 
4
 
OTHER ITEMS OF NOTE
The transaction closed on January 15, 2010 upon receipt of regulatory approval for a cash purchase price of approximately $300MM.
On May 18, 2009, the Company announced another phase of reengineering initiatives which were expected to produce incremental cost benefits of approximately $0.8B in 2009.  These initiatives included: reducing staffing levels and compensation expenses (expected benefit of $175MM in 2009), scaling back investment spending on marketing and business development (expected benefit of $500MM in 2009) and cutting certain professional services, travel and general overhead expenses (expected benefit of $125MM in 2009).  The Company began to implement these initiatives in 2Q09, and as such, recorded a 2Q09 net reengineering charge of $182MM ($118MM after-tax) in continuing operations, primarily associated with severance and other costs related to the elimination of approximately 4,000 positions.  Cumulatively through these reengineering initiatives, the Company expected to eliminate approximately 11,000 positions, which accounted for approximately 17% of its global workforce as of September 30, 2008.
As the Company has previously indicated, beginning in 3Q09, benefits related to better than initially forecasted credit and business trends for 2009 have been utilized to increase spending on marketing and other business-building initiatives during the second half of the year.  This reduced the initially expected 2009 reengineering benefits discussed above related to investment spending and position eliminations, although the employee count has declined 8,200, or 12%, since 9/30/08 primarily due to the above initiatives.
As such, 4Q09 income from continuing operations reflects $1MM ($1MM after-tax) of net reengineering costs consisting of $26MM ($17MM after-tax) of reengineering benefits, related to the reversal of previously established reserves for the reduced position eliminations discussed above, which was offset by $27MM ($18MM after-tax) of costs during the quarter related to new reengineering initiatives.
 
5
 
Under the terms of the settlement agreements, the Company will receive aggregate maximum payments of up to $2.25B from Visa and $1.8B from MasterCard.  The settlement with Visa is comprised of an initial payment of $1.13B ($700MM after-tax) that was recorded in 4Q07 and received in March 2008, and quarterly payments of up to $70MM ($43MM after-tax) for four years from 1Q08 through 4Q11. The settlement with MasterCard is comprised of quarterly payments of up to $150MM ($93MM after-tax) for three years from 3Q08 through 2Q11.  The Company recognized $70MM from Visa for each of the past eight quarters and $150MM from MasterCard for each of the past six quarters pursuant to these agreements.
The installment payments from both parties are subject to the Company achieving certain quarterly performance criteria in the Global Network Services (GNS) business within the U.S., which the Company believes it is positioned to meet.  Payments earned through December 2009 have been recorded as a reduction to the other, net expense line within the Corporate & Other segment.
EXPANDED PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
 
 
In our proprietary issuing and network businesses we:
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the GNS business we:
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
_________________________
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
Supplemental Information  Tangible Common Equity and Total Adjusted Assets
During the third quarter of 2006, the Company issued $750MM of 6.80% Subordinated Debentures due 2036 (Subordinated Debentures), which are automatically extendable until 2066 unless certain events occur prior to that date. In connection with the Subordinated Debentures, the Company has undertaken to disclose on a quarterly basis the amount of its tangible common equity and total adjusted assets, as defined in the Subordinated Debentures.  The Companys consolidated tangible common equity amount as of the end of any fiscal quarter means the total shareholders equity, excluding preferred stock, of the Company as reflected on its consolidated balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such fiscal quarter end minus (i) intangible assets and goodwill and (ii) deferred acquisition costs, as determined in accordance with GAAP and reflected in such consolidated balance sheet.  The Companys total adjusted assets as of the end of any fiscal quarter is calculated as the sum of (i) total consolidated assets as reflected on the Companys balance sheet minus (ii) non-securitized Cardmember lending receivables (without deduction for reserves), which are set forth on the Companys balance sheet, plus (iii) managed (i.e., securitized and non-securitized) worldwide Cardmember lending receivables as reported by the Company for such fiscal quarter.  As of December 31, 2009, the Companys tangible common equity was $11B and its total adjusted assets as defined in the Subordinated Debentures, were $153B.  As of December 31, 2009, the consolidated assets as reflected on the Companys balance sheet were $124B.
 
 
14
 
 
# Denotes a variance of more than 100%.
 
 
P&L Discussion:
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
Managed Basis
For USCS, the managed basis presentation assumes that there have been no off-balance sheet securitization transactions, i.e., all securitized cardmember loans and related income effects are reflected as if they were in the Companys balance sheets and income statements, respectively. For the managed basis presentation, revenue and expenses related to securitized cardmember loans are reflected in other commissions and fees (included in discount revenue, net card fees and other), interest income, interest expense and provisions for losses. On a managed basis, there is no securitization income, net, as the managed basis presentation assumes no securitization transactions have occurred.
The Company presents USCS information on a managed basis because that is the way the Companys management views and manages the business. Management believes that a full picture of trends in the Companys cardmember lending business can only be derived by evaluating the performance of both securitized and non-securitized cardmember loans. Management also believes that use of a managed basis presentation presents a more comprehensive portrayal of the key dynamics of the cardmember lending business. Irrespective of the on- and off-balance sheet funding mix, it is important for management and investors to see metrics for the entire cardmember lending portfolio because they are more representative of the economics of the aggregate cardmember relationships and ongoing business performance and trends over time. It is also important for investors to see the overall growth of cardmember loans and related revenue in order to evaluate market share. These metrics are significant in evaluating the Companys performance and can only be properly assessed when all non-securitized and securitized cardmember loans are viewed together on a managed basis. The Company does not currently securitize international loans.
On a GAAP basis, revenue and expenses from securitized cardmember loans are reflected in the Companys income statements in securitization income, net, fees and commissions, and provisions for losses for cardmember lending. At the time of a securitization transaction, the securitized cardmember loans are removed from the Companys balance sheet, and the resulting gain on sale is reflected in securitization income, net as well as an impact to provision for losses (credit reserves are no longer recorded for the cardmember loans once sold). Over the life of a securitization transaction, the Company recognizes servicing fees and other net revenues (referred to as excess spread) related to the interests sold to investors (i.e. the investors interests). These amounts, in addition to changes in the fair value of the interest-only strip, are reflected in securitization income, net, and fees and commissions. The Company also recognizes total interest income over the life of the securitization transaction related to the interest it retains (i.e. the sellers interest). At the maturity of a securitization transaction, cardmember loans on the balance sheet increase, and the impact of the incremental required loss reserves is recorded in provisions for losses.
As presented, in aggregate over the life of a securitization transaction, the pretax income impact to the Company is the same whether or not the Company had securitized cardmember loans or funded these loans through other financing activities (assuming the same financing costs). The income statement classifications, however, of specific items will differ.
The following information reconciles the GAAP basis presentation for certain USCS income statement line items to the managed basis presentation, where different:
 
17
 
Managed P&L Discussion
 
 
 
18
 
 
# Denotes a variance of more than 100%.
 
 
P&L Discussion
 
19
 
 
 
 
20
 
 
# Denotes a variance of more than 100%.
 
P&L Discussion
 
21
 
 
 
22
 
# Denotes a variance of more than 100%.
 
 
P&L Discussion
 
23
 
 
24
 
 
 
 
# Denotes a variance of more than 100%.  *Represents income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, less (i) accelerated preferred dividend accretion of $212MM for 2009 due to the repurchase of $3.39B of preferred shares issued as part of the CPP, (ii) preferred share dividends and related accretion of $94MM for 2009, and (iii) earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items of $22MM and $15MM for 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
25
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS
CAPITAL
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
_________________________
 
26
 
 
 
27
 
 
 
 
 
28
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30
 
 
P&L Discussion:
 
31
 
 
 
 
 
32
 
Managed Basis
The following information reconciles the GAAP basis presentation for certain USCS income statement line items to the Managed Basis presentation, where different.  See page 17 for a discussion of Managed Basis results:
Managed P&L Discussion
 
 
 
33
 
 
 
P&L Discussion
 
34
 
 
 
 
35
 
 
 
P&L Discussion
 
36
 
 
 
 
37
 
 
P&L Discussion
 
38
 
This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements, which address the Companys expected business and financial performance, among other matters, contain words such as believe, expect, anticipate, optimistic, intend, plan, aim, will, may, should, could, would, likely, and similar expressions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: the Companys ability to manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans, merchants and other credit trends, which will depend in part on (i) the economic environment, including, among other things, the housing market, the rates of bankruptcies and unemployment, which can affect spending on card products, debt payments by individual and corporate customers and businesses that accept the Companys card products, (ii) the effectiveness of the Companys credit models and (iii) the impact of recently enacted statutes and proposed legislative initiatives affecting the credit card business, including, without limitation, The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009; the impact of the Companys efforts to deal with delinquent cardmembers in the current challenging economic environment, which may affect payment patterns of cardmembers and the perception of the Companys services, products and brands; the Companys near-term write-off rates, including those for 2010, which will depend in part on changes in the level of the Companys loan balances, delinquency rates of cardmembers, unemployment rates and the volume of bankruptcies; differences between owned (i.e., GAAP) and managed write-off rates, which can be impacted by factors such as the various types of customer accounts in the portfolios of the Company and the lending securitization trust; consumer and business spending on the Companys credit and charge card products and Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products and growth in card lending balances, which depend in part on the economic environment, and the ability to issue new and enhanced card and prepaid products, services and rewards programs, and increase revenues from such products, attract new cardmembers, reduce cardmember attrition, capture a greater share of existing cardmembers spending, and sustain premium discount rates on its card products in light of regulatory and market pressures, increase merchant coverage, retain cardmembers after low introductory lending rates have expired, and expand the Global Network Services business; the write-off and delinquency rates in the medium- to long-term of cardmembers added by the Company during the past few years, which could impact their profitability to the Company; the Companys ability to effectively implement changes in the pricing of certain of its products and services; fluctuations in interest rates (including fluctuations in benchmarks, such as LIBOR and other benchmark rates, and credit spreads), which impact the Companys borrowing costs, return on lending products and the value of the Companys investments; the actual amount to be spent by the Company on marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services based on managements assessment of competitive opportunities and other factors affecting its judgment; the ability to control and manage operating, infrastructure, advertising and promotion expenses as business expands or changes, including the ability to accurately estimate the provision for the cost of the Membership Rewards program; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the Companys ability to grow its business and generate excess capital and earnings in a manner and at levels that will allow the Company to return a portion of capital to shareholders, which will depend on the Companys ability to manage its capital needs, and the effect of business mix, acquisitions and rating agency and regulatory requirements, including those arising from the Companys status as a bank holding Company; the ability of the Company to meet its objectives with respect to the growth of its brokered retail CD program, brokerage sweep account program and the direct deposit initiative; the success of the Global Network Services business in partnering with banks in the United States, which will depend in part on the extent to which such business further enhances the Companys brand, allows the Company to leverage its significant processing scale, expands merchant coverage of the network, provides Global Network Services bank partners in the United States the benefits of greater cardmember loyalty and higher spend per customer, and merchant benefits such as greater transaction volume and additional higher spending customers; the ability of the Global Network Services business to meet the performance requirements called for by the Companys settlements with MasterCard and Visa; trends in travel and entertainment spending and the overall level of consumer confidence; the uncertainties associated with business acquisitions, including, among others, the failure to realize anticipated business retention, growth and cost savings, as well as the ability to effectively integrate the acquired business into the Companys existing operations; the success, timeliness and financial impact (including costs, cost savings, and other benefits, including increased revenues), and beneficial effect on the Companys operating expense to revenue ratio, both in the short-term (including during 2010) and over time, of reengineering initiatives being implemented or considered by the Company, including cost management, structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities and operations consolidation, outsourcing (including, among others, technologies operations), relocating certain functions to lower-cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the internet to save costs, and planned staff reductions relating to certain of such reengineering actions; the Companys ability to reinvest the benefits arising from such reengineering actions in its businesses; bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations or similar events  affecting the airline or any other industry representing a significant portion of the Companys billed business, including any potential negative effect on particular card products and services and billed business generally that could result from the actual or perceived weakness of key business partners in such industries; the triggering of obligations to make payments to certain co-brand partners, merchants, vendors and customers under contractual arrangements with such parties under certain circumstances; a downturn in the Companys businesses and/or negative changes in the Companys and its subsidiaries credit ratings, which could result in contingent payments under contracts, decreased liquidity and higher borrowing costs; the ability of the Company to satisfy its liquidity needs and execute on its funding plans, which will depend on, among other things, the Companys future business growth, its credit ratings, market capacity and demand for securities offered by the Company, performance by the Companys counterparties under its bank credit facilities and other lending facilities, regulatory changes, including changes to the policies, rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the Companys ability to securitize and sell receivables and the performance of receivables previously sold in securitization transactions; accuracy of estimates for the fair value of the assets in the Companys investment portfolio and, in particular, those investments that are not readily marketable, including the valuation of the interest-only strip relating to the Companys lending securitizations and the ability of our charge card and lending trusts to maintain excess spreads at levels sufficient to avoid material set-asides or early amortization of our charge card and lending securitizations, which will depend on various factors such as income derived from the relevant portfolios and their respective credit performances; the increase in excess spread resulting from the designation of discount option receivables with respect to the American Express Credit Account Master Trust, which will depend in part on the monthly principal payment rate posted to accounts in, and the credit performance of, the securitized lending portfolio; the Companys ability to invest in technology advances across all areas of its business to stay on the leading edge of technologies applicable to the payment industry; the Companys ability to attract and retain executive management and other key employees; the Companys ability to protect its intellectual property rights (IP) and avoid infringing the IP of other parties; the potential negative effect on the Companys businesses and infrastructure, including information technology, of terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other catastrophic events in the future; political or economic instability in certain regions or countries, which could affect lending and other commercial activities, among other businesses, or restrictions on convertibility of certain currencies; changes in laws or government regulations; the potential impact of The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 and regulations recently adopted by federal bank regulators relating to certain credit and charge card practices, including, among others, the imposition by card issuers of interest rate increases on outstanding balances and the allocation of payments in respect of outstanding balances with different interest rates, which could have an adverse impact on the Companys net income; accounting changes, including the January 2010 implementation of changes to the accounting of off-balance sheet activities or other potential regulatory interpretations in this area, which has resulted in the Companys now having to consolidate the assets and liabilities of the lending securitization trust, thereby requiring the Company to reestablish loss reserves, which has in turn resulted in a reduction to the Companys regulatory capital ratios and will also result in a change with respect to the presentation of its financial statements beginning in the first quarter of 2010, and which also could result in lower credit ratings on securities issued by the Companys off-balance sheet securitization trusts as a result of the uncertainty with respect to the ability of rating agencies to continue to rely on the FDICs safe harbor rule regarding the isolation of securitized assets in the event of a sponsoring banks receivership or conservatorship, which in turn could adversely impact the Companys ability to utilize securitizations as a component of its funding strategy; outcomes and costs associated with litigation and compliance and regulatory matters; and competitive pressures in all of the Companys major businesses. A further description of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, the Companys Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2009, and the Companys other reports filed with the SEC.
 
 
39


