FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20100115114420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
American Express Company (the "Company") is hereby furnishing below owned and managed basis delinquency and write-off statistics for the lending portfolio of its U.S. Card Services ("USCS") operating segment for the months ended October 31, November 30 and December 31, 2009, and the three months ended December 31, 2009.  As previously stated in its reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), the Company believes that its managed basis presentation provides the Company's investors with a more comprehensive portrayal of the key dynamics of the Company's U.S. cardmember lending business over time.
As of and for the months ended October 31, November 30 and December 31, 2009 and the three months ended December 31, 2009
(Billions, except percentages)
The statistics presented above provide information that is additional to the data reported by the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the "Lending Trust") in its monthly Form 10-D report filed with the Commission.  The loans that have been securitized through the off-balance sheet Lending Trust do not possess identical characteristics with those of the total (, managed) portfolio of USCS loans, which reflects the aggregate of securitized and owned loans.  Thus, the reported credit performance of the Lending Trust may, on a month-to-month basis, be better or worse than the credit performance of the managed portfolio.  Reported differences may arise as a result of, among other things, differences in the mix and vintage of loans between the Lending Trust and the managed portfolio (including, among other things, the larger proportion of small business loans in the owned portfolio), the number of days in the reporting period covered by the Form 10-D being filed by the Lending Trust, the use of end-of-period principal loan balances to calculate write-off statistics in the Lending Trust compared to the use of average loan balances over the reporting period used in the managed statistics, as well as other mechanics of the calculation for the owned net write-off rate, which is impacted by the additions, issuances and maturities relating to the securitization trust within a particular period.  In addition, the reporting period for the managed portfolio is based on a calendar month, as compared to the reporting period covered by the Form 10-D reports for the Lending Trust, which is generally based on a monthly period beginning on or around the 25th day of each calendar month.
i.e.
Set forth below is certain information regarding the credit performance of the Lending Trust for its three most recent monthly reporting periods, as reported in its Form 10-D report filed with respect to each such period.
(Billions, except percentages)
 
-1-
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  January 15, 2010
 
-2-
 


