FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20101004132425.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 4, 2010, American Express Company issued a press release commenting on the lawsuit filed against it by the U.S. Department of Justice alleging anti-competitive practices  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
.
 
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements
 
This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are subject to risks and uncertainties.  The forward-looking statements, which address matters regarding the Companys business and the lawsuit filed earlier today against the Company by the Department of Justice (DOJ), contain words such as will, would, and similar expressions.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.  The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are n ot limited to, the unpredictable outcome and consequences of and costs associated with the DOJs lawsuit.  A further description of this and other risks and uncertainties can be found in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31 and June 30, 2010, and its other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
Exhibit
 
99.1           Press Release, dated October 4, 2010.
 
 
-2-
 
Date:  October 4, 2010
 
-3-
 
 
 
 
               
Item No.
Description
 
99.1                      Press Release, dated October 4, 2010
 
-4-
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
[LOGO OF AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY]
 
 
 
 
 
 
October 4, 2010  American Express said the antitrust lawsuit filed today against the company is a significant retreat from previous Department of Justice efforts to promote competition in the payments industry. The new approach would ultimately limit consumer choice, reduce competition and curtail innovation.
 
The governments lawsuit claims that terms of American Express merchant contracts,  which protect cardmembers against discrimination and disruption at the point of sale, violate U.S. antitrust laws.
 
The Justice Departments proposed remedy would interfere with consumer choice at the check-out counter by steering American Express cardmembers to another payment network.
 
The governments new legal theory ignores a key point that the Justice Department previously made and that the courts have already decided: American Express does not have the ability to force merchants to accept its products or pricing.
 
In todays action, the Department has sued a party proven not to have market power, said Kenneth I. Chenault, chairman and chief executive officer.  It represents an extraordinary retreat by the antitrust division. Instead of promoting competition, it now seeks to promote regulation that would ultimately limit competition.
 
We have no intention of settling the case, said Mr. Chenault.  We will defend the rights of our cardmembers at the point of sale and our own ability to negotiate freely with merchants.  We are confident that the courts will recognize the perverse anti-competitive nature of the governments case and that we will continue providing a competitive, superior service to cardmembers and merchants.
 
Whatever the intent, the governments new approach would hand an unfair advantage back to Visa and MasterCard, Mr. Chenault said.  The Justice Department would, in effect, be undoing its own six year fight (1998-2004) to allow smaller payment networks like American Express to provide a competitive choice to consumers and merchants.
 
American Express, the choice of higher spending cardmembers, partners with merchants who want to build business among these customers.
 
The company has invested billions of dollars to differentiate its products and services from the competition.  It succeeds by offering superior customer service and innovative benefits, along with marketing programs and analytical support for merchants who choose to accept the card.
 
While virtually all American Express Cardmembers also carry products from a competing network, they choose to use American Express because of the service and value they receive.
 
Not all merchants accept American Express Cards, but millions of them find greater value in welcoming our products than in accepting Visa, MasterCard and Discover exclusively, said Mr. Chenault.  Those merchants benefit from the investments we make to build strong cardmember relationships and to profit from the increased revenues they receive from these higher spending customers.
 
When merchants agree to accept American Express they promise not to bait and switch by advertising acceptance of American Express to attract customers and then steering them to another means of payment at the point of sale.  While American Express negotiates many contracts that allow merchants to run promotional campaigns with competing networks, they do not permit disrupting cardmembers at the point of sale. The governments proposed solution would eliminate that protection.
 
 Instead of promoting competition, the government remedy would ultimately wind up marginalizing it.  The governments one-sided remedy would put more power in the hands of Visa and MasterCard, the networks that steadily increased prices for credit card transactions over the past decade, that control over 70 percent of the market and that have ten times as many cards as American Express.  Anyone familiar with antitrust matters, would realize that in the real world such market power would ultimately work to the disadvantage of merchants as well as consumers.
 
 
 
-1-
 
 
The sheer number of Visa and MasterCard credit cards, and the fact that most of their customers do not carry an American Express product, makes it virtually impossible for merchants to steer customers away from the dominant networks, even if they have the right to do so.
 
It is difficult to understand why the same agency that fought so effectively to combat anti-competitive network conduct would now undermine their own efforts by regulating our contracts in a way that limits our ability to compete. said Mr. Chenault.
 
American Express has retained
Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP, as well as Cravath, Swaine and Moore LLP to serve as legal counsel.
 
Media & Investor Conference Call  Live Audio Webcast
A conference call with investors and with members of the media will be held today to discuss this announcement at 4:15 PM EDT.
 
A live audio webcast of the conference call will be accessible at . A replay of the call will be available at the same Web site address shortly after the call.
http://ir.americanexpress.com
 
About American Express
American Express is a global services company, providing customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success.  Learn more at www.americanexpress.com
 
 
-2-
 


