FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20111104142555.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 4, 2011
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
           
(b) (c)
On November 4, 2011, American Express Company (the Company) announced the appointment of Linda Zukauckas as Executive Vice President, Corporate Comptroller and Principal Accounting Officer of the Company. The appointment of Ms. Zukauckas to this role is effective November 28, 2011.  Ms. Zukauckas will assume the position of Principal Accounting Officer from David Cornish, who has been the Acting Corporate Comptroller and Principal Accounting Officer since May 2011.  Mr. Cornish will resume his role as senior vice president, Deputy Controller and head of the Companys Global Reporting team.
Ms. Zukauckas, age 50, most recently served as Managing Director  Corporate Strategy at Ally Financial Inc. (formerly GMAC Inc.).  During Ms. Zukauckass 11-year tenure at Ally, she also served as Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, Chief Financial Officer of North America Auto Finance and Global Head of Internal Audit.
In accordance with the terms of an employment offer letter between the Company and Ms. Zukauckas effective November 28, 2011, Ms. Zukauckas will be employed at will by the Company.  The employment offer letter provides for the following (with all equity grants subject to approval by the Companys Compensation and Benefits Committee):
A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Ms. Zukauckas is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
         
           
(d)
Exhibits
 
 
 
-2-
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  November 4, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
-3-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-4-
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
Release  News Release  News Release  News Release  News
    
   
    
   
    
   
    
   
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 American Express today announced that Linda Zukauckas will join the Company as Executive Vice President and Corporate Comptroller on November 28, 2011.
NEW YORK, November 4, 2011
 
Ms. Zukauckas joins American Express from Ally Financial (formerly GMAC Inc.), where she most recently served as Managing Director  Corporate Strategy.  During her 11 years with Ally, she held a number of senior leadership roles, serving as Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, CFO of North America Auto Finance, and Global Head of Internal Audit.  Earlier in her career, Ms. Zukauckas held senior audit roles at Deutsche Bank/Bankers Trust.  She began her career at PricewaterhouseCoopers.
 
Linda is a seasoned leader who knows the financial services industry and has strong experience working with audit committees of the board, senior business leaders and with regulators, said Daniel Henry, Chief Financial Officer.  Im delighted to welcome her to American Express and to the Finance Leadership team.
 
Ms. Zukauckas holds a BBA in Accounting from Texas Tech University and resides with her family in Chatham, N.J.
 
David Cornish, who has been serving as Acting Corporate Comptroller, will resume his role as senior vice president, Deputy Controller and head of the Global Reporting team.
 
 
 
CONTACTS:
 
Media Contacts:
 
Susan Korchak, , +1-212-640-4953
susan.korchak@aexp.com
 
 
Investors/Analysts:
 
Toby Willard, , +1-212-640-1958
sherwood.s.willardjr@aexp.com
 
 
 
 
 
 


