FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20110119090207.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.05    Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
 On January 19, 2011, American Express Company (the Company) announced that it was undertaking various reengineering initiatives resulting in charges aggregating approximately $113 million pre-tax (approximately $74 million after tax), which were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010.  The charges relating to the reengineering activities include a restructuring charge recorded in the fourth quarter (pursuant to a plan approved by the Companys management on December 20, 2010) in the amount of approximately $98 million pre-tax (approximately $63 million after tax) relating to employee severance obligations and other employee-related costs resulting from the planned consolidation of facilities within the Companys global servicing network.  The reengineering activities are expected to result in the elimination of approximately 3,500 jobs in the aggregate (including approximately 3,200 jobs relating to the restructuring charge described in the preceding sentence); , overall staffing levels are expected to decrease only by approximately 550 positions on a net basis as new employees are hired at the locations to which work is being transferred.  The Company began notifying affected employees of the reengineering activities on January 19, 2011.
   
however
 
 In addition, the Company expects to record further restructuring charges in one or more quarterly periods during 2011 relating to the reengineering activities described above in the aggregate amount of approximately $60 million to $80 million pre-tax (approximately $38 million to $51 million after tax).   The total expected additional charges include approximately $25 million to $35 million in costs associated with additional employee compensation and approximately $35 million to $45 million in other costs principally relating to the termination of certain real property leases.
   
 
 Substantially all of the reengineering activities are expected to be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of2011.  The Company estimates that all of the severance and employee-related costs and the expected lease termination costs will result in future cash expenditures.
   
 
 
 
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition and
Item 7.01    Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 On January 19, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing, among other things, expected fourth quarter and full year 2010 earnings.
   
 
 The Company also announced that it expects the charges recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010 and to be recorded during 2011 to result in annualized cost savings to the Company of approximately$70 million, starting in 2012.  The Company announced that it intends to reinvest a portion of such savings into new servicing capabilities and other business building initiatives.
   
 
 
 
 
-2-
 
 A copy of the Company's press release announcing the Companys expected fourth quarter and full year 2010 earnings and the reengineering initiatives described above is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
   
 
   
 
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
 This report includes forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties.  Forward-looking statements contain words such as believe, expect, estimate, anticipate, optimistic, intend, plan, aim, will, may, should, could, would, likely and similar expressions.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made.  The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following:  adjustments arising in the normal course of completing the company's fourth quarter and year-end financial closing process; the possibility of not achieving the expected timing and financial impact (including costs, cost savings and other benefits) of reengineering initiatives being implemented or considered by the Company, which could be caused by factors such as the unpredictability of negotiations with landlords with respect to those Company facilities being consolidated and underestimating hiring needs related to some of the job positions being eliminated; and the possible decision by the Company not to reinvest benefits arising from its  reengineering actions in its businesses due to potential financial challenges in 2011 or thereafter.  A further description of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2010, and the Company's other reports filed with the SEC.
   
 
 
 
-3-
 
 
Date:  January 19, 2011
 
 
 
-4-
 
 
 
                   
   
 
 
 
-5-
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
Release   News Release   News Release   News Release   News Release   News Release   News Release
   
   
   
   
 
[LOGO OF AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY]   
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
New York, NY, January 19, 2011  American Express said today that it will recognize fourth quarter restructuring and other reengineering charges of $113 million ($74 million after-tax, or $.06 per share).  The charges primarily reflect severance-related payments associated with a decision to consolidate locations within the Companys global servicing network.
 
As part of the consolidation, a facility in Greensboro, North Carolina, will be closed; work currently handled there will be transferred to other locations in the U.S.  Subject to local consultations, the company also plans to transfer work currently handled at a Madrid, Spain, service center to facilities in Brighton, U.K., and Buenos Aires, Argentina, and service support for the Japanese card business from Sydney, Australia to Japan.
 
The overall reengineering initiatives are expected to generate additional charges in 2011 of $60 to $80 million ($38 to $51 million after- tax).  Those charges would reflect costs associated with future closings of the real estate facilities and additional employee compensation during the transition period.
 
The consolidations, along with the reengineering initiatives reflected in the charges, are expected to deliver annualized savings of approximately $70 million, starting in 2012.  A portion of those savings are expected to be reinvested into new servicing capabilities and other business building initiatives.
 
Overall staffing levels are expected to decline by about 550 positions, net.  However, because the reengineering initiatives involve relocating work to different locations, approximately 3,500 existing positions would be impacted.
The consolidations are not expected to be substantially completed until year end 2011 in order to help affected employees make the transition and to ensure the continuation of uninterrupted customer service.
 
The companys decision reflects an overall decline in service volumes as more and more routine transactions have migrated to online and mobile channels. Staffing levels have declined to reflect those lower volumes, largely by not filling positions that opened up when employees leave.  The reduced staffing levels have created significant vacancy levels in some facilities and, as a result, real-estate-related costs are inconsistent with anticipated needs.
 
 
-1-
 
After recognizing the fourth quarter charges, American Express expects to report quarterly net income of $1.1 billion, or $.88 per common share. This would represent an increase of 48 percent from $716 million, or $.60 per share, a year ago.
 
Excluding the charges, fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share is expected to be $.94 per share.
1
 
Strong growth across all business segments helped raise fourth quarter and 2010 cardmember spending to record levels. said Kenneth I. Chenault, chairman and chief executive officer.
 
Despite an uneven economic environment, credit quality trends also continued to improve with key indicators for the quarter now back to  or better than  historical levels.  This improved credit quality translated into lower provision expenses for the quarter.
 
In addition to generating strong earnings growth, the underlying performance during the quarter provided an opportunity to continue to make significant investments in business-building initiatives. The ability to capitalize on market opportunities and generate additional Cardmember spending has positioned us well for the next phase of the economic recovery.
 
Fourth quarter and 2010 results will be released, as scheduled, on January 24, 2011.
 
 
Management believes the adjusted earnings per share, which is a non-GAAP measure, provides a useful metric to evaluate the ongoing operating performance of the company.
1
 
 
 
-2-
 
 
About American Express
American Express is a global services company, providing customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success.  Learn more at www.americanexpress.com and connect with us on www.facebook.com/americanexpress, www.twitter.com/americanexpress and .
www.youtube.com/americanexpress
 
CONTACTS:
 
Joanna Lambert, , +1.212.640.9668;
Media Contacts:
 
joanna.g.lambert@aexp.com
Mike ONeill, , +1.212.640.5951
mike.oneill@aexp
.com
 
Toby Willard, , +1.212.640.1958; Ron Stovall, . +1.212.640.5574
Investors/Analysts Contacts
:
sherwood.s.willardjr@aexp.com
ronald.stovall@aexp.com
 
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release includes forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements contain words such as believe, expect, estimate, anticipate, optimistic, intend, plan, aim, will, may, should, could, would, likely and similar expressions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: adjustments arising in the normal course of completing the company's fourth quarter and year-end financial closing process; the possibility of not achieving the expected timing and financial impact (including costs, cost savings and other benefits) of reengineering initiatives being implemented or considered by the Company, which could be caused by factors such as the unpredictability of negotiations with landlords with respect to those Company facilities being consolidated and underestimating hiring needs related to some of the job positions being eliminated; and the possible decision by the Company not to reinvest benefits arising from its reengineering actions in its businesses due to potential financial challenges in 2011 or thereafter. A further description of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2010, and the Company's other reports filed with the SEC.
 
 
 
-3-
 


