FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20121001121329.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure 
 
The following information is furnished under Item 7.01 - Regulation FD Disclosure:
On October 1, 2012, American Express Company (the Company) announced that it has reached settlements with several regulatory agencies to resolve previously disclosed reviews of certain aspects of the Companys U.S. consumer card practices. Similar settlements were reached with several of the Companys subsidiaries, including American Express Centurion Bank, American Express Bank, FSB and American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. A copy of the press release containing this announcement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT
                      
99.1
American Express Company Press Release, dated October 1, 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:   October 1, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-4-
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
News Release News Release News Release News Release News Release News Release
   
   
   
   
   
   
Contacts:
Marina Norville, , +1.212.640.2832
marina.h.norville@aexp.com
Mike ONeill,
mike.oneill@aexp
.com
, +1.212.640.5951
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
American Express Company today announced that it has reached settlements with several regulatory agencies to resolve previously disclosed reviews of certain aspects of the companys U.S. consumer card practices.
NEW YORK, October 1, 2012
Similar settlements were reached with several of the companys subsidiaries, including American Express Centurion Bank; American Express Bank, FSB; and American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.  The settlements were signed with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB), Office of Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), and Utah Department of Financial Institutions (UDFI).
As described in their consent orders, the regulators cited violations including those relating to certain aspects of debt collection practices, credit card solicitations, late fee charges, the reporting of disputes to credit bureaus and new account approval processes.
American Express has developed remediation plans for each of the cited violations and agreed to pay fines totaling $27.5 million.  In accordance with the consent orders, the company, through its subsidiaries, will establish funds totaling $85 million for customer refunds. The majority of those refunds are related to debt collection practices and late fee charges.  Impacted customers will be notified as soon as possible.
American Express has cooperated fully with the FDIC, CFPB, FRB, OCC, and UDFI.   The company is strengthening its internal compliance processes and will continue to work closely with its regulators.
Reserves were established in previous quarters for a substantial portion of these fines and the estimated cardmember refunds.  Separately, the company is continuing its own internal reviews and is also cooperating with regulators in their ongoing regulatory examination of add-on products in accordance with an industry-wide review.
About American Express
American Express is a global services company, providing customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success.  Learn more at and connect with us on , , , , and .
americanexpress.com
facebook.com/americanexpress
foursquare.com/americanexpress
linkedin.com/companies/american-express
twitter.com/americanexpress
youtube.com/americanexpress
Key links to products and services:  , , , , , , , and
charge and credit cards
business credit cards
travel services
gift cards
prepaid cards
merchant services
business travel
corporate card
 
 
 
 


