FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20120315121226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
American Express Company (the Company) is hereby furnishing below delinquency and write-off statistics for the lending portfolio of its U.S. Card Services (USCS) operating segment for the months ended December 31, 2011 and January 31 and February 29, 2012.
 
:  The statistics presented above are based on the USCS operating segments total portfolio of cardmember loans determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which includes all securitized and non-securitized cardmember loans.
Note
 
The statistics presented above provide information that is additional to the data reported by the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the Lending Trust) in its monthly Form 10-D report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission).  The cardmember loans that have been securitized through the Lending Trust do not possess identical characteristics with those of the total portfolio of USCS loans, which reflects the aggregate of securitized and non-securitized loans.  Thus, the reported credit performance of the Lending Trust may, on a month-to-month basis, be better or worse than the credit performance of the total portfolio.  Reported differences may arise as a result of, among other things, differences in the mix and vintage of loans between the Lending Trust and the total portfolio (including, among other things, the larger proportion of small business loans in the non-securitized portion of the total portfolio), the number of days in the reporting period covered by the Form 10-D being filed by the Lending Trust, the use of end-of-period principal loan balances to calculate write-off statistics in the Lending Trust compared to the use of average loan balances over the reporting period used in the total portfolio statistics, as well as other mechanics of the calculation for the lending trust net write-off rate, which is impacted by any additions to the securitization trust within a particular period.  In addition, the reporting period for the total portfolio is based on a calendar month, as compared to the reporting period covered by the Form 10-D reports for the Lending Trust, which is generally based on a monthly period beginning on or around the 25th day of each calendar month.
 
- 1 -
 
 
Set forth below is certain information regarding the credit performance of the Lending Trust for its three most recent monthly reporting periods, as reported in its Form 10-D report filed with respect to each such period.
 
 
(Billions, except percentages)
 
 
- 2 -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
- 3 -


