FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20120720090339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
      
      
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(d)           On July 19, 2012, the Board of Directors of American Express Company (the "Company") elected Daniel  L. Vasella, M.D. as a director of the Company.  Dr. Vasella will serve as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee. A copy of the press release announcing the election of Dr. Vasella is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Dr. Vasella is affiliated with a number of companies with whom the Company had entered into ordinary course business relationships prior to his becoming a director and with whom the Company may enter into additional ordinary course relationships from time to time, including ordinary course merchant relationships pursuant to which these companies accept the Companys charge and credit card products and pay the Company fees when their customers use these cards. From time to time, the Company may enter joint marketing or other relationships with one or more of these companies in the ordinary course that encourage their customers to apply for and use the Companys cards. The Company may also provide ordinary course Corporate Card or travel services to some of these companies for which these companies pay fees to the Company. The Company may engage in other commercial transactions with these companies and pay or receive fees in those transactions.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
-2-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATE:  July 20, 2012
 
 
 
-3-
 
 
-4-
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
                   
                   
 
 
FOR RELEASE
IMMEDIATE
American Express Company today announced that Daniel L. Vasella, M.D., Chairman of Novartis, has been elected to its Board of Directors.
NEW YORK, July 20, 2012
 
As CEO, and now as chairman, Dan has helped to build one of the worlds most respected companies.  Under his leadership, Novartis was transformed into a global leader that attracts outstanding talent and sets the standard for the healthcare industry.  His business expertise, global perspective and track record of successfully adapting to rapidly changing markets will make him a terrific addition to our board of directors, said Kenneth I. Chenault, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, American Express.
Dr. Vasella served as Chief Executive Officer and executive member of the Board of Directors for 14 years following the merger that created Novartis in 1996. Dr. Vasella was appointed Chairman of Novartis in April 1999. Before the Novartis merger, Dr. Vasella was CEO of Sandoz Pharma Ltd. and a member of the Sandoz Group Executive Committee. From 1988 to 1992, he was with Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation in the United States, prior to which he held a number of medical positions in Switzerland.
Dr. Vasella is a member of the board of directors of PepsiCo, Inc. He is also a member of the International Board of Governors of the Peres Center for Peace in Israel, the International Business Leaders Advisory Council for the Mayor of Shanghai, and is a foreign honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He is also a member of the Board of Trustees of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. In addition, Dr. Vasella serves as a member of several industry associations and educational institutions.
He graduated with an M.D. from the University of Bern in Switzerland and completed executive training at the Harvard Business School in the United States. He was also awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Basel.
About American Express
American Express is a global services company, providing customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success.  Learn more at and connect with us on , , , , and .
americanexpress.com
facebook.com/americanexpress
foursquare.com/americanexpress
linkedin.com/companies/american-express
twitter.com/americanexpress
youtube.com/americanexpress
Key links to products and services:  , , , , , , , and
charge and credit cards
business credit cards
travel services
gift cards
prepaid cards
merchant services
business travel
corporate card


