FILE:AXP/AXP-8K-20120503172817.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
           
(e)
As described under Item 5.07 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of American Express Company (the Company) held on April 30, 2012, the Companys shareholders approved the performance goals and award limits under the Companys 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan (the 2007 Plan). A description of the 2007 Plan is contained in the Companys definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 19, 2012 under the heading Item 4Approval of Performance Goals and Award Limits Under 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan and is incorporated herein by reference, and a copy of the 2007 Plan is attached to that proxy statement as Annex B and is also incorporated herein by reference.
         
           
 a)
The annual meeting of the shareholders of American Express Company (the Company) was held on April 30, 2012.  The matters that were voted upon at the meeting, and the number of votes cast for or against, as well as the number of abstentions and broker non-votes, as to each such matter, where applicable, are set forth below.
 
 
(b)
 
           
1.
Election of Directors.
 
 
 
In a contested election, the Director nominees who receive the plurality of votes cast are elected as Directors. Under the plurality standard, the number of persons equal to the number of vacancies to be filled who receive more votes than other nominees are elected to the Board of Directors (the Board), regardless of whether they receive a majority of votes cast.  An election is considered contested under Section 6.3 of the Companys certificate of incorporation if there are more nominees than positions on the Board to be filled at the meeting of shareholders as of the fourteenth day prior to the date on which the Company files its definitive proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  For the election of Directors at the annual meeting of shareholders, based on a shareholder notice that the Company had received, there were more nominees than the number of Directors to be elected, and therefore, plurality voting governed the election of directors.
 
 
The shareholders elected all 12 of the Companys nominees for director. Mr. Peter W. Lindner, a shareholder who nominated himself under the Companys By-Laws as a candidate for director at the 2012 Annual Meeting, was not elected as a director of the Company.
 
 
All 12 of the Companys nominees for director received over a majority of votes cast.
 
 
           
 2.
Votes regarding ratification of appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2012 were as follows:
 
 
 
           
3.
Votes regarding an advisory (non-binding) vote approving executive compensation were as follows:
 
 
 
           
4.
Votes regarding approval of performance goals and award limits under 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan were as follows:
 
 
 
           
5.
Votes on a shareholder proposal presented at the meeting relating to separation of Chairman and CEO roles were as follows:
 
 
 
           
6.
Votes on a shareholder proposal introduced from the floor by Mr. Peter W. Lindner relating to the American Express Code of Conduct were as follows:
 
 
 
The shareholder proposal relating to cumulative voting for Directors was not presented at the meeting.
 
         
 
 
-2-
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  May 3, 2012
 
 
-3-
 
 
 
 
-4-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


