FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20050915161606.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On September 15, 2005, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended September 2, 2005. A copy of this press release is furnished and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this report and the exhibit attached hereto are being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Exhibits
(c)
         
 
99.1         Press release dated September 15, 2005
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Investor Relations Contact: Mike Saviage Adobe Systems Incorporated 408-536-4416 ir@adobe.com
 
Public Relations Contact: Holly Campbell Adobe Systems Incorporated 408-536-6401 campbell@adobe.com
 
Adobe Systems Reports Strong Q3 Financial Results
 
Creative Suite and Acrobat Adoption Drive 21 Percent Year-Over-Year Revenue Growth
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  September 15, 2005
 Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended September 2, 2005.
 
In the third quarter of fiscal 2005, Adobe achieved revenue of $487.0 million, compared to $403.7 million reported for the third quarter of fiscal 2004, and $496.0 million reported in the second quarter of fiscal 2005.  On a year-over-year basis, this represents 21 percent revenue growth.  Adobe's third quarter revenue target range was $470 to $490 million.
 
"Solid execution drove another outstanding quarter of double digit growth in Q3," said Bruce Chizen, Adobe chief executive officer. "These results reflect the overall strength of our business which, when combined with our pending acquisition of Macromedia, will position us for even greater success in the future."
 
GAAP diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2005 were $0.29. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, which excludes investment losses, also were $0.29.
 
GAAP net income was $144.9 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2005, compared to $104.5 million reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2004, and $149.8 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2005.  Non-GAAP net income, which excludes, as applicable, the net tax impact of the planned repatriation of certain foreign earnings, and investment losses, was $146.4 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2005, compared to $105.6 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2004, and $142.9 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2005.
 
GAAP diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2005 were $0.29 based on 507.8 million weighted average shares. This compares with GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.21 reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2004, based on 494.2 million weighted average shares, and GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.29 reported in the second quarter of fiscal 2005, based on 508.2 million weighted average shares.
 
Adobe's GAAP and non-GAAP operating income was $183.6 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, compared to $140.3 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2004 and $182.2 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2005.  On a year-over-year basis, this represents 31 percent GAAP and non-GAAP operating income growth.  As a percent of revenue, GAAP and non-GAAP operating income in the third quarter of fiscal 2005 were 37.7 percent, compared to 34.8 percent in the third quarter of fiscal 2004 and 36.7 percent in the second quarter of fiscal 2005.
 
Adobe Gives Update on Status of Macromedia Acquisition
 
On August 24, 2005, Adobe and Macromedia stockholders overwhelmingly voted in favor of Adobe's proposed acquisition of Macromedia.  Adobe commented today that the integration planning process between the two companies continues to go well, and anticipates the transaction will close in Fall 2005, subject to appropriate regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other closing conditions.
 
Adobe is maintaining a Website as an ongoing source of information regarding the Macromedia acquisition at http://www.adobe.com/aboutadobe/invrelations/adobeandmacromedia.html.
 
Adobe Provides Fourth Quarter Financial Targets
 
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, Adobe announced it is targeting revenue of $490 million to $510 million, which represents approximately 14 to 19 percent year-over-year growth.  The Company also is targeting gross margin of approximately 94 percent, and GAAP and non-GAAP operating margin ranges of approximately 35 to 36 percent.
 
As a percent of revenue, Adobe is targeting fourth quarter expenses as follows:
 
Research & Development  approximately 20 percent Sales & Marketing  approximately 29 to 30 percent General & Administrative  approximately 9 percent
 
In addition, Adobe is targeting its share count range to be between 509 million and 511 million shares in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005.  The Company also is targeting other income in its fourth quarter to be approximately $11 million to $12 million, and a tax rate of 25 percent.  These targets lead to fourth quarter GAAP and non-GAAP earnings per share target ranges of $0.27 to $0.29.
 
Adobe currently believes targeted non-GAAP earnings per share and non-GAAP operating margin results will not differ materially from targeted GAAP results.
 
These targets do not factor in the pending acquisition of Macromedia.
Forward Looking Statements Disclosure
 
This press release contains forward looking statements, including those related to revenue, product releases, gross margin, operating expenses, operating margin, other income, tax rate, share count, earnings per share, and timing of the Macromedia acquisition and related integration, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which Adobe does business, delays in development or shipment of the Company's new products or major new versions of existing products, introduction of new products by existing and new competitors, failure to successfully manage transitions to new business models or markets, failure to anticipate and develop new products in response to changes in demand for application software, computers and printers, intellectual property disputes and litigation, failure to realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and difficulty in integrating such acquisitions, changes to the Company's distribution channel, the impact of malicious code, such as worms and viruses, on the Company's computer network and applications, interruptions or terminations in the Company's relationships with turnkey assemblers, risks associated with international operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in accounting rules and regulations, unanticipated changes in tax rates, market risks associated with the Company's equity investments, and the Company's inability to attract and retain key personnel. For further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, individuals should refer to the Company's SEC filings, including the 2004 annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed in 2005. The Company does not undertake an obligation to update forward looking statements.
 
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
 
Adobe is the world's leading provider of software solutions to create, manage and deliver high-impact, reliable digital content. For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
 
###
 
 2005 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe, Adobe Creative Suite, Adobe Acrobat, and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
(In thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited)
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited)
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands)
(Unaudited)
 
 
Non-GAAP Results
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
The following table shows Adobe's non-GAAP results reconciled to GAAP results included in this release.
 
 
Adobe continues to provide all information required in accordance with GAAP, but it believes that evaluating its ongoing operating results may not be as useful if an investor is limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures.  Accordingly, Adobe uses non-GAAP financial information to evaluate its ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes.  Adobe's management does not itself, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Adobe presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate Adobe's operating results in a manner that focuses on what Adobe believes to be its ongoing business operations.  Adobe's management believes it is useful for itself and investors to review both GAAP information that includes the investment gains and losses and the net tax impact of the planned repatriation of certain foreign earnings discussed below, and the non-GAAP measures that exclude such information in order to assess the performance of Adobe's business and for planning and forecasting in subsequent periods.
 
In accordance with GAAP, Adobe incurs investment gains and losses from its venture program.  These charges are otherwise unrelated to Adobe's ongoing business operations and are excluded from its non-GAAP financial information.
 
Also, in accordance with GAAP, Adobe included the net tax impact of the planned repatriation of certain foreign earnings.  This tax impact is not indicative of Adobe's ongoing business operations and thus is excluded from its non-GAAP financial information.
 


