FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20050118112303.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
(c) On January 17, 2005, Adobe Systems Incorporated announced that Shantanu Narayen was named President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Narayen joined Adobe in January 1998 as Vice President and General Manager of Adobe's engineering technology group. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Products in January 1999, and to Executive Vice President, Worldwide Products in March 2001. Prior to joining Adobe, Mr. Narayen co-founded Pictra Inc., a digital photo sharing software company, in 1996. He was Director of Desktop and Collaboration products at Silicon Graphics Inc. and held various senior manager positions at Apple Computer Inc. before founding Pictra.
 
In this new position, Mr. Narayen will continue to report to Bruce R. Chizen, who will remain as the company's Chief Executive Officer and a member of the company's Board.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the promotion is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Exhibits
(c)
         
 
99.1 Press release issued on January 17, 2005 entitled "Adobe Promotes Shantanu Narayen to President and Chief Operating Officer."
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Press/Analyst Contacts
Katie Juran Adobe Systems Incorporated 408-536-3588 kjuran@adobe.com
 
John Derryberry A&R Partners 650-762-2817 jderryberry@arpartners.com
 
Investor Relations Contact: Mike Saviage Adobe Systems Incorporated 408-536-4416 ir@adobe.com
 
Adobe Promotes Shantanu Narayen to President and Chief Operating Officer
 
Newly-created position supports growing business, expanded strategy
 
SAN JOSE, Calif. Jan. 17, 2005
Adobe Systems Inc. (Nasdaq: ADBE) today announced the promotion of Shantanu Narayen, 41, to the newly created position of president and chief operating officer.
 
In his new position, Narayen continues to report to Adobe chief executive officer Bruce Chizen and is responsible for engineering, product marketing and sales of Adobe's software solutions for creative professional, consumer and enterprise customers. He previously was executive vice president, worldwide products, a position he has held since 2001.
 
"During the past three years, Shantanu has worked closely with me running the day-to-day operations of Adobe's global business," said Chizen. "Under his leadership, Adobe has defined and implemented the product and marketing strategies that are driving our current growth. As Adobe continues expanding into the enterprise and other new market areas, I will increase my focus on the longer term strategies that will fuel the company's future growth."
 
Before becoming executive vice president of worldwide products, Narayen was senior vice president of worldwide product development, where he successfully oversaw all worldwide research and development for Adobe's award-winning products. He also held positions as vice president and general manager of Adobe's engineering technology group where he helped grow the Adobe India development center and started the Product Technology Integration Group to focus on customer workflows.
 
Before joining Adobe in 1998, Narayen co-founded Pictra Inc., a digital photo sharing software business. Previously, he was director of desktop and collaboration products at Silicon Graphics Inc. and, before that, held various senior management positions at Apple Computer, Inc.
Narayen, who holds five patents, has a bachelor's degree in electronics engineering from Osmania University in India, and a master's degree in computer science from Bowling Green State University. He also holds a master's degree from the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley, where he currently serves on the Advisory board
 
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
 
Adobe is the world's leading provider of software solutions to create, manage and deliver high-impact, reliable digital content. For more information, visit
www.adobe.com.
 
###
 
 
 2005 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe, the Adobe logo, are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


