FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20050901111639.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officer; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On September 1, 2005, Adobe Systems Incorporated announced that Edward W. Barnholt has been elected as a new member of Adobe's Board of Directors. Mr. Barnholt fills a vacancy created by an increase in the size of the Board of Directors from nine to ten. Mr. Barnholt will be a Class I director, with a term of office expiring at Adobe's 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Mr. Barnholt has not yet been named to any committee of Adobe's Board of Directors. Adobe expects that its Board of Directors will consider Mr. Barnholt's committee assignment at its next upcoming Board meeting.
 
A copy of Adobe's press release announcing Mr. Barnholt's election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Exhibits
(c)
         
 
Press release dated September 1, 2005.
99.1
        
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Press/Analyst Contacts
 
Jodi Warner
Adobe Systems Incorporated
408-536-2084
jwarner@adobe.com
 
Cynthia Fetty
A&R Partners
650-762-2872
cfetty@arpartners.com
 
Mike Saviage
Adobe Systems Incorporated
408-536-4416
ir@adobe.com
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Ned Barnholt Joins Adobe Board of Directors
 
Former Agilent Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Brings Broad Strategic Perspective, Operational Expertise
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  Sept. 1, 2005
 Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today announced the appointment of Edward W. (Ned) Barnholt, retired chairman, president and chief executive officer of Agilent Technologies, to the company's board of directors.  Barnholt's appointment is effective immediately, expanding Adobe's board membership from nine to 10 directors.
 
"Ned is an accomplished leader whose wealth of business experience will be a great complement to our board's existing expertise. We're delighted to welcome him as our newest board member," said Bruce Chizen, Adobe chief executive officer.
 
Barnholt said, "I am very pleased to join Adobe's board.  I have great respect for this company and its innovative products, and look forward to working with the board and management team."
 
Barnholt retired from his post as Agilent's top executive in March 2005.  As Agilent's chairman, president and chief executive officer, he led the company's four business sectors  Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis, Semiconductor Products, Test and Measurement and Automated Test  and was responsible for guiding Agilent through its spin-off from Hewlett-Packard in 1999.
 
Barnholt received bachelor's and master's degrees in electrical engineering from Stanford University.  He serves on the boards of KLA-Tencor, eBay and the Silicon Valley Leadership (SVLG) Group.
 
Other Adobe board members are: John E. Warnock, Adobe founder and co-chairman of the board; Charles M. Geschke, Adobe founder and co-chairman of the board; Michael R. Cannon, president, chief executive officer and director, Solectron Corporation; Bruce R. Chizen, chief executive officer, Adobe; James E. Daley, independent consultant, formerly executive vice president and chief financial officer of Electronic Data Systems; Carol Mills, executive vice president and general manager, Infrastructure Products Group, Juniper Networks; Colleen M. Pouliot,
attorney in private practice, formerly senior vice president and general counsel at Adobe; Robert Sedgewick, professor of computer science and founding chairman of the Department of Computer Science, Princeton University;  and Delbert W. Yocam, independent consultant, formerly chairman and chief executive officer of Borland Software Corporation.
 
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
 
Adobe is the world's leading provider of software solutions to create, manage and deliver high-impact, reliable digital content. For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
 
###
 
 2005 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


