FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20051212162824.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
(a) Amendment to Employment Agreement with Director
 
On December 7, 2005, Adobe Systems Incorporated (""),  Adobe Macromedia Software LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Adobe (formerly Macromedia, Inc., "") and Robert K. Burgess, a member of the board of directors of Adobe, entered into an amendment (the "") to the amended and restated employment agreement by and between Macromedia and Mr. Burgess, dated January 21, 2005 (the "").  A copy of the Prior Agreement is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.1 to this Report and incorporated herein by reference.
Adobe
Macromedia
Amendment
Prior Agreement
 
Pursuant to the Amendment, the parties agreed that any payments which may be due to Mr. Burgess in connection with Mr. Burgess's termination of employment and which may be subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A ("") shall be delayed until the earliest date necessary to enable such payments to be made without incurring an excise tax under Section 409A.
Section 409A
 
The summary of material terms of the Amendment set forth above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
* Reference for Exhibit 10.1 is to a filing made by Macromedia, Inc.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
* Reference for Exhibit 10.1 is to a filing made by Macromedia, Inc.

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
This Amendment To Employment Agreement ("Amendment") is made and entered into by and among Robert K. Burgess ("Executive"), on the one hand, and Adobe Systems Incorporated (the "Company"), the new parent company of Adobe Macromedia Software LLC (formerly Macromedia, Inc.) ("Macromedia"), and Macromedia, on the other hand.  Executive and Macromedia are parties to an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement of January 19, 2005 (the "Agreement").  The parties now wish to amend the Agreement on the terms set forth herein.
 
1.             In recognition of the fact that Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code may prohibit the payment of certain benefits in connection with Executive's "separation from service" earlier than six (6) months following Executive's termination of employment, a new Section 10.7 designed to ensure the Agreement complies with the requirements of Section 409A is added to the Agreement to read in its entirety as follows:
 
"10.7  .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, any payments that may be subject to Internal Revenue Code ("Code") Section 409A and due Executive in connection with Executive's termination of employment shall be delayed until the earliest date necessary to enable such payments to be made without incurring an excise tax under Code Section 409A."
Compliance
With Section 409A
 
2.             Except as modified by this Amendment, the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
 
 
 


