FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20060322165109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
     
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On March 22, 2006, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for its first fiscal quarter ended March 3, 2006. A copy of this press release is furnished and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this report and the exhibit attached hereto are being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Exhibits
(d)
  
 
Press release dated March 22, 2006
99.1
        
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Adobe Reports Record Q1 Financial Results
 
Strong Performance Driven by Creative Solutions and Adobe Acrobat
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  March 22, 2006
 Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today reported record financial results for its first quarter ended March 3, 2006. The Company's Q1 results reflect the recent acquisition of Macromedia, and are compared to pre-acquisition results of prior fiscal periods.
 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, Adobe achieved record revenue of $655.5 million, compared to $472.9 million reported for the first quarter of fiscal 2005 and $510.4 million reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. On a year-over-year basis, this represents 39 percent revenue growth. Adobe's first quarter revenue target range was $630 to $660 million.
 
"Adobe's business continues to perform well, driven by strong demand for our creative solutions and Acrobat," said Bruce R. Chizen, Adobe chief executive officer. "In addition to our strong financial results, we are making rapid progress integrating the Macromedia business and remain excited about our prospects for future growth."
 
GAAP diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 were $0.17. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, which excludes Macromedia acquisition costs, restructuring charges related to the Macromedia acquisition, a charge for incomplete technology related to a small acquisition, stock-based compensation, the net tax impact of the repatriation of certain foreign earnings, tax differences due to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia acquisition costs and related charges and stock-based compensation, and investment gains and losses, were $0.32.
 
GAAP net income was $105.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2006, compared to $151.9 million reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2005, and $156.3 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Non-GAAP net income, which excludes, as applicable, Macromedia acquisition costs, restructuring charges related to the Macromedia acquisition, a charge for incomplete technology related to a small acquisition, stock-based compensation, the net tax impact of the repatriation of certain foreign earnings, tax differences due to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia acquisition costs and related charges and stock-based compensation, and investment gains and losses, was $197.5 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2006, compared to $133.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2005, and $151.5 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005.
 
GAAP diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 were $0.17 based on 621.8 million weighted average shares. This compares with GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.30 reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2005, based on 506.2 million weighted average shares, and GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.31 reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, based on 508.6 million weighted average shares.
 
Adobe's GAAP operating income was $130.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, compared to $170.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 and $191.9 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. As a percent of revenue, GAAP operating income in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 was 19.8 percent, compared to 36.1 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 and 37.6 percent in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.
 
Adobe's non-GAAP operating income, which excludes, as applicable, Macromedia acquisition costs, restructuring charges related to the Macromedia acquisition, a charge for incomplete technology related to a small acquisition, and stock-based compensation was $252.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, compared to $170.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 and $191.9 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. As a percent of revenue, non-GAAP operating income in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 was 38.5 percent, compared to 36.1 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 and 37.6 percent in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005.
 
Adobe Provides Second Quarter FY2006 Financial Targets and Reaffirms FY2006 Annual Revenue Target
 
For the second quarter of fiscal 2006, Adobe announced it is targeting revenue of $640 million to $670 million. The Company also is targeting a GAAP operating margin of approximately 22 to 24 percent in the second quarter. On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes acquisition-related costs and stock-based compensation, the Company is targeting a second quarter operating margin of approximately 37 to 38 percent.
 
In addition, Adobe is targeting its share count to be between 620 million and 622 million shares in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. The Company also is targeting other income in its second quarter to be approximately $15 million to $16 million, with a GAAP tax rate of 27 percent and a non-GAAP tax rate of 26 percent. The difference between the two rates is related to the timing and deductibillity of the Macromedia acquisition and related charges and stock-based compensation.
 
These targets lead to a second quarter GAAP earnings per share target range of approximately $0.18 to $0.21. On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes acquisition-related costs, stock-based compensation, and tax differences related to the timing and deductibillity of the Macromedia acquisition and related charges and stock-based compensation, the Company is targeting earnings per share of approximately $0.30 to $0.32.
 
For fiscal year 2006, Adobe reaffirmed its annual revenue target of approximately $2.7 billion.
Forward Looking Statements Disclosure
 
This press release contains forward looking statements, including those related to revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, operating margin, other income, tax rate, share count and earnings per share, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which Adobe does business, delays in development or shipment of Adobe's new products or major new versions of existing products, introduction of new products by existing and new competitors, failure to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, difficulty in predicting revenue from new businesses, failure to anticipate and develop new products in response to changes in demand for application software, computers and printers, intellectual property disputes and litigation, inability to protect Adobe's intellectual property from unauthorized copying, use, disclosure or malicious attack, failure to realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and difficulty in integrating such acquisitions, changes to Adobe's distribution channel, disruption of Adobe's business due to catastrophic events, interruptions or terminations in Adobe's relationships with turnkey assemblers, risks associated with international operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in accounting rules and regulations, impairment of Adobe's goodwill or intangible assets, unanticipated changes in tax rates, Adobe's inability to attract and retain key personnel, and market risks associated with Adobe's equity investments. For further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, individuals should refer to Adobe's SEC filings. Adobe does not undertake an obligation to update forward looking statements.
 
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
 
Adobe revolutionizes how the world engages with ideas and information  anytime, anywhere, and through any medium. For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
 
###
 
 2006 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe, Adobe Acrobat and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands; unaudited)
 
Non-GAAP Results
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
The following table shows Adobe's non-GAAP results reconciled to GAAP results included in this release.
 
* See table below for classification on the Consolidated Statements of Income.
 
The following table shows the Company's classification of stock-based compensation, acquisition-related costs and amortization of deferred compensation on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the quarter ended March 3, 2006.
(a) relates to Macromedia acquisition.
(b) charge for incomplete technology related to small acquisition.
 
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP operating expenses as a percent of revenue and effective tax rate for the quarter ended March 3, 2006.
 
 
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP operating expenses for the quarter ended March 3, 2006.
 
 
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP gross margin for the quarter ended March 3, 2006.
 
 
Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2006 Non-GAAP Financial Targets
 
The following table shows Adobe's non-GAAP financial targets reconciled to GAAP financial targets included in this release.
 
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of the non-GAAP effective tax rate reconciled to the GAAP effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2006.
 
 
Adobe continues to provide all information required in accordance with GAAP, but it believes that evaluating its ongoing operating results may not be as useful if an investor is limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures. Accordingly, Adobe uses non-GAAP financial information to evaluate its ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. Adobe's management does not itself, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Adobe presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate Adobe's operating results in a manner that focuses on what Adobe believes to be its ongoing business operations. Adobe's management believes it is useful for itself and investors to review, as applicable,  both GAAP information that includes the stock compensation impact of SFAS 123R, restructuring and other charges, acquisition-related costs, amortization of deferred compensation,  investment gains and losses, tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia acquisition and related charges and stock-based compensation, the net tax impact of the repatriation of certain foreign earnings, discussed below, and the non-GAAP measures that exclude such information in order to assess the performance of Adobe's business and for planning and forecasting in subsequent periods. Whenever Adobe uses such a non-GAAP financial measure, it provides a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most closely applicable GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure as detailed above.
 
For the first and second quarter of fiscal year 2006, Adobe's GAAP financial information and targets include the stock compensation impact of SFAS 123R, restructuring and other charges, acquisition-related costs, amortization of deferred compensation, and tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia acquisition and related charges and stock-based compensation. Also, in accordance with GAAP, Adobe incurs investment gains and losses from its venture program. These charges are otherwise unrelated to Adobe's ongoing business operations and are excluded from its non-GAAP financial information and targets.
 
In fiscal year 2005, Adobe included the net tax impact of the repatriation of certain foreign earnings. This tax impact is not indicative of Adobe's ongoing business operations and thus is excluded from its non-GAAP financial information.


