FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20060914161619.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Adobe Systems Incorporated
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On September 14, 2006, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended September 1, 2006. A copy of this press release is furnished and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report and the exhibit attached hereto are being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
The attached press release includes non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating expense, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate and forecasted non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP earnings per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. The Registrant believes that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with the Registrant's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate the Registrant's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, Adobe's management uses financial information that does not include: (a) the stock-based compensation impact of SFAS 123R, (b) restructuring and other charges,  (c) amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology, (d) amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation, (e) investment gains and losses, (f) tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia acquisition-related charges, and (g) tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of SFAS 123R stock-based compensation.  Adobe's management uses these non-GAAP financial measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Adobe's operational performance and gives us a better understanding of how we should invest in research and development and fund infrastructure and go-to-market strategies.  Management uses these measures to help it make budgeting decisions, for example, as between product development expenses and research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.
As described above, Adobe excludes the following items from one or more of its non-GAAP measures:
A..  These expenses consist of expenses for employee stock options and employee stock purchases under SFAS 123(R). Adobe excludes stock-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) in fiscal 2006, Adobe did not include expenses related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases directly in its financial statements, but elected, as permitted by SFAS 123, to disclose such expenses in the footnotes to its financial statements.  As Adobe applies SFAS 123(R), we believe that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of SFAS 123(R) to our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  While stock-based compensation expense calculated in accordance with SFAS 123(R) constitutes an ongoing and recurring expense, such expense is excluded from non-GAAP results because it is not an expense that typically requires or will require cash settlement by Adobe and because such expense is not used by management to assess the core profitability of our business
            Stock compensation impact of SFAS 123R
2
operations. We further believe these measures are useful to investors in that they allow for greater transparency to certain line items in our financial statements.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates comparisons to our competitors' operating results.
B..  Adobe incurred Board of Director approved restructuring charges associated with realigning its business upon the acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005.  These actions were taken to eliminate certain duplicative activities, focus our resources on future growth opportunities and reduce our cost structure.  In connection with the worldwide restructuring plan, Adobe recognized costs related to termination benefits for former Adobe employees whose positions were eliminated and for the closure of Adobe facilities.  We also recognized costs related to the cancellation of certain contracts held by Adobe.  Adobe excludes these items because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.  It is possible, however, that additional charges related to its facility leases may be incurred for various reasons including changes in cost estimates, the date the facility is vacated, subtenant leases, etc.
            Restructuring and other charges
C..  Adobe incurs amortization of purchased intangible assets primarily in connection with its acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005. Adobe also incurred charges related to incomplete technology in connection with small acquisitions. Purchased intangibles include (a) developed technology and (b) core technology and patents. Developed technology relates primarily to Macromedia products across all of Macromedia product lines that had reached technological feasibility as of December 2005. Core technology and patents represent primarily a combination of Macromedia's processes, patents and trade secrets developed through years of experience in design and development of their products. We expect to amortize for accounting purposes the fair value of the purchased intangibles based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible assets will be consumed as revenue is generated.  Although, the intangible assets generate revenue for Adobe, we exclude this item because this expense is non-cash in nature and because we believe the non-GAAP financial measures excluding this item provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates management's internal comparisons to Adobe's historical operating results and comparisons to our competitors' operating results.
            Amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology
D..  Adobe is amortizing deferred compensation related to unvested options assumed in connection with its acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005. The deferred compensation is expected to be fully amortized by the end of fiscal 2007.  Adobe excludes these items because these expenses are non-cash in nature and because the non-GAAP financial measures which exclude this item provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance, liquidity, and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  We further believe that excluding this expense is useful to investors in that it allows for greater transparency to certain line items in our financial statements.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates management's internal comparisons to Adobe's historical operating results and comparisons to our competitors' operating results.
            Amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation
E..  Adobe incurs investment gains and losses on the sale and exchange of equity securities that are held directly and also indirectly through investment partnerships. Adobe does not actively trade publicly-held securities nor does Adobe rely on these securities positions for funding its ongoing operations.  We exclude gains and losses on these equity securities because these items are unrelated to our ongoing business and operating results.
             Investment gains and losses
F.These amounts are independent and not reflective of Adobe's ongoing operating results and are excluded on such a basis consistent with the explanations provided above.
             Tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia acquisition-related charges. 
G..  These amounts are dependent on the trading price of Adobe's common stock and the timing and exercise by employees of their stock options. As such, they have no direct correlation to Adobe's
            Tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of SFAS 123R stock-based compensation
3
operation of its business.
Adobe believes that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with Adobe's financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate Adobe's financial results in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures and that is why Adobe qualifies the use of non-GAAP financial information in a statement when non-GAAP information is presented.
Adobe believes that where the adjustments used in calculating non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share are based on specific, identified amounts that impact different line items in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (including cost of revenue - products, cost of revenue  services and support, gross margin, operating expenses (including research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses), operating income and net income, net of tax) that it is useful to investors to understand how these specific line items in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income are affected by these adjustments for the following reasons:
A.. Excluding stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases from cost of revenue and gross margin calculations assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes without giving effect to these charges which are non-cash in nature. Excluding the impact from the amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation and the amortization of purchased intangibles assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes without giving effect to these charges which are a function of prior period acquisition transactions rather than the underlying operating activities of the period presented.
            Cost of revenue (products, services and support, and total) and gross margin
B. Excluding stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes in each line item of operating expenses without giving effect to these charges which are non-cash in nature.  Excluding the impact of (a) the amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation, (b) restructuring and other charges, and (c) the amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes to the affected line items in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income without giving effect to these charges which are a function of acquisition transactions rather than the underlying operating activities of the period presented.
            Operating expenses (including research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses).
C.. Excluding stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases from the calculation of operating income assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes without giving effect to these charges which are non-cash in nature.  Excluding the impact from (a) the amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation, (b) restructuring and other charges, and (c) the amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes without giving effect to these charges which are a function of acquisition transactions rather than the underlying operating activities of the period presented.
            Operating income
D. Excluding stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases from the calculation of net income assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes without giving effect to these charges which are non-cash in nature. Excluding the impact from (a) the amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation, (b) restructuring and other charges, and (c) the  amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology assists investors in evaluating period-over-period changes without giving effect to these charges which are a function of acquisition transactions rather than the underlying operating activities of the period presented. Excluding gains and losses on equity securities assists investors in evaluating changes in this measure without giving effect to transactions in equity securities which do not relate to the funding and performance of Adobe's ongoing operations.
            Net Income, Net of Tax Effect of Non-GAAP Adjustments.
E.. Excluding the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes assists investors in understanding the tax provision
             Effective Tax Rate
4
associated with those adjustments and the effective tax rate of Adobe related to its ongoing operations.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits
(d)
        
 
5
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
6
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
7

 
Exhibit 99.1
Investor Relations Contact: Mike Saviage Adobe Systems Incorporated 408-536-4416 ir@adobe.com
Public Relations Contact: Holly Campbell Adobe Systems Incorporated 408-536-6401
campbell@adobe.com
Adobe Reports Solid Third Quarter Financial Results
 
 
Company Achieves 24 Percent Year-Over-Year Revenue Growth
SAN JOSE, Calif.
September 14, 2006
Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended September 1, 2006.   The Company's Q3 results reflect the acquisition of Macromedia in December, 2005, and are compared to pre-acquisition results of prior fiscal periods as applicable.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2006, Adobe achieved revenue of $602.2 million, compared to $487.0 million reported for the third quarter of fiscal 2005 and $635.5 million reported in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. On a year-over-year basis, this represents 24 percent revenue growth.  Adobe's third quarter revenue target range was $580 to $610 million.
"Q3 was a solid quarter for Adobe with revenue and earnings near or above the high end of our financial target ranges," said Bruce R. Chizen, Adobe chief executive officer. "With new products launching this quarter, our outlook for the remainder of the year remains positive."
GAAP diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 were $0.16.  Adobe's third quarter GAAP EPS target range was $0.13 to $0.16.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, which excludes amortization of purchased intangibles, amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation, restructuring charges related to the Macromedia acquisition, a charge for incomplete technology related to a small acquisition, SFAS 123R stock-based compensation, tax differences due to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia acquisition-related charges and SFAS 123R stock-based compensation, and investment losses, were $0.29.  Adobe's third quarter non-GAAP EPS target range was $0.25 to $0.27.
GAAP net income was $94.4 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2006, compared to $144.9 million reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, and $123.1 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2006.  Non-GAAP net income, which excludes, as applicable, amortization of purchased intangibles, amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation, restructuring charges related to the Macromedia acquisition, a
 
charge for incomplete technology related to a small acquisition, SFAS 123R stock-based compensation, tax differences due to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia acquisition-related charges and SFAS 123R stock-based compensation, and investment gains and losses, was $171.5 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2006, compared to $146.4 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, and $189.4 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2006.
GAAP diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 were $0.16 based on 600.9 million weighted average shares. This compares with GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.29 reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, based on 507.8 million weighted average shares, and GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.20 reported in the second quarter of fiscal 2006, based on 613.8 million weighted average shares.
Adobe's GAAP operating income was $110.0 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2006, compared to $183.6 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2005 and $147.9 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. As a percent of revenue, GAAP operating income in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 was 18.3 percent, compared to 37.7 percent in the third quarter of fiscal 2005 and 23.3 percent in the second quarter of fiscal 2006.
Adobe's non-GAAP operating income, which excludes, as applicable, amortization of purchased intangibles, amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation,
restructuring charges related to the Macromedia acquisition, a charge for incomplete technology related to a small acquisition, and
SFAS 123R
stock-based compensation
was $207.2 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2006, compared to $183.6 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2005 and $243.1 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2006.  As a percent of revenue, non-GAAP operating income in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 was 34.4 percent, compared to 37.7 percent in the third quarter of fiscal 2005 and 38.3 percent in the second quarter of fiscal 2006.
Adobe Provides Fourth Quarter FY2006 Financial Targets
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, Adobe announced it is targeting revenue of $655 million to  $685 million.  The Company also is targeting a GAAP operating margin of approximately 21 to 24 percent in the fourth quarter.  On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes acquisition-related costs and SFAS 123R stock-based compensation, the Company is targeting a fourth quarter operating margin of approximately 37 to 38 percent.
In addition, Adobe is targeting its share count to be between 600 million and 602 million shares in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.  The Company also is targeting other income in its fourth quarter to be approximately $16 million to $18 million, with a GAAP and non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 26 percent.
These targets lead to a fourth quarter GAAP earnings per share target range of approximately $0.19 to $0.22.  On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes acquisition-related costs, SFAS 123R stock-based compensation, and tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia
2
 
acquisition-related charges and SFAS 123R stock-based compensation, the Company is targeting earnings per share of approximately $0.32 to $0.34.
Forward Looking Statements Disclosure
This press release contains forward looking statements, including those related to planned product releases, revenue, operating margin, other income, tax rate, share count and earnings per share, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which Adobe does business, delays in development or shipment of Adobe's new products or major new versions of existing products, introduction of new products by existing and new competitors, failure to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, difficulty in predicting revenue from new businesses, failure to anticipate and develop new products in response to changes in demand for application software, computers and printers, intellectual property disputes and litigation, inability to protect Adobe's intellectual property from unauthorized copying, use, disclosure or malicious attack, failure to realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and difficulty in integrating such acquisitions, changes to Adobe's distribution channel, disruption of Adobe's business due to catastrophic events, interruptions or terminations in Adobe's relationships with turnkey assemblers, risks associated with international operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations, impairment of Adobe's goodwill or intangible assets, unanticipated changes in tax rates, Adobe's inability to attract and retain key personnel, and market risks associated with Adobe's equity investments. For further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, individuals should refer to Adobe's SEC filings. Adobe does not undertake an obligation to update forward looking statements.
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
Adobe revolutionizes how the world engages with ideas and information
anytime, anywhere, and through any medium.  For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
###
 2006 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe, Macromedia, and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
3
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
 
4
 
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
5
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands; unaudited)
 
6
 
Non-GAAP Results
(In thousands, except per share data)
The following table shows Adobe's non-GAAP results reconciled to GAAP results included in this release.
See table below for classification on the Consolidated Statements of Income.
*
                   
7
 
The following table shows the Company's classification of SFAS 123R stock-based compensation, amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation, and amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the quarter ended September 1, 2006.
Relates to Macromedia acquisition
(a)
            
Charge for incomplete technology related to a small acquisition
(b)
           
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP operating expenses as a percent of revenue and effective tax rate for the quarter ended September 1, 2006.
 
8
 
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP operating expenses for the quarter ended September 1, 2006.
 
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP gross margin for the quarter ended September 1, 2006.
 
9
 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2006 Non-GAAP Financial Targets
The following table shows Adobe's non-GAAP financial targets reconciled to GAAP financial targets included in this release.
 
 
Adobe continues to provide all information required in accordance with GAAP, but it believes that evaluating its ongoing operating results may not be as useful if an investor is limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures.  Accordingly, Adobe uses non-GAAP financial information to evaluate its ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes.  Adobe's management does not itself, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Adobe presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate Adobe's operating results in a manner that focuses on what Adobe believes to be its ongoing business operations.  Adobe's management believes it is useful for itself and investors to review, as applicable,  both GAAP information that includes the stock compensation impact of SFAS 123R, restructuring and other charges, amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology, amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation,  investment gains and losses, tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia acquisition-related charges and SFAS 123R stock-based compensation, and the non-GAAP measures that exclude such information in order to assess the performance of Adobe's business and for planning and forecasting in subsequent periods.  Whenever Adobe uses such a non-GAAP financial measure, it provides a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most closely applicable GAAP financial measure.  Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure as detailed above.
10
 
For all fiscal 2006 periods presented, Adobe's GAAP financial information and targets include the stock compensation impact of SFAS 123R, restructuring and other charges, amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology, amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation, and tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia acquisition-related charges and SFAS 123R stock-based compensation. Also, in accordance with GAAP, Adobe incurs investment gains and losses from its venture program. These charges are otherwise unrelated to Adobe's ongoing business operations and are excluded from its non-GAAP financial information and targets.
11


