FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20061109171942.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(b) On November 7, 2006, Randy Furr resigned as Adobe Systems Incorporated's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, but will remain an Adobe employee through December 31, 2006, to assist with transition matters. A copy of Adobe's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(c) On November 7, 2006, Bruce Chizen, Adobe's Chief Executive Officer, has assumed the additional responsibilities of Chief Financial Officer until a replacement for Mr. Furr is named. A copy of Adobe's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits
(d)
        
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
Public Relations Contact:
Jodi Warner Adobe Systems Incorporated 408-536-2084 jwarner@adobe.com
Investor Relations Contact:
Mike Saviage Adobe Systems Incorporated
408-536-4416
ir@adobe.com
Adobe Systems Announces Resignation of Chief Financial Officer
SAN JOSE, Calif.  November 9, 2006
 Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today announced Randy Furr has resigned his position as executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective November 7, 2006. He will remain an employee of the company through December 31, 2006 to assist with transition matters.
The company indicated Furr's resignation is unrelated to his work performed at Adobe and no issues have been raised regarding the integrity of the company's financial statements.
Bruce Chizen, chief executive officer of Adobe, has assumed the additional responsibilities of chief financial officer until a replacement for Furr is named. Adobe has begun a search for a new chief financial officer.
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
Adobe revolutionizes how the world engages with ideas and information  anytime, anywhere and through any medium. For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
###
 2006 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


