FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20070328171317.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Adobe Systems Incorporated
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On March 26, 2007, Adobe Systems Incorporated (the "Company") renewed its lease arrangement for one of three buildings the Company occupies as part of its corporate headquarters, known as the Almaden Tower, located in San Jose, California (the "Property").
Pursuant to a lease agreement (the "Lease"), dated March 26, 2007, between the Company as Lessee and  SELCO Service Corporation as Lessor, the Company has leased the Property for a new five year term that extends to March 26, 2012, with an option to extend for an additional five years at the Company's sole discretion.  Rent payments under the Lease are a function of LIBOR; payments for the initial term are currently estimated to be $29.7 million.  The Company has the option to purchase the Property at any time during the term of the Lease for approximately $103.6 million.  The maximum recourse amount (or residual value guarantee) under this obligation is approximately $89.5 million.  The Lease will continue to qualify for operating lease treatment under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13, "Accounting for Leases," and as such, the Property and related obligations will not be included on the Company's consolidated balance sheet.
The Lease is subject to a financial covenant regarding the maximum permitted leverage ratio, and is subject to customary default provisions, including, without limitation, those relating to non-payment under the Lease, non-payment of certain other debt obligations of the Company, fundamental changes in the nature of the business of the Company, false or misleading representations or warranties, performance defaults, and events of insolvency.   In the case of a default, the Lessor may demand the Company purchase the Property for an amount equal to the Lease balance, or require that the Company relinquish the Property.  At the end of the term of the Lease, the Company can purchase the Property for the Lease balance or remarket the Property.  If the Company chooses to remarket the Property, the Company is bound to arrange the sale of the Property to an unrelated third party and will be required to pay the Lessor any shortfall between the net remarketing proceeds and the Lease balance, up to the maximum recourse amount.
As part of the financing of the Lease, the Company purchased a portion of the Lessor's receivable under the Lease for approximately $80.4 million, which will be recorded as an investment in lease receivable on the Company's consolidated balance sheet for the quarter ended June 1, 2007.  This purchase may be credited against the purchase price if the Company purchases the Property, or may be repaid from the sale proceeds if the Property is sold to a third party.  The Company participated in this investment through a funding arrangement with KeyBank National Association (the "Lender"), the terms of which are set forth in the Participation Agreement, dated March 26, 2007, by and among the Company, Lessor, Lender and Key Lease Advisory Services (the "Participation Agreement"). Pursuant to the Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others," the Company will record $3.0 million in other long-term liabilities, equal to the fair value of the residual value guarantee, with the offsetting entry recorded to prepaid rent in other assets.  This balance will be amortized to the income statement over the life of the Lease.
The foregoing description of the Lease and related Participation Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to each of the Lease and the Participation Agreement, copies of which are attached to this Current Report as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2.
2
Section 2 - Financial Information
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
See description set forth in Item 1.01 above.
(a)
  
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits
(d)
        
 
3
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
4
 
5

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
THIS DOCUMENT SECURES FUTURE ADVANCES
This Lease is subject to a lien in favor of the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties.  This Lease has been executed in several counterparts.  To the extent, if any, that this Lease constitutes chattel paper (as such term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in any applicable jurisdiction), no lien on this Lease may be created through the transfer or possession of any counterpart other than the original counterpart containing the receipt therefor executed by the Administrative Agent, on or following the signature page hereof.
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
i
 
 
ii
 
iii
 
 
iv
LEASE
THIS DOCUMENT SECURES FUTURE ADVANCES
(this ), dated as of March 26, 2007, between ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation, as Lessee (together with its permitted successors and assigns, the ), and SELCO SERVICE CORPORATION, an Ohio corporation doing business in California as "Ohio SELCO SERVICE CORPORATION", as Lessor (in such capacity, the ).
THIS LEASE
""
Lease
""
Lessee
""
Lessor
WITNESSETH:
, the Lessor and the Lessee previously entered into a lease financing (the ) pursuant to that certain Participation Agreement dated as of September 26, 2001 (the ), to, , construct Improvements on the Land;
WHEREAS
"Prior Transaction"
"Prior Participation Agreement"
inter alia
, the Lessor and the Lessee desire to refinance the Prior Transaction;
WHEREAS
, pursuant to that certain Participation Agreement dated as of the date hereof (as amended, modified, restated or supplemented from time to time, the ), among the Lessee, the Lessor, the Purchasers described therein, the Lender described therein, and KeyBank National Association, as Administrative Agent for the Participants, the Participants have agreed to re-finance the Property;
WHEREAS
"Participation Agreement"
, the Lessor desires to lease to the Lessee, and the Lessee desires to lease from the Lessor, the Property; and
WHEREAS
, the Property will be subject to the terms of this Lease;
WHEREAS
, in consideration of the foregoing, and of other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS
SECTION 1.1.  .  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Lease have the respective meanings specified in to the Participation Agreement, and the rules of interpretation set forth in such shall apply to this Lease.
Definitions; Interpretation
Appendix A
Appendix A
ARTICLE II LEASE
SECTION 2.1.  .  Pursuant to the Prior Participation Agreement, the Lessor did acquire and accept (a) a leasehold interest in the Land, and (b) the Improvements constructed thereon.  The Lessor now agrees that it shall, commencing on the first
Acceptance and Lease of Property
day of the Lease Term, demise and lease to the Lessee hereunder for the Lease Term the Lessor's interest in the Property, and the Lessee hereby agrees, expressly for the direct benefit of the Lessor, to accept and lease from the Lessor for the Lease Term, the Lessor's interest in the Property.
SECTION 2.2.  .  The Lessee hereby agrees that the execution and delivery by it of this Lease shall, without further act, constitute the acceptance by the Lessee of the Property for all purposes of this Lease and the other Operative Documents on the terms set forth herein and therein, and that the Property, including all Improvements constructed or installed on the Property, shall be deemed to be included in the leasehold estate of this Lease and shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Lease as of the first day of the Lease Term.
Acceptance Procedure
SECTION 2.3.  .  The Lease Term (the ) of this Lease shall commence on (and include) and be in full force and effect on the Closing Date, and shall end on (and include) the Expiration Date (as the same may be extended in accordance with Section 19.1 hereof).
Lease Term
""
Lease Term
SECTION 2.4.  .  The Property is leased to the Lessee without any representation or warranty, express or implied, by the Lessor and subject to the rights of parties in possession, the existing state of title (including, without limitation, all Liens other than Lessor Liens attributable to Lessor) and all Applicable Law.  The Lessee shall in no event have any recourse against the Lessor for any defect in or exception to title to the Property other than resulting from Lessor Liens attributable to the Lessor.
Title
ARTICLE III PAYMENT OF RENT
SECTION 3.1.  .
Rent
(a)           During the Lease Term, the Lessee shall pay Basic Rent for the Property to the Lessor on each Rent Payment Date, on the date required under Section 20.1(m) in connection with the Lessee's exercise of the Remarketing Option and on any date on which this Lease shall terminate with respect to the Property.
(b)           Neither the Lessee's inability or failure to take possession of all or any portion of the Property when delivered by the Lessor, nor the inability or failure of the Lessor to deliver all or any portion of the Property to the Lessee on the Closing Date or thereafter, whether or not attributable to any act or omission of the Lessee or any act or omission of the Lessor, shall delay or otherwise affect the Lessee's obligation to pay Rent for the Property in accordance with the terms of this Lease.
SECTION 3.2.    Rent shall be paid absolutely net to each Person entitled thereto, so that this Lease shall yield to such Person the full amount thereof, without setoff, deduction or reduction.
Payment of Rent.
SECTION 3.3.  .  The Lessee shall pay to the Lessor or any other Person entitled thereto any and all Supplemental Rent promptly as the same shall become due
Supplemental Rent
2
and payable, and if the Lessee fails to pay any Supplemental Rent, the Lessor and such other Persons shall have all rights, powers and remedies provided for herein or by law or equity or otherwise.  The Lessee shall pay to the Lessor, as Supplemental Rent, among other things, (a) all rent, taxes, insurance  and any other amounts payable by the Lessor as tenant under the Ground Lease, and (b) on demand, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, interest at the Default Rate (or if no rate is applicable, at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate a margin of 2% per annum) on any installment of Basic Rent not paid when due for the period for which the same shall be overdue and on any payment of Supplemental Rent not paid when due or demanded by the Lessor for the period from the due date or the date of any such demand, as the case may be, until the same shall be paid.  The expiration or other termination of the Lessee's obligations to pay Basic Rent hereunder shall not limit or modify the obligations of the Lessee with respect to Supplemental Rent.  Unless expressly provided otherwise in this Lease, in the event of any failure on the part of the Lessee to pay and discharge any Supplemental Rent as and when due, the Lessee shall also promptly pay and discharge any fine, penalty, interest or cost which may be assessed or added under any agreement to which Lessee is a party or which is authorized in writing by the Lessee with a third party for nonpayment or late payment of such Supplemental Rent, all of which shall also constitute Supplemental Rent.
plus
SECTION 3.4.  .  Each payment of Rent payable by the Lessee to the Lessor under this Lease or any other Operative Document shall be made by the Lessee to the Administrative Agent as assignee of the Lessor under the Assignment of Lease and Rent (or, if all amounts owing to the Participants under the Operative Documents have been paid in full, to the Lessor) prior to 2:00 P.M. (New York time), to the Account in immediately available funds consisting of lawful currency of the United States of America on the date when such payment shall be due.  Payments received after 2:00 P.M. (New York time), on the date due shall for the purpose of Section 16.1 hereof be deemed received on such day; , that for the purposes of the second sentence of Section 3.3 hereof, such payments shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and subject to interest at the Default Rate as provided in such Section 3.3.
Method of Payment
provided, however
ARTICLE IV QUIET ENJOYMENT; RIGHT TO INSPECT
SECTION 4.1.  .  Subject to Sections 2.4 and 4.2, and subject to the rights of the Lessor contained in Article XVI hereof and the other terms of the Operative Documents to which the Lessee is a party, the Lessee shall peaceably and quietly have, hold and enjoy the Property for the Lease Term, free of any claim or other action by the Lessor or anyone claiming by, through or under the Lessor (other than the Lessee) with respect to any matters arising from and after the Closing Date.  Such right of quiet enjoyment is independent of, and shall not affect the rights of the Lessor or any assignee thereof otherwise to initiate legal action to enforce the obligations of the Lessee under this Lease.
Quiet Enjoyment
SECTION 4.2.  .  During the Lease Term, the Lessee shall upon reasonable advance written  notice from the Lessor (except that no advance notice will be required after the occurrence and during the continuance of a Lease Event of Default), permit any Participant or the Administrative Agent and their respective authorized representatives to inspect the Property during normal business hours, , that such inspections shall not unreasonably interfere with the Lessee's business operations at the Property.
Right to Inspect
provided
3
ARTICLE V NET LEASE, ETC.
SECTION 5.1.    This Lease shall constitute a net lease.  Any present or future law to the contrary notwithstanding, this Lease shall not terminate, nor shall the Lessee be entitled to any abatement, suspension, deferment, reduction, setoff, counterclaim, or defense with respect to the Rent, nor shall the obligations of the Lessee hereunder be affected (except as expressly herein permitted and by performance of the obligations in connection therewith) by reason of: (a) any defect in the condition, merchantability, design, construction, quality or fitness for use of the Property or any part thereof, or the failure of the Property to comply with all Applicable Law, including any inability to occupy or use the Property or any part thereof by reason of such non-compliance; (b) any damage to, removal, abandonment, salvage, loss, contamination of or Release from, scrapping or destruction of or any requisition or taking of the Property or any part thereof, (c) any restriction, prevention or curtailment of or interference with the construction on or any use of the Property or any part thereof including eviction; (d) any defect in title to or rights to the Property or any Lien on such title or rights or on the Property (other than Lessor Liens); (e) any change, waiver, extension, indulgence or other action or omission or breach in respect of any obligation or liability of or by the Administrative Agent or any Participant; (f) any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, composition, adjustment, dissolution, liquidation or other like proceedings relating to Lessee, any Participant or any other Person, or any action taken with respect to this Lease by any trustee or receiver of the Lessee, any Participant or any other Person, or by any court, in any such proceeding; (g) any claim that the Lessee has or might have against any Person, including without limitation any Participant or any vendor, manufacturer, contractor of or for the Property; (h) any failure on the part of the Lessor to perform or comply with any of the terms of this Lease (other than performance by the Lessor of its obligations set forth in Section 2.1 hereof), of any other Operative Document or of any other agreement; (i) any invalidity or unenforceability or illegality or disaffirmance of this Lease against or by the Lessee or any provision hereof or any of the other Operative Documents or any provision of any thereof; (j) the impossibility or illegality of performance by the Lessee, the Lessor or both; (k) any action by any court, administrative agency or other Governmental Authority; or (l) any other cause or circumstances whether similar or dissimilar to the foregoing and whether or not the Lessee shall have notice or knowledge of any of the foregoing.  The Lessee's agreement in the preceding sentence shall not affect any claim, action or right the Lessee may have against the Lessor or any other Participant.  The parties intend that the obligations of the Lessee hereunder shall be covenants and agreements that are separate and independent from any obligations of the Lessor hereunder or under any other Operative Documents and the obligations of the Lessee shall continue unaffected unless such obligations shall have been modified or terminated in accordance with an express provision of this Lease.
Net Lease.
SECTION 5.2.  .  The Lessee shall remain obligated under this Lease in accordance with its terms and shall not take any action to terminate, rescind or avoid this Lease (except as provided herein), notwithstanding any action for bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, liquidation, dissolution, or other proceeding affecting the Lessor or
No Termination or Abatement
4
any Participant, or any action with respect to this Lease which may be taken by any trustee, receiver or liquidator of the Lessor or any Participant or by any court with respect to the Lessor or any Participant.  The Lessee hereby waives all right to terminate or surrender this Lease (except as provided herein) or except as a consequence of a reduction in the Property Cost as a result of Casualty or Condemnation proceeds pursuant to the terms of Section 14.3(a) of this Lease, or as a result of a purchase of any or all of the Property pursuant to Section 18.1 of this Lease, to avail itself of any abatement, suspension, deferment, reduction, setoff, counterclaim or defense with respect to the Property Cost.  The Lessee shall remain obligated under this Lease in accordance with its terms and the Lessee hereby waives any and all rights now or hereafter conferred by statute or otherwise to modify or to avoid strict compliance with its obligations under this Lease and the Operative Documents.  Notwithstanding any such statute or otherwise, the Lessee shall be bound by all of the terms and conditions contained in this Lease.
ARTICLE VI ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLEASING BY LESSEE
SECTION 6.1.  .  THE LESSEE SHALL NOT, WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH PARTICIPANT (SUCH CONSENTS TO BE GIVEN OR WITHHELD IN THE SOLE DISCRETION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH PARTICIPANT), TRANSFER, ASSIGN OR ENCUMBER THIS LEASE OR ANY OF ITS RIGHTS OR OBLIGATIONS HEREUNDER OR SUBLEASE THE PROPERTY OR ANY PART THEREOF EXCEPT AS PERMITTED BY SECTION 6.2, AND ANY SUCH TRANSFER, ASSIGNMENT, ENCUMBRANCE OR SUBLEASE THAT IS NOT PERMITTED BY SECTION 6.2 AND MADE WITHOUT SUCH WRITTEN CONSENTS THERETO SHALL BE NULL AND VOID.
General
SECTION 6.2.  .  During the Lease Term, the Lessee may sublease the Property or any portion thereof to any Person upon no less than five (5) days prior written notice to the Administrative Agent and the Lessor; , that:  (a) no sublease or other relinquishment of possession of the Property shall in any way discharge or diminish any of the obligations of the Lessee to the Lessor and the other Participants under this Lease and the other Operative Documents and the Lessee shall remain directly and primarily liable under this Lease and the other Operative Documents to which it is a party; (b) any sublease of the Property shall expressly be made subject to and subordinated to this Lease and to the rights of the Lessor hereunder; (c) each sublease shall expressly provide for the immediate surrender of the Property to the Lessor after notice from the Lessor to such sublessee of the occurrence of a Lease Event of Default and a request for such surrender; and (d) all such subleases shall expressly provide for automatic termination at or prior to the earlier of (i) the Expiration Date and (ii) the occurrence of a Lease Event of Default unless the Lessee shall have exercised its Purchase Option and purchased the Property pursuant to Section 18.1.
Subletting
provided, however
5
ARTICLE VII LESSEE ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
SECTION 7.1.  .  THE LESSEE ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ALTHOUGH THE LESSOR WILL (A) OWN AND HOLD LEASEHOLD TITLE TO THE LAND AND (B) OWN AND HOLD TITLE TO THE IMPROVEMENTS, THE LESSEE IS SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR PROPERTY AND ANY ALTERATIONS OR MODIFICATIONS THERETO.  THE LESSEE FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT IT IS LEASING THE PROPERTY WITHOUT REPRESENTATION, WARRANTY OR COVENANT (EXPRESS OR IMPLIED) BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY PARTICIPANT AND IN EACH CASE SUBJECT TO (A) THE EXISTING STATE OF TITLE (EXCLUDING LESSOR LIENS ATTRIBUTABLE TO LESSOR), (B) THE RIGHTS OF ANY PARTIES IN POSSESSION THEREOF, (C) ANY STATE OF FACTS WHICH AN ACCURATE SURVEY OR PHYSICAL INSPECTION MIGHT SHOW, AND (D) VIOLATIONS OF APPLICABLE LAW WHICH MAY EXIST ON THE DATE HEREOF, ON THE CLOSING DATE OR ON ANY DATE THEREAFTER.  NEITHER THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT NOR ANY PARTICIPANT HAS MADE OR SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE MADE ANY REPRESENTATION, WARRANTY OR COVENANT (EXPRESS OR IMPLIED) OR SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE ANY LIABILITY WHATSOEVER AS TO THE TITLE (OTHER THAN FOR LESSOR LIENS ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR SUCH PARTICIPANT, AS THE CASE MAY BE), VALUE, HABITABILITY, USE, CONDITION, DESIGN, OPERATION, OR FITNESS FOR USE OF THE PROPERTY (OR ANY PART THEREOF), OR ANY OTHER REPRESENTATION, WARRANTY OR COVENANT (EXCEPT SECTION 4.1 HEREOF) WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WITH RESPECT TO THE PROPERTY (OR ANY PART THEREOF) AND NEITHER THE LESSOR NOR ANY OTHER PARTICIPANT SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY LATENT, HIDDEN, OR PATENT DEFECT THEREIN (OTHER THAN FOR LESSOR LIENS ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE LESSOR OR SUCH OTHER PARTICIPANT) OR THE FAILURE OF THE PROPERTY, OR ANY PART THEREOF, TO COMPLY WITH ANY APPLICABLE LAW.
Condition of the Property
"AS IS, WHERE IS, AND WITH ALL FAULTS"
SECTION 7.2.  .  The Lessor hereby appoints the Lessee as the Lessor's attorney-in-fact, with full authority in the place and stead of the Lessor, to take such actions from time to time during the Lease Term so long as no Lease Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, at the Lessee's sole cost and expense, as are necessary or desirable to enforce any warranty or guaranty of any Person relating to the Property.  The Lessor shall under no circumstances be required to build any improvements on the Property, make any repairs, replacements, alterations or renewals of any nature or description to the Property, make any expenditure whatsoever in connection with this Lease (other than for Advances made in accordance with and pursuant to the terms of the Participation Agreement) or maintain the Property in any way.  The Lessee waives any right to (a) require the Lessor to maintain, repair, or rebuild all or any part of the Property or (b) make repairs at the expense of the Lessor pursuant to any Applicable Law, Insurance Requirement, contract, agreement, or covenant, condition or restriction in effect at any time during the Lease Term.
Enforcement of Warranties; No Obligation of Lessor to Repair, etc
6
SECTION 7.3.    Nothing contained in this Lease shall be construed as constituting the consent or request of the Lessor, any other Participant, Affected Party, Indemnitee or other Person, expressed or implied, to or for the performance by any contractor, mechanic, laborer, materialman, supplier or vendor of any labor or services or for the furnishing of any materials for any construction, alteration, addition, repair or demolition of or to the Property or any part thereof.  NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT NEITHER THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT NOR ANY PARTICIPANT IS OR SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY LABOR, SERVICES OR MATERIALS FURNISHED OR TO BE FURNISHED TO THE LESSEE, OR TO ANYONE HOLDING ANY INTEREST IN THE PROPERTY OR ANY PART THEREOF THROUGH OR UNDER THE LESSEE, AND THAT NO MECHANIC'S OR OTHER LIENS FOR ANY SUCH LABOR, SERVICES OR MATERIALS SHALL ATTACH TO OR AFFECT THE INTEREST OF THE LESSOR OR ANY OTHER PARTICIPANT IN AND TO THE PROPERTY.
No Liability of Participants, etc.
ARTICLE VIII POSSESSION AND USE OF THE PROPERTY, ETC.
SECTION 8.1.  .  The Lessee shall pay or cause to be paid all charges for electricity, power, gas, oil, water, telephone, sanitary sewer service and all other rents and utilities used in or on the Property during the Lease Term.  The Lessee shall be entitled to receive any credit or refund with respect to any utility charge paid by the Lessee and the amount of any credit or refund received by the Lessor on account of any utility charges paid by the Lessee, net of the costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the Lessor in obtaining such credit or refund, shall be promptly paid over to the Lessee.
Utility Charges
SECTION 8.2.  .  Lessee covenants that the Property shall be used, operated and maintained as a first class office building and in a manner consistent with this Lease and the standards applied by the Lessee for other office building similar to the Property owned or leased by the Lessee and its Subsidiaries.  The Lessee shall pay, or cause to be paid, all charges and costs required in connection with the use of the Property as contemplated by this Lease.  The Lessee shall not commit or permit any waste or abandonment of the Property or any part thereof.
Possession, Use and Operation of the Property
SECTION 8.3.    Subject to the terms of Article XII relating to permitted contests, the Lessee, at its sole cost and expense, shall:
Compliance with Applicable Laws and Insurance Requirements; Necessary Permits, etc.
(a)           comply in all material respects with all Applicable Laws (including all  Environmental Laws) relating to the Property, including the use, construction, operation, maintenance, repair and restoration thereof and the remarketing thereof pursuant to Article XX, whether or not compliance therewith shall require structural or extraordinary changes in the Improvements or interfere with the use and enjoyment of the Property,
(b)           comply in all material respects with all Insurance Requirements, and
7
(c)           procure, maintain and comply in all material respects with all Necessary Permits, and notify the Lessor within ten (10) days of an officer of the Lessee having knowledge of any actual or pending termination or revocation of any Necessary Permit.
SECTION 8.4.  .  The Lessee herein covenants by and for itself, its heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, and all persons claiming under or through it, and this Lease is made and accepted upon and subject to the following conditions:
Non-discrimination Required by Ground Lease
"That there shall be no discrimination against or segregation of any person or group of persons on account of race, color, creed, religion, sex, age, handicap, marital status, ancestry or national origin in the leasing, subleasing, transferring, use, occupancy, tenure or enjoyment of the premises herein leased, nor shall the Lessee itself, or any person claiming under or through it, establish or permit any such practice or practices of discrimination or segregation with reference to the selection, location, number, use or occupancy of tenants, lessees, subtenants, sublessees or vendees in the premises herein leased."
ARTICLE IX MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
SECTION 9.1.  .  The Lessee, at its sole cost and expense, shall maintain the Property in good condition (ordinary wear and tear excepted) and make all necessary repairs thereto, of every kind and nature whatsoever, whether interior or exterior, ordinary or extraordinary, structural or nonstructural or foreseen or unforeseen, in each case as required by all Applicable Laws and Insurance Requirements and in no event less than the standards applied by the Lessee in the operation and maintenance of facilities similar to the Property owned or leased by the Lessee or its Subsidiaries.
Maintenance and Repair
ARTICLE X MODIFICATIONS, ETC
SECTION 10.1.  .  During the Lease Term, the Lessee, at its sole cost and expense, may at any time and from time to time make alterations, renovations, improvements and additions to the Property or any part thereof and substitutions and replacements therefor (collectively, ); , that:
Modifications
"Modifications"
provided, however
(a)           except for any Modification required to be made pursuant to any Applicable Law (a ), no Modification shall diminish the Fair Market Sales Value, residual value, utility or remaining useful life of the Property; and
"Required Modification"
(b)           such Modifications shall comply with Articles VIII and IX.
All Modifications shall remain part of the realty and title thereto shall immediately vest in the Lessor and be subject to the this Lease; , that Modifications that (i) are not Required Modifications, (ii) were not financed by the Participants and (iii) can be removed
provided, however
8
without causing (A) damage to the Property, (B) any diminution in the Fair Market Sales Value of the Property and (C) any diminution in the remaining useful life of the Property, shall be the property of the Lessee or other third party and may be removed by the Lessee during the Lease Term and shall not be subject to this Lease.  The Lessee may place upon the Property any trade fixtures, machinery, equipment, inventory or other property belonging to the Lessee or third parties and may remove the same, , to the terms of Section 9.1;  , that such trade fixtures, machinery, equipment, inventory or other property can be removed without causing damage to the Property, any diminution in the Fair Market Sales Value of the Property or any diminution in the remaining useful life of the Property; , that the Lessee shall keep and maintain at the Property and shall not remove from the Property any Equipment financed or otherwise paid for by the Participants pursuant to the Participation Agreement or the Prior Participation Agreement.
subject, however
provided, however
provided, further, however
ARTICLE XI DISCHARGE OF LIENS; CONDITION UPON RETURN
SECTION 11.1.  .  The Lessee agrees that except as otherwise provided herein and subject to the terms of Article XII relating to permitted contests, the Lessee shall not directly or indirectly create or allow to remain, and shall promptly discharge at its sole cost and expense, any Lien (other than any Permitted Property Lien), defect, attachment, levy, title retention agreement or claim upon the Property or any Lien, attachment, levy or claim with respect to the Rent or with respect to any amounts held by any Participant pursuant to the Operative Documents, other than Permitted Property Liens.
Lessee's Obligation to Discharge Liens
SECTION 11.2.  .  The Lessee shall, upon the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease (other than as a result of the Lessee's purchase of the Property from the Lessor as provided herein), vacate and surrender the Property to the Lessor in its then-current, condition, without any express or implied warranty subject to the Lessee's obligations under Sections 8.3, Article IX, 10.1, 11.1, 14.3, 14.4 and Article XX.  Title to all improvements, furnishings, furniture, fixtures and any personal property of the Lessee which were not funded by the Lessor and the Lenders pursuant to the Participation Agreement or the Prior Participation Agreement, located on or about the Property whether or not affixed to the realty, shall, subject to the following sentence, be and remain the property of the Lessee throughout the Lease Term, and at any time during the Lease Term, may be removed by the Lessee or, at the Lessee's election surrendered with the Property, in which event title to such surrendered property shall, if the Lessor so elects, be deemed transferred to the Lessor.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any fixture constituting part of the Property which is required by Applicable Law or which cannot be removed without causing (a) material damage to the Property, (b) any diminution in the Fair Market Sales Value of the Property or (c) any diminution in the remaining useful life of the Property, shall at all times remain part of the Property.
Condition Upon Return to Lessor
"AS IS"
 
9
ARTICLE XII PERMITTED CONTESTS; GRANTS AND RELEASES OF EASEMENTS;  GROUND LEASE PURCHASE OPTION
SECTION 12.1.  .  Except to the extent otherwise provided in Section 13.5(b) of the Participation Agreement regarding Taxes and other Impositions, if, to the extent and for so long as (a) a test, challenge, appeal or proceeding for review of any Applicable Law relating to the Property shall be prosecuted diligently and in good faith in appropriate proceedings by the Lessee or (b) compliance with such Applicable Law shall have been excused or exempted by a valid nonconforming use, variance permit, waiver, extension or forbearance, the Lessee shall not be required to comply with such Applicable Law relating to the Property but only if and so long as any such test, challenge, appeal, proceeding, waiver, extension, forbearance or noncompliance shall not, in the reasonable opinion of the Lessor, the other Participants and the Administrative Agent, involve (i) any risk of criminal liability being imposed on any Indemnitee or (ii) any substantial risk of (A) foreclosure, forfeiture or loss of the Property or any material part thereof, (B) the nonpayment of Rent or (C) the sale of, or the creation of any Lien (other than a Permitted Property Lien) on, any part of the Property, (D) civil liability being imposed on any Indemnitee or the Property, or (E) enjoinment of, or interference with, the use, possession or disposition of the Property in any material respect.  The Lessor, at the Lessee's sole cost and expense, shall execute and deliver to the Lessee such authorizations and other documents as may reasonably be required in connection with any such permitted contest.
Permitted Contests in Respect of Applicable Law Other Than Impositions
The Lessor will not be required to join in any proceedings pursuant to this Section 12.1 unless a provision of any Applicable Law requires that such proceedings be brought by or in the name of the Lessor; and in that event the Lessor will join in the proceedings or permit them or any part thereof to be brought in its name if and so long as (a) the Lessee has not elected the Remarketing Option, (b) no Lease Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (c) the Lessee pays all related expenses of the Administrative Agent and the Indemnitees with respect to such proceedings and indemnifies the Administrative Agent and the Indemnitees with respect thereto
SECTION 12.2.  .  Provided that no Lease Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, from time to time upon request of the Lessee and subject to the Lessee's prompt reimbursement of the Lessor's costs and expenses, the Lessor (as holder of record of a leasehold interest in the Property) shall execute such documents reasonably satisfactory in form (which have been prepared at Lessee's expense) to effect any of the actions set forth in clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of the following sentence, if in the Lessee's reasonable and good faith opinion such action by the Lessor is necessary or appropriate to effect such intended actions.  Provided that (i) no Lease Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (ii) that the same will not adversely affect the fair market sales value, performance, utility or remaining useful life of the Property; and subject to the provisions of Articles VII, IX and X and Section 8.3, the Lessor hereby consents in each instance to the following actions by the Lessee as the Lessor's agent, and the Lessor hereby appoints the Lessee the Lessor's attorney-in-fact, with full authority in the place and stead of the Lessor to take such action or actions from time to time during the Lease Term, but at the Lessee's sole cost
Grants and Releases of Easements; Lessor's Waivers
10
and expense: (a) the granting of easements, licenses, rights-of-way and other rights and privileges in the nature of easements reasonably necessary or desirable for the use, repair, operation or maintenance of the Property as herein provided; (b) the release of existing easements or other rights in the nature of easements which are for the benefit of the Property; (c) if required by applicable Governmental Authority, the dedication or transfer of unimproved portions of the Property for road, highway or other public purposes; (d) the execution of amendments to any covenants and restrictions; (e) the filing and processing of  any and all permit applications, authorizations, entitlements, agreements with any government or regulatory agency or amendments thereof, or other documents reasonably required or beneficial for construction or Modification of the Improvements, or amendments to Permitted Property Liens or governmental permits or approvals affecting the Property; and (f) the execution and filing of tract or parcel maps subdividing the Land into lots or parcels or reconfiguring existing lots or parcels; , that in each case:  (i) such grant, release, dedication, transfer or amendment is, in the Lessee's judgment, reasonably necessary or beneficial in connection with the use, maintenance, alteration or improvement of the Property, (ii) such grant, release, dedication, transfer or amendment will not cause the Property or any portion thereof to fail to comply with the provisions of this Lease or any other Operative Documents and all Applicable Law (including, without limitation, all applicable zoning, planning, building and subdivision ordinances, all applicable restrictive covenants and all applicable architectural approval requirements); (iii) any and all governmental consents or approvals required prior to (or as a consequence of) such grant, release, dedication, transfer, annexation or amendment have been obtained, and any and all filings required prior to (or as a consequence of) such action have been made; (iv) the Lessee shall remain obligated under this Lease and under any instrument executed by the Lessee consenting to the assignment of the Lessor's interests in this Lease as security for indebtedness, in each such case in accordance with their terms, as though such grant, release, dedication, transfer or amendment had not been effected; (v) the Lessee shall pay and perform any obligations of the Lessor under such grant, release, dedication, transfer or amendment and (vi) such grant, release, dedication, transfer or amendment will not materially adversely affect the Fair Market Sales Value, residual value, utility or remaining useful life of the Property.  The Lessor acknowledges the Lessee's right to finance and to secure under the Uniform Commercial Code, inventory, furnishings, furniture, equipment, machinery, leasehold improvements and other personal property located at the Property other than Equipment, and the Lessor agrees to execute Lessor waiver forms and release of Lessor Liens in favor of any purchase money seller, lessor or lender which has financed or may finance in the future such items.  Without limiting the effectiveness of the foregoing, , that no Lease Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Lessor shall, upon the request of the Lessee, and at the Lessee's sole cost and expense, execute and deliver any instruments necessary or appropriate to confirm any such grant, release, dedication, transfer, annexation or amendment to any Person permitted under this Section 12.2 including landlord waivers with respect to any of the foregoing.
provided, however
provided
SECTION 12.3.  .  So long as no Event of Default under this Lease shall have occurred and be continuing, Lessor shall not exercise any purchase option right under the Ground Lease without Lessee's prior written consent (which consent Lessee may withhold in its sole discretion at any time unless an Event of Default under this Lease shall have occurred and be continuing).  So long as no Event of Default under this Lease shall have occurred and be continuing, upon the Lessee's written request, Lessor shall (at Lessee's cost and expense and no cost or expense to Lessor) cooperate with Lessee so as to
Purchase Option Under Ground Lease
11
permit Lessee to acquire the Ground Lessor's interest under the Ground Lease and become the lessor thereunder pursuant to any purchase option right contained in the Ground Lease (which cooperation may include either an assignment of such purchase option rights to Lessee or by Lessor exercising such purchase option on behalf of and for the benefit of the Lessee); that Lessor shall have no obligation or liability with respect to the purchase of such interests of the Ground Lessor, and Lessee shall indemnify and hold Lessor harmless from and against any and all loss, cost, liability, claim, damage or expense suffered or incurred by Lessor (including taxes and attorney's fees and costs) as a consequence of, or in any way related to, the assignment to Lessee or the exercise of any such purchase option right under the Ground Lease or any actions taken by Lessor with respect thereto.
provided, however,
ARTICLE XIII INSURANCE
SECTION 13.1.    During the Lease Term, the Lessee shall, at its own expense, maintain insurance as set forth herein.
Required Insurance.
(a)             During the Lease Term, the Lessee shall procure and carry or cause to be procured and carried, at the Lessee's sole cost and expense, commercial general liability insurance (including for bodily injuries or death sustained by persons and damage to property) and such other public liability coverages as are ordinarily procured by the Lessee with respect to similar facilities.  The terms and amounts of such liability insurance shall be consistent with normal industry practice, but in any event not less than the scope and amount of coverage as are ordinarily procured by the Lessee with respect to office buildings similar to the Property; that such coverage shall be in an amount of at least $5,000,000 combined single limit per occurrence and in the aggregate, as applicable.  In no event may the coverage described in this clause (a) be provided on claims-made (as opposed to an occurrence) coverage form.
Commercial General Liability Insurance.
provided, however,
(b)           .  During the Lease Term, the Lessee shall obtain, and keep in full force and effect, a policy or policies of property insurance insuring the Property for the full replacement cost thereof (without depreciation) against physical damage to the Improvements caused by perils now or hereafter defined in an insurance policy, including but not limited to fire, lightning, windstorm, hail, explosion, riot and civil commotion, vandalism and malicious mischief, and smoke, with coverage for flood to the extent available on commercially reasonable terms for the Lessee.  Lessee will self-insure against loss or damage to the Improvements caused by any earthquake, and Lessee will not be required to maintain earthquake insurance but may elect to do so.
Property Insurance
"all risks"
(c)           .  During the Lease Term, the Lessee shall (i) maintain workers' compensation insurance as required by the State of California, and (ii) maintain employer's liability insurance with a $1,000,000 minimum limit per accident and a $1,000,000 minimum limit for excess liability.
Worker's Compensation and Employers' Liability Insurance
12
 
(d)           .  During the Lease Term, the Lessee shall maintain automobile liability insurance against claims for personal injury (including bodily injury and death) and property damage covering all owned, leased, non-owned and hired vehicles, including loading and unloading, with a $1,000,000 minimum limit per occurrence.
Automobile Liability Insurance
SECTION 13.2. 
Deductibles; Insurance Providers; Coverage and Endorsements; Confirmation of Insurance, etc.
(a)           .  The insurance required to be obtained by Lessee under this Article XIII may be subject to such reasonable deductible amounts as is consistent with the Lessee's practice for other properties similar to the Property owned or leased by Lessee, and may be carried under blanket policies maintained by or on behalf of the Lessee so long as such policies otherwise comply with the provisions of this Article XIII.
Deductibles
(b)           .  All insurance required to be carried pursuant to the requirements of this Article XIII shall be written by reputable insurance companies that are financially sound and solvent and otherwise reasonably appropriate considering the amount and type of insurance being provided by such companies.  Any insurance company selected by the Lessee which is rated in Best's Insurance Guide or any successor thereto (or if there be none, an organization having a similar national reputation) shall have a general policyholder rating of and a financial rating of at least or , if not rated in Best's Insurance Guide, an S&P rating of or better, or be otherwise reasonably acceptable to the Lessor and the Administrative Agent.  Such rating shall not be required with respect to any insurance required by this Article XIII if on any date such insurance is underwritten by an Eligible Captive Insurance Subsidiary of Lessee, Lessee's Consolidated Leverage Ratio for the most recently preceding four (4) quarter period is 3.00 to 1.00 or less.
Insurance Providers
"A--"
"IX"
"BBB"
(c)           .  All insurance required to be carried or arranged for by the Lessee pursuant to the requirements of Section 13.1 shall provide in the policy or by special endorsement that:
Endorsements
(i)            in the case of insurance required by Section 13.1(a) or 13.1(d), the Administrative Agent and each Participant are included as ;
"additional insureds"
(ii)           in the case of insurance required by Section 13.1(b), the Lessor is named as , each Participant is named as its interest may appear, and such insurance shall include a standard form in favor of the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Participants;
"loss payee"
"mortgagee endorsement"
(iii)          the insurer thereunder waives all rights of subrogation against the Administrative Agent and each Participant;
(iv)          such insurance shall be primary and shall apply to any loss or claim before any contribution of any other insurance carried by or on behalf of the Lessor;
(v)           if the insurers cancel such insurance for any reason whatsoever or any materially adverse change is made in policy terms or conditions, such cancellation or
13
change shall not be effective as to the Administrative Agent and the Participants for thirty (30) days after receipt by the Lessor, the Administrative Agent and the Participants of written notice from such insurers of such cancellation or change; and if such insurance is allowed to lapse for nonpayment of premium, such lapse shall not be effective as to the Administrative Agent and the Participants for ten (10) days after receipt by the Lessor, the Administrative Agent and the Participants of written notice from such insurers of such lapse; and
(vi)          with respect to all liability insurance, in as much as the policies are written to cover more than one insured, all terms, conditions, insuring agreements and endorsements, with the exception of the limits of liability, shall operate in the same manner as if there were a separate policy covering each insured, and such policies shall be endorsed to provide a severability of interest or cross liability clause.
(d)           .  The Lessee shall pay or cause to be paid all premiums for the insurance required hereunder.  The Lessee shall renew or replace, or cause to be renewed or replaced, each insurance policy required hereunder prior to the expiration date thereof.
Payment of Premiums
(e)           .  Promptly (but in any event within thirty (30) days) after (i) the renewal of each insurance policy required hereunder, (ii) the issuance of any additional policies or amendments or supplements to any of such policies or (iii) the issuance of any such insurance the Lessee shall provide the Lessor certificates of insurance evidencing the existence of all insurance then required to be maintained by the Lessee pursuant to this Article XIII.
Confirmation of Insurance
ARTICLE XIV RISK OF LOSS; CASUALTY AND CONDEMNATION; ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
SECTION 14.1. 
Risk of Loss.
(a)           .  During the Lease Term, the risk of loss of or decrease in the enjoyment and beneficial use of the Property as a result of the damage or destruction thereof by fire, the elements, casualties, thefts, riots, wars or other acts of God, taking, destruction, confiscation, requisition or commandeering, partial or complete, of or to the Property and/or any part thereof, however caused or occasioned, shall be borne by the Lessee until the Property has been returned to the Lessor in accordance with the provisions of this Lease or has been purchased by the Lessee or another Person in accordance with the provisions of this Lease.  The Lessee agrees that no occurrence specified in the preceding sentence shall impair, in whole or in part, any obligation of the Lessee under this Lease, including the obligation to pay Basic Rent and Supplemental Rent.
Lease Term
(b)           .  None of the Administrative Agent, any Participant or their respective agents, employees or contractors shall in any event be answerable or accountable to the Lessee for any loss of or decrease in the enjoyment or beneficial use of the Property, except for loss or damages arising from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrative Agent or such Participant, as the case may be.
Participants Not Accountable to Lessee
14
 
SECTION 14.2. 
[Reserved].
SECTION 14.3. 
Casualty or Condemnation.
(a)           Subject to the provisions of this Article XIV, if all or a portion of the Property is damaged or destroyed in whole or in part by a Casualty during the Lease Term or if the use, access, occupancy, easement rights or title to the Property or any part thereof, is the subject of a Condemnation during the Lease Term, then
(i)            in the case of a Casualty affecting the Property that is not an Event of Loss, any insurance proceeds payable with respect to such Casualty shall be paid directly to the Lessee (or if received by the Lessor, shall be paid over to the Lessee) for the sole purpose of reconstruction, refurbishment and repair of the Property; , that in the event that either (A) such reconstruction, refurbishment or repair cannot be completed prior to the end of the Lease Term or (B) the Lessee shall elect not to use such proceeds for the reconstruction, refurbishment or repair of the Property, then all such insurance proceeds payable with respect to such Casualty shall be paid to the Lessor to be applied towards the payment of the Property Cost in accordance with Section 7.2 of the Participation Agreement,
provided, however
(ii)           in the case of a Condemnation of any part of the Property that is not an Event of Loss, any award or compensation relating thereto shall be paid to the Lessee for the sole purpose of restoration of the Property; , that if such restoration cannot be completed prior to the end of the Lease Term, then such award or compensation shall be paid to the Lessor to be applied towards the payment of the Property Cost in accordance with Section 7.2 of the Participation Agreement, and
provided, however
(iii)          in the case of any Casualty or Condemnation that is an Event of Loss, such award or compensation shall be paid to the Lessor to be applied toward the payment of the Property Cost on the Termination Date in accordance with Article XV;
, that, in each case, if a Lease Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, such award, compensation or insurance proceeds shall be paid directly to the Lessor or, if received by the Lessee, shall be held in trust for the Lessor and the other Participants, and shall be paid by the Lessee to the Account to be distributed in accordance with Article VII of the Participation Agreement.  At any time that a Lease Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, all amounts held by the Lessor, the Administrative Agent, or any other Participants on account of any award, compensation or insurance proceeds either paid directly to the Lessor, any other Participant or the Administrative Agent or turned over to the Lessor, any other Participant or the Administrative Agent shall at the option of the Lessor either be (i) paid to the Lessee for the repair of damage caused by such Casualty or Condemnation in accordance with clause (d) of this Section 14.3, or (ii) applied to the repayment of the Property Cost on the Termination Date in accordance with Article XV.
provided, however
15
 
(b)           The Lessee may appear in any proceeding or action to negotiate, prosecute, adjust or appeal any claim for any award, compensation or insurance payment on account of any such Casualty or Condemnation and shall pay all expenses thereof.  At the Lessee's reasonable request, and at the Lessee's sole cost and expense, the Lessor and the Administrative Agent shall participate in any such proceeding, action, negotiation, prosecution or adjustment.  The Lessor and the Lessee agree that this Lease shall control the rights of the Lessor and the Lessee in and to any such award, compensation or insurance payment.
(c)           If the Lessor or the Lessee shall receive notice of a Casualty or of an actual, pending or threatened Condemnation of the Property or any interest therein, the Lessor or the Lessee, as the case may be, shall give notice thereof to the other and to the Administrative Agent promptly after the receipt of such notice.
(d)           If pursuant to this Section 14.3 and Section 15.1, this Lease shall continue in full force and effect following a Casualty or Condemnation with respect to the Property, the Lessee shall, at its sole cost and expense (and, without limitation, if any award, compensation or insurance payment is not sufficient to restore the Property in accordance with this clause (d), the Lessee shall pay the shortfall), promptly and diligently repair any damage to the Property caused by such Casualty or Condemnation in conformity with the requirements of Sections 8.3 and 9.1, to restore the Property to substantially the same condition, operative value and useful life as existed immediately prior to such Casualty or Condemnation.  Upon completion of such restoration, the Lessee shall furnish to the Lessor (which, in turn, shall furnish to the Administrative Agent) an architect's certificate of substantial completion and an Authorized Officer's Certificate confirming that such restoration has been completed pursuant to this Lease.
(e)           In no event shall a Casualty or Condemnation affect the Lessee's obligations to pay Rent pursuant to Section 3.1 or to perform its obligations and pay any amounts due on the Expiration Date or pursuant to Articles XVIII and XIX.
(f)            Any Excess Casualty/Condemnation Proceeds received by the Administrative Agent or any Participant in respect of a Casualty or Condemnation shall be turned over to the Lessee.
(g)           .
The Lessee hereby agrees that its rights to terminate this Lease by reason of any Condemnation affecting all or any part of the Property are solely as set forth herein and in the other Operative Documents, and the Lessee hereby expressly waives any rights it may have under Section 1265.130 of the California Code of Civil Procedure, as in effect from time to time
SECTION 14.4.  .  Promptly upon any officer of Lessee obtaining knowledge of the existence (or the alleged existence) of an Environmental Violation with respect to the Property for which the cost of remediation or of steps to comply with applicable permits might reasonably be expected to exceed $5,000,000, the Lessee shall notify the Lessor and the Administrative Agent in writing of such Environmental Violation, providing the details thereof as well as the remedial action which the Lessee is proposing.  If the Lessor does not terminate this Lease pursuant to Section 15.1(b), the Lessee shall, at its sole cost and expense, promptly and diligently commence any response, clean up, remedial or other action required by Applicable
Environmental Matters
16
Law to remove, clean up or remediate each Environmental Violation in accordance with the terms of Section 8.3.  The Lessee shall, upon completion of remedial action by the Lessee for Environmental Violations described in the first sentence of Section 14.2, cause to be prepared by an environmental consultant reasonably acceptable to the Lessor a report describing such Environmental Violation and the actions taken by the Lessee (or its agents) in response to such Environmental Violation, and a statement by the consultant that such Environmental Violation has been remedied in compliance in all material respects with applicable Environmental Laws.  Each Environmental Violation shall be remedied prior to the Expiration Date unless the Property has been purchased by the Lessee in accordance with Section 18.1.  Nothing in this Article XIV shall reduce or limit the Lessee's obligations under Sections 13.1, 13.2 or 13.3 of the Participation Agreement.
SECTION 14.5.  Promptly, but in any event within thirty (30) business Days from the date any officer of the Lessee obtains knowledge thereof pursuant to written notice from any Governmental Authority, the Lessee shall provide to the Lessor and the Administrative Agent written notice of any pending or threatened claim, action or proceeding involving any Environmental Laws or any Release on or in connection with the Property.  All such notices shall describe in reasonable detail the nature of the claim, action or proceeding and the Lessee's proposed response thereto.  In addition, the Lessee shall provide to the Lessor, within thirty (30) business Days of receipt, copies of all material written communications with any Governmental Authority relating to any such Environmental Violation in connection with the Property.  The Lessee shall also promptly provide such detailed reports of any such material environmental claims.  In the event that the Lessor receives written notice of any pending or threatened claim, action or proceeding involving any Environmental Laws or any Release on or in connection with the Property, the Lessor shall promptly give notice thereof to the Lessee.
Notice of Environmental Matters. 
ARTICLE XV TERMINATION OF LEASE
SECTION 15.1.    If any of the following occurs during the Lease Term with respect to the Property:
Partial Termination upon Certain Events.
(a)           an Event of Loss occurs; or
(b)           an Environmental Violation with respect to the Property occurs or is discovered the cost of remediation of which would exceed $20,000,000;
and the Lessor shall have given written notice (a ) to the Lessee that, as a consequence of such event this Lease is to be terminated, then the Lessee shall be obligated to purchase the Lessor's interest in the Property within thirty (30) days after the Lessee's receipt of the Termination Notice, by paying to the Lessor an amount equal to the Property Cost all accrued and unpaid Rent all other amounts then due and owing under the Operative Documents.
"Termination Notice"
plus
plus
17
 
SECTION 15.2.  .  On the date of the payment by the Lessee of the Property Cost and all other amounts required to be paid pursuant to Section 15.1 (such date, the ), this Lease shall terminate (except with respect to the provisions hereof that expressly survive termination of this Lease) and, concurrent with the Lessor's receipt of such payment, the Lessor shall transfer to the Lessee (or its designee) all of the Lessor's interest in the Property in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 18.4.
Termination Procedures
"Termination Date"
ARTICLE XVI LEASE EVENTS OF DEFAULT
SECTION 16.1.  .  The occurrence of any one or more of the following events (whether such event shall be voluntary or involuntary or come about or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to or in compliance with any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body) shall constitute a :
Lease Events of Default
"Lease Event of Default"
(a)           .  The Lessee shall (i) fail to pay when due any amount of Property Cost, Purchase Price, or any amount  due under Section 20.1(m) or  any Maximum Recourse Amount (including without limitation, amounts due pursuant to Section 18.1 or 20.1(m)), (ii) fail to pay on the Expiration Date any Basic Rent, fees or other amounts payable on the Expiration Date, or (iii) fail to pay within three (3) Business Days after the same becomes due, any other Basic Rent, fees or other amounts required under the terms of this Lease or any of the other Operative Documents (including any Supplemental Rent other than Supplemental Rent referred to in clause (i) or (ii) of this Section 16.1(a)); or
Non-Payment
(b)           .  The Lessee (or, to the extent applicable thereto, any of its Subsidiaries) shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, obligation, condition or agreement set forth in Section 9.2 or Section 9.3 of the Participation Agreement or the Lessee shall fail to observe or perform any of its obligations under Article XX after giving notice of its election of the Remarketing Option; or any insurance required to be maintained pursuant to Article XIII of this Lease shall fail to be in full force and effect; or
Specific Defaults
(c)           .  The Lessee (or, to the extent applicable thereto, any of its Subsidiaries) shall fail to observe or perform any other covenant, obligation, condition or agreement contained in this Lease or the other Operative Documents (other than those described in the foregoing clauses (a) and (b) of this Section 16.1, which defaults shall be subject to cure periods only as set forth in such clauses) and such failure shall continue for (a) in the case of any covenant, obligation, condition or agreement contained in this Lease, thirty (30) days and (b) in the case of any covenant, obligation, condition or agreement set forth in any other Operative Document, fifteen (15) Business Days, in each case after the earlier of (i) the Lessee's written acknowledgement of such failure and (ii) the Administrative Agent's or the Lessor's written notice to the Lessee of such failure; or
Other Defaults
18
 
(d)           .  Any written representation, warranty, certificate, information or other statement (financial or otherwise) made or furnished by the Lessee or any of its Subsidiaries to the Administrative Agent, the Lessor, the Lender or any Purchaser in or in connection with this Lease or any of the other Operative Documents (excluding financial projections and analyst reports) shall be false, incorrect, incomplete or misleading in any material respect when made or furnished, and either:
Representations and Warranties
(i)            The Lessee has acknowledged that such representation, warranty, certificate, information or other statement was false, incorrect, incomplete or misleading in any material respect or the Administrative Agent, the Lessor, the Lender or any Purchaser has delivered to the Lessee written notice to such effect and such representation, warranty, certificate, information or other statement cannot be remedied; or
(ii)           Such representation, warranty, certificate, information or other statement continues to be false, incorrect, incomplete or misleading in any material respect thirty (30) days after the earlier of (A) the Lessee's written acknowledgement that such representation, warranty, certificate, information or other statement was false, incorrect, incomplete or misleading in any material respect and (B) the Administrative Agent's, the Lessor's, the Lender's or any Purchaser's written notice to the Lessee to such effect; or
(e)           .  (i) The Lessee or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to make any payment on account of any Indebtedness of such Person (other than the Obligations) when due (whether at scheduled maturity, by required prepayment, upon acceleration or otherwise) and such failure shall continue beyond any period of grace provided with respect thereto, if the amount of such Indebtedness exceeds $100,000,000 or the effect of such failure is to cause, or permit the holder or holders thereof to cause, Indebtedness of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries (other than the Obligations) in an aggregate amount exceeding $100,000,000 to become redeemable, due or otherwise payable (whether at scheduled maturity, by required prepayment, upon acceleration or otherwise) and/or to be secured by cash collateral or (ii) the Lessee or any of its Subsidiaries shall otherwise fail to observe or perform any agreement, term or condition contained in any agreement or instrument relating to any Indebtedness of such Person (other than the Obligations), or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist, if the effect of such failure, event or condition is to cause, or permit the holder or holders thereof to cause, Indebtedness of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries (other than the Obligations) in an aggregate amount exceeding $100,000,000 to become redeemable, due or otherwise payable (whether at scheduled maturity, by required prepayment, upon acceleration or otherwise) and/or to be secured by cash collateral (, that the occurrence of any failure, event or condition described in this clause (ii) shall not constitute a Lease Event of Default if such failure, event or condition would not cause, or permit the holders of the relevant Indebtedness to cause, such Indebtedness to become redeemable, due or otherwise payable and/or to be secured by cash collateral but for the inclusion in the agreement or instrument governing such Indebtedness of a default provision specifying that the occurrence of any event having (or reasonably likely to have) a material adverse effect on the Lessee constitutes an event of default under such Indebtedness); or
Cross-Default
provided, however
19
 
(f)            .  The Lessee or any of its Material Domestic Subsidiaries shall (i) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, liquidator or custodian of itself or of all or a substantial part of its property, (ii) be unable, or admit in writing its inability, to pay its debts generally as they mature, (iii) make a general assignment for the benefit of its or any of its creditors, (iv) be dissolved or liquidated in full or in part except as otherwise permitted by Section 9.2(c) of the Participation Agreement, (v) become insolvent (as such term may be defined or interpreted under any applicable statute), (vi) commence a voluntary case or other proceeding seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to itself or its debts under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect or consent to any such relief or to the appointment of or taking possession of its property by any official in an involuntary case or other proceeding commenced against it, or (vii) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing; or
Insolvency, Voluntary Proceedings
(g)           .  Proceedings for the appointment of a receiver, trustee, liquidator or custodian of the Lessee or any of its Material Domestic Subsidiaries or of all or a substantial part of the property thereof, or an involuntary case or other proceedings seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to the Lessee or any of its Material Domestic Subsidiaries or the debts thereof under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect shall be commenced and an order for relief entered or such proceeding shall not be dismissed or discharged within sixty (60) days of commencement; or
Involuntary Proceedings
(h)           .  (i) One or more judgments, orders, decrees or arbitration awards requiring the Lessee and/or its Subsidiaries to pay an aggregate amount of $100,000,000 or more (exclusive of amounts covered by insurance issued by an insurer not an Affiliate of the Lessee (other than an Eligible Captive Insurance Subsidiary) and otherwise satisfying the requirements set forth in Section 9.1(g) of the Participation Agreement) shall be rendered against the Lessee and/or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with any single or related series of transactions, incidents or circumstances and the same shall not be satisfied, vacated or stayed for a period of ten (10) consecutive days; or (ii) any judgment, writ, assessment, warrant of attachment, tax lien or execution or similar process shall be issued or levied against a substantial part of the property of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole and the same shall not be released, stayed, vacated or otherwise dismissed within ten (10) days after issue or levy; or
Judgments
(i)            .  The Operative Documents, taken as a whole, shall cease to provide the Administrative Agent or the Participants the practical realization of the material rights and remedies intended to be provided thereunder or be asserted by the Lessee or any of its Subsidiaries not to be a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Lessee or any of its Subsidiaries enforceable in accordance with its terms; or any Lien granted by the Lessee under any Operative Document shall, taken as a whole, terminate or cease to be effective against the Lessee; or the Lessee shall directly contest the effectiveness, validity, binding nature or enforceability of any Lien granted, or purported to be granted, by the Lessee under any Operative Document; or
Operative Documents; Liens
 
20
(j)            .  (i) an ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Lessee under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000, or (ii) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000; or
ERISA
(k)          
[Reserved];
(l)              All or a material part of the Property is destroyed or suffers an actual or constructive loss or material damage in connection with any Casualty or Condemnation, and in any such case, the Property ceases to be operational for a period beyond the Expiration Date or beyond the later of (i) one hundred eighty (180) days after the receipt of any insurance awards or condemnation proceeds in connection with such Casualty or Condemnation and (ii) three hundred sixty (360) days after the occurrence of such Casualty or Condemnation, unless, in any such case, the Lessee shall have submitted to the Lessor a plan of restoration or repair of the Property and the Lessor, in its sole discretion (after consultation with the other Participants) shall have consented to such plan of restoration or repair.
Casualty or Condemnation.
SECTION 16.2.  .  Upon the occurrence of any Lease Event of Default of the type described in clause (f) or (g) of Section 16.1, the Property Cost, together with all accrued Basic Rent, Supplemental Rent and fees and other obligations of the Lessee accrued under the Operative Documents, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Lessee.  Upon the occurrence of any Lease Event of Default other than a Lease Event of Default of the type described in clause (f) or (g) of Section 16.1, and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Lessor may, and at the request of the Required Participants (but subject to the terms and restrictions of Section 16.16 of the Participation Agreement) shall, by notice to the Lessee, declare the Property Cost then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part in which case any portion of the Property Cost not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the Property Cost (or the portion thereof so declared to be due and payable), together with all accrued Basic Rent, Supplement Rent and all fees and other obligations of the Lessee accrued under the Operative Documents, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Lessee.
Remedies
In addition, upon the occurrence of any Lease Event of Default and at any time thereafter so long as such Lease Event of Default is continuing, the Lessor may, and at the request of the Required Participants (but subject to the terms and restrictions of Section 16.16 of the Participation Agreement) shall, do one or more of the following (and in such order) as the Lessor or the Required Participants in its (or their) sole discretion shall determine, without limiting any other right or remedy the Lessor may have on account of such Lease Event of Default (including, without limitation, the obligation of the Lessee to purchase the Property as set forth in Section 18.3):
21
 
(a)           The Lessor may, by notice to the Lessee, rescind or terminate this Lease as to any part of the Property or all of the Property as of the date specified in such notice; (i) no reletting, reentry or taking of possession of the Property (or any portion thereof) by the Lessor will be construed as an election on the Lessor's part to terminate this Lease unless a written notice of such intention is given to the Lessee, (ii) notwithstanding any reletting, reentry or taking of possession, the Lessor may at any time thereafter elect to terminate this Lease for a continuing Lease Event of Default and (iii) no act or thing done by the Lessor or any of its agents, representatives or employees and no agreement accepting a surrender of the Property shall be valid unless the same be made in writing and executed by the Lessor;
provided, however
(b)           The Lessor may (i) demand that the Lessee, and the Lessee shall upon the written demand of the Lessor, return the Property promptly to the Lessor in the manner and condition required by, and otherwise in accordance with all of the provisions of, Articles VII and IX and Section 8.3 hereof as if the Property were being returned at the end of the Lease Term, and the Lessor shall not be liable for the reimbursement of the Lessee for any costs and expenses incurred by the Lessee in connection therewith and (ii) without prejudice to any other remedy which the Lessor may have for possession of the Property, and to the extent and in the manner permitted by Applicable Law, enter upon the Property and take immediate possession of (to the exclusion of the Lessee) the Property or any part thereof and expel or remove the Lessee and any other Person who may be occupying the Property, by summary proceedings or otherwise, all without liability to the Lessee for or by reason of such entry or taking of possession, whether for the restoration of damage to property caused by such taking or otherwise and, in addition to the Lessor's other damages, the Lessee shall be responsible for all costs and expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Lessor and/or any other Participant in connection with any reletting, including, without limitation, reasonable brokers' fees and all costs of any alterations or repairs made by the Administrative Agent, the Lessor or any other Participant;
(c)           As more fully set forth in the Lessor Mortgage, the Lessor may sell all or any part of the Property at public or private sale, as the Lessor may determine;
(d)           The Lessor may, at its option, elect not to terminate this Lease and continue to collect all Basic Rent, Supplemental Rent, and all other amounts due to the Lessor (together with all costs of collection) and enforce the Lessee's obligations under this Lease as and when the same become due, or are to be performed, and at the option of the Lessor, upon any abandonment of the Property by the Lessee or re-entry of same by the Lessor, the Lessor may enforce, by suit or otherwise, all other covenants and conditions hereof to be performed or complied with by the Lessee hereunder and to exercise all other remedies permitted by Applicable Law;
(e)           Unless the Property has been sold in its entirety, the Lessor may, whether or not the Lessor shall have exercised or shall thereafter at any time exercise any of its rights under clause (b), (c) or (d) of this Section 16.2 with respect to the Property or any portions thereof, demand, by written notice to the Lessee specifying a date (a ) not earlier than five (5) business Days after the date of such notice,
"Termination Date"
22
that the Lessee purchase the Property on such Termination Date for a price equal to the Property Cost all accrued and unpaid Basic Rent and all other amounts due and owing under the Operative Documents in accordance with the provisions of Section 18.1 (notwithstanding clauses (a) and (c) of such Section);
plus
(f)            The Lessor may exercise any other right or remedy that may be available to it under Applicable Law, including any and all rights or remedies under the Security Documents, or proceed by appropriate court action (legal or equitable) to enforce the terms hereof or to recover damages for the breach hereof.  Separate suits may be brought to collect any such damages for any period(s), and such suits shall not in any manner prejudice the Lessor's right to collect any such damages for any subsequent period(s), or the Lessor may defer any such suit until after the expiration of the Lease Term, in which event such suit shall be deemed not to have accrued until the expiration of the Lease Term;
(g)           The Lessor may retain and apply against the Property Cost and all other amounts due and owing by the Lessee under the Operative Documents all sums which the Lessor would, absent such Lease Event of Default, be required to pay to, or turn over to, the Lessee pursuant to the terms of this Lease and upon payment in full of the Property Cost all accrued and unpaid Basic Rent and all other amounts due and owing under the Operative Documents from such sums, the Property shall be conveyed to Lessee in accordance with Section 18.4 of this Lease;
plus
(h)           If a Lease Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Lessor, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, as a matter of right and with notice to the Lessee, shall have the right to apply to any court having jurisdiction to appoint a receiver or receivers of the Property, and the Lessee hereby irrevocably consents to any such appointment.  Any such receiver(s) shall have all of the usual powers and duties of receivers in like or similar cases and all of the powers and duties of the Lessor in case of entry, and shall continue as such and exercise such powers until the date of confirmation of the sale of the Property unless such receivership is sooner terminated;
(i)            To the maximum extent permitted by law, the Lessee hereby waives the benefit of any appraisement, valuation, stay, extension, reinstatement and redemption laws now or hereafter in force and all rights of marshaling in the event of any sale of the Property or any interest therein;
(j)            By notice to the Lessee after the occurrence and during the continuance of a Lease Event of Default, the Lessor may terminate the Lessee's right to possession of the Property.  A notice given in connection with unlawful detainer proceedings specifying a time within which to cure a default shall terminate the Lessee's right to possession if the Lessee fails to cure the default within the time specified in the notice.  Upon termination of the Lessee's right to possession and without further demand or notice, the Lessee shall surrender possession and vacate the Property and deliver possession thereof, and the Lessor may re-enter the Property and remove any persons in possession thereof.  Upon such termination of the Lessee's right to possession, this Lease shall terminate and the Administrative Agent (on behalf of the Secured Parties) may recover from the Lessee:
23
 
(i)            The worth at the time of award of the unpaid Rent (including, without limitation, Basic Rent and Supplemental Rent) which had been earned at the time of termination:
(ii)           The worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid Rent (including, without limitation, Basic Rent and Supplemental Rent) which would have been earned after termination until the time of award exceeds the amount of such rental loss that the Lessee proves could have been reasonably avoided;
(iii)          The worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid Rent for the balance of the Lease Term (without giving effect to the early termination of this Lease) after the time of award exceeds the amount of such rental loss that the Lessee proves could be reasonably avoided;
(iv)          Any other amount necessary to compensate the Lessor, its successors and assigns for all the detriment proximately caused by the Lessee's failure to perform the Lessee's obligation under the Lease or which in the ordinary, course of things would be likely to result therefrom, including, but not limited to, the costs and expenses (including without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees, advertising costs and brokers' commissions) of recovering possession of the Property, removing persons or property therefrom, placing the Property in good order, condition, and repair, preparing and altering the Property for reletting, and all other costs and expenses of reletting; and
(v)           Such other amounts in addition to or in lieu of the foregoing as may be permitted from time to time by applicable California law.
The of the amounts referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above, is computed by allowing interest at the Default Rate.  The worth at the time of award of the amount referred to in clause (iii) above is computed by discounting such amount at the discount rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, California at the time of award one percent (1%).
"worth at the time of award"
plus
(k)           The Lessor shall be entitled to enforce payment of the indebtedness and performance of the obligations secured hereby and to exercise all rights and powers under this instrument or under any of the other Operative Documents or other agreement or any laws now or hereafter in force, notwithstanding some or all of the obligations secured hereby may now or hereafter be otherwise secured, whether by deed of trust, mortgage, security agreement, pledge, lien, assignment or otherwise.  Neither the acceptance of this instrument nor its enforcement, shall prejudice or in any manner affect the Lessor's right to realize upon or enforce any other security now or hereafter held by the Lessor, it being agreed that the Lessor shall be entitled to enforce this instrument and any other security now or hereafter held by the Lessor in such order and manner as the Lessor may determine in its absolute discretion.  No remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Lessor is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy herein or by law provided or permitted, but each shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy
24
given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute.  Every power or remedy given by any of the Operative Documents to the Lessor or to which it may otherwise be entitled, may be exercised, concurrently or independently, from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient by the Lessor.  In no event shall the Lessor, in the exercise of the remedies provided in this instrument (including, without limitation, in connection with the assignment of rents to Lessor, or the appointment of a receiver and the entry of such receiver onto all or any part of the Property), be deemed a "," and the Lessor shall not in any way be made liable for any act, either of commission or omission, in connection with the exercise of such remedies.
mortgagee in possession
(l)            In addition to the foregoing remedies, upon the occurrence or existence of any Lease Event of Default, the Administrative Agent may exercise any other right, power or remedy available to it under any of the Operative Documents or otherwise by law, either by suit in equity or by action at law, or both.
The Lessee acknowledges and agrees that upon the declaration of a Lease Event of Default the amount due and owing by it to the Lessor hereunder shall be the Property Cost all other amounts then owing under the Operative Documents (including all accrued and unpaid Contingent Payments) and that, to the maximum extent permitted by law, the Lessee waives any right to contest the Property Cost such other amounts as the liquidated sum due upon acceleration of this instrument.
plus
plus
SECTION 16.3.    If, pursuant to the exercise by the Lessor of its remedies pursuant to this Section 16.3, the Property Cost, all accrued and unpaid Basic Rent and all other amounts due and owing from the Lessee under this Lease and the other Operative Documents have been paid in full, then the Lessor shall remit to the Lessee any excess amounts received by the Lessor and, at the sole cost and expense of the Lessee, return the Property to the Lessee in accordance with Section 18.4 (and, at the request of the Lessor, the Lessee shall be obligated to accept such return of the Property).  The obligation to deliver such excess to the Lessee shall survive this Lease.
Excess Amounts.
SECTION 16.4.  .  Subject to the foregoing, if this Lease shall be terminated pursuant to Section 16.2, the Lessee waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, (a) any notice of re-entry or the institution of legal proceedings to obtain re-entry or possession; (b) any right of redemption, re-entry or repossession except as expressly provided herein; (c) the benefit of any laws now or hereafter in force exempting property from liability for rent or for debt or limiting the Lessor with respect to the election of remedies; and (d) any other rights which might otherwise limit or modify any of the Lessor's rights or remedies under this Article XVI.
Waiver of Certain Rights
ARTICLE XVII LESSOR'S RIGHT TO CURE
SECTION 17.1.  .  The Lessor, without waiving or releasing any obligation or Lease Event of Default, may (but shall be under no obligation to) after reasonable prior written notice to the Lessee remedy any Lease Event of
The Lessor's Right to Cure the Lessee's Lease Defaults
25
Default for the account and at the sole cost and expense of the Lessee, including the failure by the Lessee to maintain the insurance required by Article XIII, and may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, and notwithstanding any right of quiet enjoyment in favor of the Lessee, enter upon the Property after three (3) days' prior written notice to the Lessee of such entry for such purpose and take all such action thereon as may be necessary or appropriate therefor; , that no prior written notice shall be required with respect to any such remedy or entry after the occurrence and during the continuance of a Lease Event of Default.  No such entry shall be deemed an eviction of the Lessee.  All reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses so incurred (including fees and expenses of counsel), together with interest thereon at the Default Rate from the date on which such sums or expenses are paid by the Lessor, shall be paid by the Lessee to the Lessor as Supplemental Rent.
provided, however
ARTICLE XVIII PURCHASE PROVISIONS
SECTION 18.1.  .  Subject to the conditions contained herein, the Lessee shall have the irrevocable option on any Business Day to purchase all (but not less than all) of the Property at a price (theequal to the Property Cost outstanding on the date of such purchase, all accrued and unpaid Rent and all other amounts (including Break Costs (if any)) then due under the Operative Documents (all such amounts, in the aggregate, the ).  The Lessee's exercise of its option pursuant to this Section 18.1 shall be subject to the following conditions:
Purchase of the Property
"Purchase Price"
)
plus
"Property Balance"
(a)           the Lessee shall have delivered a Purchase Notice to the Lessor not less than forty-five (45) days prior to such purchase, specifying the date of such purchase; and
(b)           the Lessee shall not have given notice of its intention to exercise the Remarketing Option (or, if such notice has been given, the same shall have been irrevocably rescinded).
If the Lessee exercises its option pursuant to this Section 18.1 then, upon receipt by the Administrative Agent (as assignee of the Lessor) of all amounts due in connection therewith, the Lessor shall transfer to the Lessee or its designee all of the Lessor's right, title and interest in and to the Property in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 18.4, such transfer to be effective as of the date specified in the Purchase Notice.  The Lessee may designate, in a notice given to the Lessor not less than ten (10) Business Days prior to the closing of such purchase (time being of the essence), the transferee or transferees to whom the conveyance shall be made (if other than to the Lessee), in which case such conveyance shall (subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein) be made to such designee; , that such designation of a transferee or transferees shall not cause the Lessee to be released, fully or partially, from any of its obligations under this Lease, including, without limitation, the obligation to pay to the Lessor the Purchase Price on the date specified in the applicable Purchase Notice.
provided, however
SECTION 18.2.  .  Unless the Lessee shall have (a) purchased the Property pursuant to its Purchase Option under Section 18.1, (b) exercised the Remarketing Option pursuant to Section 20.1 and satisfied all of the Return Conditions, or (c)
Expiration Date Purchase of the Property
26
properly exercised or be deemed to have exercised the Renewal Option (if then available) pursuant to Section 19.1, then the Lessee (or its designee) shall purchase all (but not less than all) of the Property for the Purchase Price on the Expiration Date and, upon the Lessor's receipt of all amounts due in connection therewith, the Lessor shall transfer to the Lessee or its designee all of the Lessor's right, title and interest in and to the Property in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 18.4, such transfer to be effective as of the Expiration Date.  The Lessee may designate, in a notice given to the Lessor not less than ten (10) business Days prior to the Expiration Date (time being of the essence), the transferee or transferees to whom the conveyance shall be made (if other than to the Lessee), in which case such conveyance shall (subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein) be made to such designee; , that such designation of a transferee or transferees shall not cause the Lessee to be released, fully or partially, from any of its obligations under this Lease, including, without limitation, the obligation to pay to the Lessor the Purchase Price on the Expiration Date
provided, however
SECTION 18.3.  .  The Lessee shall be obligated to purchase for an amount equal to the Property Balance all of the interest of the Lessor in the Property (notwithstanding any prior election to exercise its Purchase Option pursuant to Section 18.1) automatically and without notice upon the occurrence of any Lease Event of Default described in Section 16.1(f) or 16.1(g).  Any purchase under this Section 18.3 shall be in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 18.4.
Acceleration of Purchase Obligation
SECTION 18.4.    In connection with any termination of this Lease with respect to the Property pursuant to the terms of Article XV or upon the Lessor's receipt of the Property Cost and all accrued and unpaid Basic Rent and other amounts due and owing under the Operative Documents pursuant to the Lessor's exercise of remedies under Section 16.2, or in connection with the Lessee's purchase of the Property in accordance with Section 18.1, then, upon the date on which this Lease is to terminate and upon tender by the Lessee of the amounts set forth in Article XV, Article XVI or Section 18.1, as applicable:
Provisions Relating to the Exercise of Purchase Option or Purchase Obligation.
(a)           the Lessor shall execute and deliver to the Lessee (or to the Lessee's designee) at the Lessee's cost and expense:  (i) a deed with respect to the Property and an assignment of the Ground Lease; (ii) a bill of sale with respect to the interest of the Lessor in all items of personalty or Equipment constituting part of the Property; and (iii) an assignment of the Lessor's entire interest in the Property (which shall include an assignment of all of the right, title and interest of the Lessor in and to any Casualty or Condemnation proceeds or awards with respect to the Property not previously received by the Lessor and an assignment of leases of the Property), in each containing no representations or warranties of the Lessor other than representations regarding the absence of Lessor Liens attributable to the Lessor, and in recordable form and otherwise in conformity with local custom and free and clear of the Lien of the Lessor Mortgage and any Lessor Liens;
(b)           the Property shall be conveyed to the Lessee and in its then present physical condition; and
"AS IS"
27
 
(c)           the Lessor shall execute and deliver to Lessee and the Lessee's title insurance company an affidavit as to the Lessor's title and Lessor Liens and shall execute and deliver to Lessee a statement of termination of this Lease.
ARTICLE XIX EXTENSION OF EXPIRATION DATE
SECTION 19.1.  .  The Lessee has the option (the ) to extend the Expiration Date subject to, and in accordance with, the terms and conditions of Article XI of the Participation Agreement.
Extension of Expiration Date
"Renewal Option"
ARTICLE XX REMARKETING OPTION
SECTION 20.1.  .  Subject to the fulfillment of each of the conditions set forth in this Section 20.1 and in Section 20.2 (such conditions, collectively, the , the Lessee shall have the option (the to market all (but not less than all) of the Property on behalf of the Lessor.
Option to Remarket
"
Return Conditions"
)
"Remarketing Option"
)
The Lessee's effective exercise and consummation of the Remarketing Option shall be subject to the due and timely fulfillment of each of the following provisions as to the Property as of the dates set forth below:
(a)           Not later than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the Scheduled Lease Term Termination Date, the Lessee shall give to the Lessor written notice of the Lessee's exercise of the Remarketing Option, which exercise shall be irrevocable.  Failure by the Lessee to give timely notice shall be deemed to be an election by the Lessee, without further act thereby, of its Purchase Option for all of the Property.
(b)           Not later than ninety (90) days prior to the Scheduled Lease Term Termination Date, the Lessee shall deliver to the Lessor an Environmental Audit for the Property.  Such Environmental Audit shall be prepared by an environmental consultant selected by the Lessor in the Lessor's reasonable discretion and shall contain conclusions reasonably satisfactory to the Lessor as to the environmental status of the Property.  If any such Environmental Audit indicates any exceptions that are required to be remediated under any Applicable Law, the Lessee shall have also delivered prior to the Scheduled Lease Term Termination Date, a Phase Two environmental assessment by such environmental consultant and a written statement by such environmental consultant indicating that all such exceptions have been remedied in compliance with Applicable Law.
(c)           On the date of the Lessee's notice to the Lessor of the Lessee's exercise of the Remarketing Option, no Lease Event of Default shall exist, and thereafter, no Lease Event of Default shall exist.
28
 
(d)           All Modifications, restoration, rebuilding and remediation of the Property required under this Lease shall have been completed prior to the date on which the Lessor receives notice of the Lessee's intention to exercise the Remarketing Option, and, on or prior to the Expiration Date, the Property shall be in good and full operating condition (ordinary wear and tear excepted).
(e)           The Property shall be free and clear of all Liens (other than Permitted Property Liens of the type described in clauses (a), (c), (g) and (h) of the definition thereof), and any Permitted Property Lien that was contested by the Lessee shall have been removed.  If requested by the Lessor, all subleases of the Property shall have been terminated prior to the Expiration Date.  The Lessee shall not have been excused pursuant to Section 12.1 from complying with any Applicable Law that involved the extension of the ultimate imposition of such Applicable Law beyond the Scheduled Lease Term Termination Date.
(f)            All Necessary Permits and other agreements necessary for the use and operation of the Property shall be in effect and shall on the Expiration Date be assigned or transferred to the Lessor to the extent assignable or transferable.
(g)           The Lessee shall permit inspection of the Property and any maintenance records relating to the Property by the Participants, the Administrative Agent and any prospective purchasers, and shall allow the Participants, the Administrative Agent and any prospective purchaser reasonable access to the Property for the purpose of inspecting the same.
(h)           During the Marketing Period, the Lessee shall, as nonexclusive agent for the Lessor, use reasonable commercial efforts to sell the Lessor's interest in the Property for not less than the Fair Market Sales Value, and shall use reasonable commercial efforts to procure bids from one or more prospective purchasers.  No such purchaser shall be the Lessee or an Affiliate of the Lessee, but the Lessor and the other Participants may submit one or more bids for the Property.  The Lessee shall deliver to the Lessor and the other Participants all bids for the Property received from prospective purchasers within five (5) days of the Lessee's receipt of each such bid.
bona fide
(i)            The Lessee shall have obtained, at its cost and expense, all required governmental and regulatory consents and approvals and shall have made all filings as required by Applicable Law in order to carry out and complete the transfer of the Property and permit the operation of the Property by the Lessor (or any designee of the Lessor) or a third-party purchaser.  As to the Lessor, any such sale shall be made on an basis without representation or warranty by the Lessor other than the absence of Lessor Liens.
"as is, with all faults"
(j)            The Lessee shall pay directly, and not from the sale proceeds, all prorations and credits, whether incurred by the Lessor or the Lessee, including without limitation, the cost of all environmental reports, appraisals required under Section 13.2 of the Participation Agreement and the Lessee's attorneys' fees, and the Lessee shall not incur Sales Costs in connection with the sale of the Property in an aggregate amount in excess of 5% of the Property Cost without the prior written consent of the Lessor.
29
 
(k)           The Lessee shall pay to the Lessor on or prior to the Expiration Date the amounts, if any, required to be paid pursuant to Section 13.2 of the Participation Agreement.
(l)            The Net Remarketing Proceeds shall be paid directly to the Lessor and shall be distributed by the Lessor to the Administrative Agent for distribution in accordance with Section 7.4 of the Participation Agreement.
(m)          The Lessee shall pay to the Lessor (or in the case of Supplemental Rent, to the Person entitled thereto), no later than one (1) Business Day prior to the Scheduled Lease Term Termination Date, an amount equal to the sum of (i) the aggregate outstanding Property Cost (after giving effect to the distribution of the Net Remarketing Proceeds pursuant to Section 7.4 of the Participation Agreement) (ii) all accrued and unpaid Basic Rent and all other amounts under the Operative Documents which have accrued or will accrue prior to or as of the Scheduled Lease Term Termination Date, in the type of funds specified in Section 3.4 hereof; , that in no event shall the amounts paid by the Lessee pursuant to clause (i) of this Section 20.1(m) exceed the Maximum Recourse Amount.
plus
provided, however
SECTION 20.2.  .  If the Lessee elects the Remarketing Option then the Lessee shall, in addition to making the payment required pursuant to Section 20.1(m) above, at its own cost and expense, do each of the following:
Conveyance Upon Remarketing
(a)           on or prior to the Expiration Date, execute and deliver to the Lessor (or the Lessor's designee) or, if the Lessor has accepted any bid for the Property, to the applicable purchaser of the Property, the following: (i) a deed covering all of the Lessee's right, title and interest in, to and under the Property, containing representations and warranties of grantor to the Lessor (or such other Person) solely regarding the absence of Liens (other than Lessor Liens and the Liens of the Security Documents), (ii) a bill of sale conveying to the Lessor (or such other Person) all of the Lessee's interest in all Equipment and other personal property constituting part of the Property and (iii) an assignment of all of the Lessee's interest in the Property (which shall include an assignment of all of the Lessee's right, title and interest in and to all Necessary Permits (to the extent assignable) and all awards, compensation and insurance proceeds payable in connection with any Casualty or Condemnation affecting the Property and an assignment of all subleases relating to the Property), in each case in recordable form and otherwise in conformity with local custom and free and clear of any Liens attributable to the Lessee;
"as is"
(b)           on or prior to the Expiration Date, execute and deliver to the Lessor and the Lessor's title insurance company an affidavit as to the absence of any Liens (other than Permitted Property Liens of the type described in clauses (a), (b), (c), (g) and (h) of the definition thereof), and shall execute and deliver to the Lessor a statement of termination of this Lease;
30
 
(c)           on or prior to the Expiration Date, vacate the Property and transfer possession of the Property to the Lessor (or its designee) or, if the Lessor has accepted any bid for the Property, to the applicable purchaser of the Property, by surrendering the same into the possession of the Lessor or such Person, as the case may be, in the condition required by Section 20.1, free and clear of all Liens (other than Permitted Property Liens of the type described in clauses (a), (b), (c), (g) and (h) of the definition thereof), in good condition (as modified by Modifications permitted by this Lease), ordinary wear and tear excepted, and in compliance with Applicable Law (including Environmental Laws); and
(d)           for a period of up to one (1) year after the Expiration Date, cooperate reasonably with the Lessor and/or any Person designated by the Lessor to receive the Property, which cooperation shall include reasonable efforts with respect to the following, all of which the Lessee shall do on or before the Expiration Date for the Property or as soon thereafter as is reasonably practicable: providing copies of all books and records regarding the maintenance and ownership of the Property and all know-how, data and technical information relating thereto, providing a current copy of the applicable Plans and Specifications, granting or assigning all Necessary Permits (to the extent assignable) and cooperating reasonably in seeking and obtaining all necessary Governmental Action.  The obligations of the Lessee under this paragraph shall survive the expiration or termination of this Lease.
If one or more of the Return Conditions shall not be fulfilled as of the applicable date for such fulfillment, then the Remarketing Option shall be null and void (whether or not it has been theretofore exercised by the Lessee), in which event all of the Lessee's rights under this Article XX shall immediately terminate and the Lessee shall purchase from the Lessor, and the Lessor shall convey to the Lessee in accordance with the provisions of Section 18.4, on the Expiration Date all of the Lessor's interest in the Property for an amount equal to the Property Balance.
SECTION 20.3.  .  The Lessor in its sole discretion shall decide whether to accept any bid obtained by the Lessee for the purchase of the Property, and the Lessee shall not have any right, power or authority to bind the Lessor or the Participants in connection with any proposed sale of the Property; , that the Lessor shall accept any all-cash bid from a purchaser (other than a prospective purchaser that is the Lessee or an Affiliate of the Lessee) that (a) has offered the highest bid for the Property and (b) is in an amount that exceeds the sum of (i) the Property Cost, (ii) all Sales Costs incurred in connection with the sale of the Property.  The Lessor shall have the right, but shall be under no duty, to solicit bids, to inquire into the efforts of the Lessee to obtain bids or otherwise to take action in connection with any such sale.
Acceptance of Bids
provided, however
bona fide
plus
SECTION 20.4.  .  During the Marketing Period, the obligation of the Lessee to pay Rent with respect to the Property (including the installment of Rent due on the Expiration Date) shall continue undiminished until payment in full of the Maximum Recourse Amount and all accrued and unpaid Basic Rent and Supplemental Rent due to the Lessor with respect to the Property under the Operative Documents to which the Lessee is a party.
Certain Obligations Continue
 
31
ARTICLE XXI
ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATES; ACCEPTANCE OF SURRENDER; NO MERGER OF TITLE
SECTION 21.1.  .  At any time and from time to time upon not less than thirty (30) business Days' prior request by the Lessor or the Lessee (the ), the other party (whichever party shall have received such request, the ) shall furnish to the Requesting Party a certificate signed by an individual having the office of vice president or higher in the Certifying Party certifying that this Lease is in full force and effect (or that this Lease is in full force and effect as modified and setting forth the modifications); the dates to which the Basic Rent and Supplemental Rent have been paid; to the best knowledge of the signer of such certificate, whether or not the Requesting Party is in default under any of its obligations hereunder (and, if so, the nature of such alleged default); and such other matters under this Lease as the Requesting Party may reasonably request.  Any such certificate furnished pursuant to this Article XXI may be relied upon by the Requesting Party, and any existing or prospective mortgagee, purchaser or lender, and any accountant or auditor, of, from or to the Requesting Party (or any Affiliate thereof).
Estoppel Certificates
"Requesting Party"
"Certifying Party"
SECTION 21.2.    No surrender to the Lessor of this Lease or of the Property or of any part thereof or of any interest therein shall be valid or effective unless agreed to and accepted in writing by the Lessor and the Administrative Agent, and no act by the Lessor or the Administrative Agent or any representative or agent of the Lessor or the Administrative Agent, other than a written acceptance, shall constitute an acceptance of any such surrender.
Acceptance of Surrender.
SECTION 21.3.  .  There shall be no merger of this Lease or of the leasehold estate created hereby by reason of the fact that the same Person may acquire, own or hold, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, (a) this Lease or the leasehold estate created hereby or any interest in this Lease or such leasehold estate, (b) the fee or ground leasehold estate in the Property, except as may expressly be stated in a written instrument duly executed and delivered by the appropriate Person or (c) a beneficial interest in the Lessor.
No Merger of Title
ARTICLE XXII
GRANT OF LIEN; FORECLOSURE OF INTEREST; FURTHER ASSURANCES
SECTION 22.1. 
Grant of Lien by Lessee; Foreclosure of Lessee's Interest.
(a)           The Lessee hereby mortgages, grants, bargains, sells, releases, confirms, conveys, assigns, transfers and sets over to FIRST AMERICAN TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY, as trustee (together with all successor trustees, the ) IN TRUST, WITH POWER OF SALE, for the benefit of the Lessor and each Participant, and grants to the Trustee for the benefit of the Lessor and each Participant a security interest in, and all of the Lessee's right, title and interest in and to the Property, including, without limitation, all buildings, structures and other improvements, and all fixtures and other property now or hereafter attached to or affixed to any such buildings, structures or other improvements, and any additions and
"Trustee"
32
alterations thereto or replacements thereof, now or hereafter built, constructed or located upon the Property, all rents, additional rents, issues, income, revenues, distributions, royalties and profits now or in the future payable in respect of the Property, together with all of the right, power and authority of the Lessee to alter, modify or change the terms, conditions and provisions of this Lease and any other lease pertaining to the Property, to consent to any request made by a tenant or landlord pursuant thereto, or to surrender, cancel or terminate the same or to accept any surrender, cancellation or termination of the same, together with all of the options, rights, powers and privileges of the Lessee under any lease pertaining to the Property, whether heretofore or hereafter existing, including, without limitation, the rights and options to purchase the Property contained in Article XVIII of this Lease, and all present and future right, title and interest of the Lessee in and to (i) all refunds, tax abatement agreements, rebates, reserves, deferred payments, deposits, cost savings, awards and payments of any kind due from or payable by (A) any Governmental Authority, or (B) any insurance or utility company, in each case under clause (A) or (B) above in respect of the Property, and (ii) all refunds, rebates and payments of any kind due from or payable by any Governmental Authority for any taxes, assessments, or governmental or quasi-governmental charges or levies imposed upon the Lessee in respect of the Property, and all plans and specifications, designs, drawings and other information, materials and matters heretofore or hereafter prepared relating to the Property or any construction on the Property, all proceeds (including claims and demands therefor) of the conversion, voluntary or involuntary, of any of the foregoing into cash or liquidated claims, including without limitation the proceeds of insurance and condemnation awards in respect of the Property or any portion thereof, all additional estates, rights and interests hereafter acquired by the Lessee in all or any or the Property or any portion thereof, together with all proceeds of the conversion, whether voluntary or involuntary, of any of the Property into cash or other liquid claims, including without limitation, all awards, payments or proceeds, including interest thereon, and the right to receive the same, which may be made as a result of any casualty, any exercise of the right of eminent domain or deed in lieu thereof, any injury to the Property and any defect in title in the Property or other matter insured under any policy of title insurance, together with attorney's fees, costs and disbursements incurred by the Lessor in connection with the collection of such awards, payments and proceeds, and the Lessee further grants to the Lessor, pursuant to the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in any applicable jurisdiction, a security interest in all present and future right, title and interest of the Lessee in and to any portion of the foregoing property for which a security interest may be created under such Uniform Commercial Code.
To have and to hold the same whether now owned or held or hereafter acquired unto the Trustee, its successors-in-trust forever, IN TRUST, WITH POWER OF SALE, to secure to the Lessor the payment of Basic Rent, Supplemental Rent, Property Cost and all other sums owing to the Lessor and the other Participants under this Lease and the other Operative Documents and the performance and observance of the terms, covenants, warranties, conditions, agreements and obligations under this Lease and the other Operative Documents, together with interest thereon, and all other amounts payable by Lessee under the Operative Documents (collectively, the ).  If the Lessee shall pay all sums due under this Lease and the other Operative Documents when due according to the terms thereof and shall otherwise fully and properly perform and comply with all of the obligations, agreements, terms and conditions of this Lease and the other Operative Documents, then this conveyance shall become null and void.
"Secured Obligations"
33
(b)           In the context of the exercise of remedies under the Operative Documents, including, without limitation, in the case of any insolvency or receivership proceedings or a petition under the Bankruptcy Code or any other applicable insolvency laws or statute of the United States of America or any State or Commonwealth thereof affecting the Lessee or the Lessor, or any enforcement or collection actions, the transactions evidenced by this Lease are loans made by the Lessor as an unrelated third party lender to the Lessee secured by all of the Property, all to secure such loans, effective on the date hereof to have and to hold such interests in the Property unto the Trustee for the benefit of the Lessor and its successors and assigns, forever, that these presents are upon the express condition that, if all amounts due under this Lease and the other Operative Documents shall have been paid and satisfied in full, then this instrument and the estate hereby granted shall cease and become void.
provided always
(c)           In the event of the occurrence of any Lease Event of Default, then the entire unpaid balance of all sums due under this Lease and the other amounts accrued thereon shall, at the option of the owner thereof and without notice, immediately become due and payable for all purposes, whether or not due according to the maturity date or dates thereof; and all other indebtedness, the payment of which is secured hereby, shall likewise become due and payable.  The Trustee, the Lessor and each of them are authorized prior or subsequent to the institution of any foreclosure proceedings to enter upon, or to seek the appointment of a receiver from a court of competent jurisdiction to enter upon, all or any of the Property or any part thereof and to take possession of all or any of the Property or any part thereof and exercise without interference from the Lessee, any and all rights which the Lessee has with respect to the management, possession, operation, protection or preservation of the Property.
Upon the occurrence of any Lease Event of Default, the Lessor shall have the power and authority, after proper notice and lapse of such time as may be required by law, to cause the Trustee to sell all or any of the Property or any portion thereof by notifying the Trustee of that election and depositing with the Trustee this instrument and receipts and evidence of expenditures made and secured hereby as the Trustee may reasonably require.  Upon receipt of any such notice from the Lessor, the Trustee shall cause to be recorded, published and delivered to the Lessee such notice of default and election to sell as is then required by applicable statutory authority and by this instrument, which notice shall set forth, among other things, the nature of the breach(es) or default(s), the action(s) required to effect a cure thereof and the time period within which that cure may be effected.  If no cure is effected within the statutory time limits following recordation of the notice of Default and election to sell and after notice of sale has been given as required by the above-referenced statutes, the Trustee may without further notice or demand sell and convey the Property in accordance with the above-referenced statutes.  The Property may be sold as a whole or in separate lots, parcels or items and in such order as the Lessor may direct, at public auction to the highest bidder for cash in lawful money of the United States payable at the time of sale.  The Trustee shall deliver to such purchaser(s) a good and sufficient deed or deeds conveying the property so sold, but without any covenant or warranty express or implied.  The recitals in such deed of any matter or fact shall be conclusive proof of the truthfulness thereof.  Any Person, including the Lessee, the Trustee, the Lessor or any Participant, may purchase at any sale.  After deducting all costs, fees and expenses of the Lessor, the Administrative Agent and the Trustee, including costs of evidence of title in connection with any sale, the Administrative Agent shall apply the proceeds of sale, in the following order of priority, to payment of the following: (i) , all amounts expended by or for the account of the
first
34
Lessor or the Administrative Agent under the terms hereof and not then repaid, with accrued interest at the Default Rate; and (ii) , all other amounts then due and owing hereunder including, without limitation, all Basic Rent, Supplemental Rent, the full amount of the Property Cost as of the date of sale as if this Lease had been terminated with respect to the Property under Section 18.1 and all other amounts then payable by the Lessee under this Lease and the other Operative Documents, with the Administrative Agent having the right to apply the proceeds of sale to the amounts described above in this clause (ii) in such order, proportion and priority as the Administrative Agent and the Lessor may elect in their sole and absolute discretion.  To the extent permitted by applicable statutes, the Trustee may postpone the sale of all or any portion of the Property by public announcement at the time and place of sale, and from time to time thereafter may again postpone that sale by public announcement or subsequently noticed sale, and without further notice may make such sale at the time fixed at the last postponement or may, in its discretion, give a new notice of sale.  A sale of less than all of the Property or any defective or irregular sale made hereunder shall not exhaust the power of sale provided for herein, and subsequent sales may be made hereunder until all of the Secured Obligations shall have been satisfied or all of the Property shall have been sold in its entirety, without defect or irregularity.  No action of the Lessor, the Administrative Agent or the Trustee based upon the provisions contained herein or contained in the applicable statutes, including, without limitation, the giving of the notice of Default and election to sell or the notice of sale, shall constitute an election of remedies which would preclude the Lessor or its assignee(s) from pursuing judicial foreclosure before a completed sale pursuant to the power of sale contained herein.  The Lessor shall have the right, with the irrevocable consent of the Lessee hereby given and evidenced by the execution of this instrument, to obtain appointment of a receiver by any court of competent jurisdiction without further notice to the Lessee, which receiver shall be authorized and empowered to enter upon and take possession of any or all of the Property, including all personal property used upon or in connection with the real property herein conveyed, to let any or all of the Property, to receive all the rents, issues and profits, if any, which may be due or become due in respect to the leasing of the Property to another party (), and apply the Property Rents after payment of all necessary charges and expenses to reduction of the Secured Obligations in such order, proportion and priority as the Lessor may elect.  At the option of the Lessor, the receiver shall accomplish entry and taking possession of the Property by actual entry and possession or by notice to the Lessee.  The receiver so appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be empowered to issue receiver's certificates for funds advanced by the Lessor and the Participants for the purpose of protecting the value of the Property as security for the Secured Obligations.  The amounts evidenced by receiver's certificates shall bear interest at the Default Rate and may be added to the Secured Obligations if the Lessee or a junior lienholder purchases any or all of the Property at the trustee's sale.  Trustee or any successor acting hereunder may resign and thereupon be discharged of the trusts hereunder upon thirty (30) days' prior written notice to the Lessor and the Administrative Agent.  Regardless of whether the Trustee resigns, the Lessor may, from time to time, substitute a successor or successors to any Trustee named herein or acting hereunder in accordance with any statutory procedure for such substitution; or if the Lessor, in its sole and absolute discretion, so elects, and if permitted by law, the Lessor may substitute such successors or successors by recording, in the office of the recorder of the county or counties where the Property is located, a document executed by the Lessor and containing the name of the original Lessee and Lessor hereunder, the book and page where this instrument (or a memorandum hereof) is recorded (and/or instrument number, as applicable) and the name of the
second
"Property Rents"
35
new Trustee, which instrument shall be conclusive proof of proper substitution of such successor Trustee or Trustees, who shall, without conveyance from the predecessor Trustee, succeed to the rights, powers and duties hereunder.  It is acknowledged that A POWER OF SALE HAS BEEN GRANTED IN THIS INSTRUMENT; A POWER OF SALE MAY ALLOW THE LESSOR AND/OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT (AS ASSIGNEE OF THE LESSOR) TO TAKE THE PROPERTY (OR ANY PORTION THEREOF) AND SELL IT WITHOUT GOING TO COURT IN A FORECLOSURE ACTION UPON DEFAULT BY THE LESSEE UNDER THIS INSTRUMENT.
If (i) the Property shall consist of one or more parcels, whether or not contiguous and whether or not located in the same county, or (ii) in addition to this Lease and the Lessor Mortgage, the Lessor shall now or hereafter hold one or more additional mortgages, liens, deeds of trust or other security (directly or indirectly) for the Secured Obligations upon other property in the State in which the Property is located (whether or not such property is owned by the Lessor or by others) or (iii) both the circumstances described in clauses (i) and (ii) shall be true, then to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Lessor may, in its sole discretion, commence or consolidate in a single foreclosure action all foreclosure proceedings against all such collateral securing the Secured Obligations (including the Property), which action may be brought or consolidated in the courts of any county in which any of such collateral is located.  The Lessee acknowledges that the right to maintain a consolidated foreclosure action is a specific inducement to the Lessor to extend the Advances, and the Lessee expressly and irrevocably waives any objections to the commencement or consolidation of the foreclosure proceedings in a single action and any objections to the laying of venue or based on the grounds of which it may now or hereafter have.  The Lessee further agrees that if the Lessor shall be prosecuting one or more foreclosure or other proceedings against a portion of the Property or against any collateral other than the Property, which collateral directly or indirectly secures the Secured Obligations, or if the Lessor shall have obtained a judgment of foreclosure and sale or similar judgment against such collateral, then, whether or not such proceedings are being maintained or judgments were obtained in or outside the State in which the Property is located, the Lessor may commence or continue foreclosure proceedings and exercise its other remedies granted in this Lease and the Lessor Mortgage against the Property or any part thereof and the Lessee waives any objections to the commencement or continuation of a foreclosure of this Lease and the Lessor Mortgage or exercise of any other remedies hereunder based on such other proceedings or judgments, and waives any right to seek to dismiss, stay, remove, transfer or consolidate either any action under this Lease or the Lessor Mortgage or such other proceedings on such basis.  Neither the commencement nor continuation of proceedings to foreclose this Lease and the Lessor Mortgage nor the exercise of any other rights hereunder or thereunder nor the recovery of any judgment by the Lessor and/or the Administrative Agent (as assignee of the Lessor) in any such proceedings shall prejudice, limit or preclude the right of the Lessor to commence or continue one or more foreclosure or other proceedings or obtain a judgment against any other collateral (either in or outside the State in which the Property is located) which directly or indirectly secures the Secured Obligations, and the Lessee expressly waives any objections to the commencement of, continuation of, or entry of a judgment in such other proceedings or exercise of any remedies in such proceedings based upon any action or judgment connected to this Lease or the Lessor Mortgage, and the Lessee also waives any right to seek to dismiss, stay, remove, transfer or consolidate either such other proceedings or any action under this Lease or the Lessor Mortgage on such basis.
forum non conveniens
36
If the Lessor so elects, the Trustee may sell any personal property covered by this instrument at one or more separate sales in any manner permitted by the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in any applicable jurisdiction.  One or more exercises of the powers herein granted shall not extinguish nor exhaust such powers until all of the Property shall have been sold in its entirety or until the entire amounts evidenced and/or secured by this Lease, the Lessor Mortgage and the other Operative Documents shall have been paid in full.
(d)           With respect to that portion of the Property constituting personal property, for the purpose of securing the Lessee's obligations for the repayment of the above-described Secured Obligations, (i) the Lease shall also be deemed to be a security agreement and financing statement within the meaning of Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in any applicable jurisdiction; (ii) the conveyance provided for hereby shall be deemed to be a grant by the Lessee to the Lessor of a lien and security interest in all of the Lessee's present and future right, title and interest in and to such portion of the Property, including but not limited to the Lessee's leasehold estate therein and all proceeds of the conversion, voluntary or involuntary, of the foregoing into cash, investments, securities or other property, whether in the form of cash, investments, securities or other property to secure such obligations, effective on the date hereof, to have and to hold such interests in the Property unto the Lessor and its successors and assigns, forever, provided always that these presents are upon the express condition that, if all amounts due under this Lease and the other Operative Documents shall have been paid and satisfied in full, then this instrument and the estate hereby granted shall cease and become void; (iii) the possession by the Lessor of notes and such other items of property as constitute instruments, money, negotiable documents or chattel paper shall be deemed to be for purposes of perfecting the security interest pursuant to Section 9-313 of the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in any applicable jurisdiction; and (iv) notifications to Persons holding such property, and acknowledgments, receipts or confirmations from financial intermediaries, bankers or agents (as applicable) of the Lessee shall be deemed to have been given for the purpose of perfecting such security interest under Applicable Law.
"possession by the secured party"
SECTION 22.2.  .  The Lessee shall, to the extent consistent with this Lease, and the Lessor shall, if so directed by the Administrative Agent, take such actions and execute, deliver, file and record such other documents, financing statements, mortgages and deeds of trust as may be necessary to ensure that, if the Lease were deemed to create a security interest in the Property in accordance with this Article XXII, such security interest would be deemed to be a perfected security interest with priority over all Liens (other than Permitted Property Liens) under Applicable Law and will be maintained as such throughout the Lease Term.
Further Assurances
SECTION 22.3.  .  The security interest and mortgage and/or deed of trust created under this Article XXII secures the payment and performance of all Obligations now or hereafter existing under this Lease, the Participation Agreement and each other Operative Document to which the Lessee is or may become a party, whether for Basic Rent, Supplemental Rent (including obligations with respect to the payment of Property Cost and amounts payable pursuant to Section 20.1(m)) costs, fees, expenses or otherwise.
Security for Obligations
37
ARTICLE XXIII
INTENT OF THE PARTIES
SECTION 23.1.  .
Nature of Transaction
(a)           The parties hereto intend that, with respect to the Property and the Lease, (i) for financial accounting purposes with respect to the Lessee, (x) the Lease will be treated as an pursuant to Statement of financial Accounting standards (SFAS) No. 13, as amended, (y) the Lessor will be treated as the owner and the lessor of the Property to which it holds title and the Lessee will be treated as the lessee of the Property, (ii) for federal and all state and local income tax purposes and bankruptcy purposes, (A) the Lease will be treated as a financing arrangement, and (B) the Lessee under the Lease will be treated as the owner of the Property and will be entitled to all tax benefits ordinarily available to an owner of property like such Property for such tax purposes, and (iii) all risks relating to environmental matters shall be borne by the Lessee in accordance with the provisions of the Participation Agreement.
"operating lease"
(b)           The parties hereto intend that, for federal, state, local and foreign tax and regulatory purposes, the Property Balance will be indebtedness of the Lessee secured, , by the Property and the rights to payment of Rent under the Lease, and agree to so treat the Property Balance accordingly for all such purposes.
inter alia
(c)           Specifically, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the parties hereto intend and agree that in the event of any insolvency or receivership proceedings or a petition under the United States bankruptcy laws or any other applicable insolvency laws or statutes of the United States of America or any state or commonwealth thereof affecting the Lessee or any other party to the Participation Agreement or any collection actions, the transactions evidenced by the Operative Documents are loans made to the Lessee by the Lessor (using its own funds as well as funds provided by the Lender and the Purchasers as unrelated third party lenders).
(d)           The Lessor agrees that it will comply with its obligations set forth in the first sentence of Section 13.5(e) of the Participation Agreement.
ARTICLE XXIV
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 24.1.    Anything contained in this Lease to the contrary notwithstanding, all claims against and liabilities of the Lessee or the Lessor arising from events commencing prior to the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease shall survive such expiration or earlier termination.  If any term or provision of this Lease or any application thereof shall be declared invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Lease and any other application of such term or provision shall not be affected thereby.  If any right or option of the Lessee provided in this Lease, including any right or option described in Article XIV, XV, XVIII or XX, would, in the absence of the limitation imposed by this sentence, be invalid or unenforceable as being in violation of the rule against perpetuities or any other rule of law
Survival; Severability; etc.
38
relating to the vesting of an interest in or the suspension of the power of alienation of property, then such right or option shall be exercisable only during the period which shall end twenty-one (21) years after the date of death of the last survivor of the descendants of Franklin D. Roosevelt, the former President of the United States, Henry Ford, the deceased automobile manufacturer, and John D. Rockefeller, the founder of the Standard Oil Company, known to be alive on the date of the execution, acknowledgment and delivery of this Lease.
SECTION 24.2.  .  Subject to the requirements, restrictions and conditions set forth in the Participation Agreement, neither this Lease nor any provision hereof may be amended, waived, discharged or terminated except by an instrument in writing in recordable form signed by the Lessor and the Lessee.
Amendments and Modifications
SECTION 24.3.  .  No failure by the Lessor, any other Participant, the Administrative Agent or the Lessee to insist upon the strict performance of any term hereof or to exercise any right, power or remedy upon a default hereunder, and no acceptance of full or partial payment of Rent during the continuance of any such default, shall constitute a waiver of any such default or of any such term.  To the fullest extent permitted by law, no waiver of any default shall affect or alter this Lease, and this Lease shall continue in full force and effect with respect to any other then existing or subsequent default.
No Waiver
SECTION 24.4.  .  All notices, demands, requests, consents, approvals and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and directed to the address described in, and deemed received in accordance with the provisions of, Section 16.3 of the Participation Agreement.
Notices
SECTION 24.5.  .  All the terms and provisions of this Lease shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Successors and Assigns
SECTION 24.6.  .  The headings and table of contents in this Lease are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings and Table of Contents
SECTION 24.7.  .  This Lease may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but all of which shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
SECTION 24.8.  .  THIS LEASE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
GOVERNING LAW
SECTION 24.9.  .  The parties hereto agree that except as specifically set forth in this Lease or in any other Operative Document, the Lessor shall have no personal liability whatsoever to Lessee or any Participant or their respective successors and assigns for any claim or obligation based on or in respect of this Lease or any of the other Operative Documents or arising in any way from the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby and recourse, if any, shall be solely had against the Lessor's interest in the Property and the Collateral or from payments (other than payments of Yield and payments due to the Lessor with respect to indemnities, reimbursement of expenses or fees, in each case payable to the Lessor for
Liability Limited
39
its own account) received from the Lessee (it being acknowledged and agreed by each party hereto that all such personal liability of the Lessor is expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as consideration for, the delivery by the Lessor of each Operative Document to which it is a party); , that the Lessor shall be liable in its individual capacity (a) for its own willful misconduct or gross negligence, (b) for breach of its representations and warranties set forth in Section 8.2 of the Participation Agreement, (c) for any Lessor Lien attributable to it, and (d) for any Tax based on or measured by any fees, commission or compensation received by it for acting as the Lessor as contemplated by the Operative Documents.
provided, however
SECTION 24.10.  .  The single executed original of this Lease marked on the signature page thereof and containing the receipt thereof of the Administrative Agent therefor on or following the signature page thereof shall be the Original Executed Counterpart of this Lease (the ).  To the extent that this Lease constitutes chattel paper, as such term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in any applicable jurisdiction, no security interest in this Lease may be created through the transfer or possession of any counterpart other than the Original Executed Counterpart.
Original Lease
"THIS COUNTERPART IS THE ORIGINAL EXECUTED COUNTERPART"
"Original Executed Counterpart"
 
40
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Lease be duly executed and delivered as of the date first above written.
 
THIS COUNTERPART IS THE ORIGINAL EXECUTED COUNTERPART.
Receipt of this original counterpart of the foregoing Lease is hereby acknowledged as of the date hereof.
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
dated as of March 26, 2007
among
as Lessee,
ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED,
(Doing Business in California as OHIO SELCO SERVICE CORPORATION), as Lessor,
SELCO SERVICE CORPORATION
as Purchaser,
KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
as Purchaser,
ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED,
as Lender,
KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
and
as Administrative Agent,
KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
with
a Division of Key Equipment Finance Inc.), as Structuring Agent.
KEY LEASE ADVISORY SERVICES (
Extension of Lease Financing of Office Tower Located in City of San Jose, Santa Clara County, California for Adobe Systems Incorporated
Closing Date:  March 26, 2007
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
i
 
ii
 
iii
 
 
iv
Participation Agreement
(this ), dated as of March 26, 2007, is entered into by and among ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (), as the Lessee (the ); SELCO SERVICE CORPORATION, an Ohio corporation doing business in California as OHIO SELCO SERVICE CORPORATION, as Lessor (together with its permitted successors and assigns, the ); KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, and ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED, as the Purchaser (together with their respective permitted successors and assigns, the );KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as the Lender (together with its permitted successors and assigns, the ); and KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as administrative agent for the Participants (together with its permitted successors and assigns in such capacity, the ).
THIS PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT
"Participation Agreement"
"Adobe"
"Lessee"
"Lessor"
"Purchasers"
"Lender"
"Administrative Agent"
W I T N E S S E T H:
, the Lessor and the Lessee previously entered into a lease financing (the ) pursuant to that certain Participation Agreement dated as of September 26, 2001 (the ), in order to construct Improvements on the parcel of land described on hereto (together with all Appurtenant Rights relating thereto, the ;  the Lessor's interest in the Land, together with all Improvements from time to time located on the Land and all attachments and accessions thereto, collectively, the );
WHEREAS
"Prior Transaction"
"Prior Participation Agreement"
Schedule III
"Land"
"Property"
, the Lessor and the Lessee desire to refinance and extend the Prior Transaction;
WHEREAS
, the Lessor desires to continue to lease to the Lessee, and the Lessee desires to continue to lease from the Lessor, the Property;
WHEREAS
, the Lessor is willing to provide the funding of a portion of the costs of (a) the refinancing of the Property and (b) the Transaction Expenses incurred in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby;
WHEREAS
the Purchasers are willing to provide funding for a portion of the foregoing costs by purchasing undivided ownership interests in the Purchased Interests from the Lessor;
WHEREAS,
the Lenders are willing to provide financing for a portion of the foregoing costs by making non-recourse Loans to the Lessor; and
WHEREAS,
, to secure such fundings (a) the Lessor will have the benefit of a first priority Lien on all of the right, title and interest of the Lessee in the Property and (b) the Lenders and Purchasers will have the benefit of (i) a Lien on the Lessor's right, title and interest in the Property and (ii) an assignment of certain of the Lessor's rights against the Lessee under the Lease;
WHEREAS
in consideration of the mutual agreements contained in this Participation Agreement and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION 1.1. .  Unless the context shall otherwise require, capitalized terms used and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in Appendix A hereto for all purposes hereof (as such Appendix A may be amended, supplemented, amended and restated or otherwise modified from time to time, ); and the rules of interpretation set forth in Appendix A shall apply to this Participation Agreement.
  Definitions; Interpretation
"Appendix A"
ARTICLE II
ARTICLE III FUNDING OF ADVANCES
SECTION 3.1.
  Advances.
(a)           .  Subject to the conditions and terms hereof (including the conditions set forth in Section 6.1), the Lessor shall take the following actions at the written request of the Lessee:
Advances
(i)            the Lessor shall make Advances hereunder (out of funds provided by itself, out of funds constituting Loan proceeds and out of funds representing the proceeds of the sale of the Purchased Interests) for the purpose of refinancing the Prior Transaction and paying the Fees and the Transaction Expenses due and payable on the Closing Date;
(ii)           the Lessor shall lease the Property to the Lessee under the Lease and the Lease Supplement.
Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, there shall be only one (1) Advance hereunder, which shall be made on the Closing Date.
SECTION 3.2. .  Subject to the conditions and terms hereof, the Lessor shall make available to the Lessee on the Closing Date an amount (the ) in immediately available funds equal to the Lessor Percentage of the amount of the Advance being funded on the Closing Date.
  Lessor's Commitment
"Lessor Amount"
SECTION 3.3. .  Subject to the conditions and terms hereof and of the Receivables Purchase Agreement, on the Closing Date, each Purchaser shall purchase an undivided percentage ownership interest in the Purchased Interests from the Lessor in an aggregate amount in immediately available funds equal to such Purchaser's Pro Rata Share of such undivided percentage ownership interests.
  Purchasers' Commitment
2
SECTION 3.4. .  Subject to the conditions and terms hereof and of the Loan Agreement, on the Closing Date, each Lender shall fund a Loan to the Lessor in an aggregate amount in immediately available funds equal to such Lender's Pro Rata Share of such Loan.
  Lenders' Commitment
SECTION 3.5. .
  Procedures for Advances
(a)           .  With respect to the Advance being made hereunder on the Closing Date, the Lessee has given the Lessor and the Administrative Agent a Funding Request substantially in the form of hereto (the ) (which Funding Request was delivered to the Administrative Agent not later than 2:00 p.m., (New York time), two (2) Business Days prior to the proposed Closing Date) specifying:  (i) the amount of Advance requested, and (ii) wire transfer instructions for the disbursement of the proceeds of such Advance to the Administrative Agent under the Prior Transaction or to such other Persons specified in the Funding Request.  Based upon the Funding Request, the Administrative Agent shall calculate the amounts of the Lessor Amounts, Capital and Loans required to fund the requested Advance, which amounts are equal to the Lessor Percentage, Purchaser Percentage and the Loan Percentage, respectively, of the Advance.  On the basis of the Funding Request, on the Closing Date, (x) each Purchaser shall make its Pro Rata Share of the Capital available to the Lessor in care of the Administrative Agent at the Account by 2:00 p.m. (New York time) on the requested Closing Date, (y) each Lender shall make Loans in an amount equal to its respective Loan Commitment available to the Lessor in care of the Administrative Agent at the Account by 2:00 p.m. (New York time) on the requested Closing Date, and (z) the Lessor shall make its Commitment Percentage of the Advance available to the Administrative Agent at the Account by 2:00 p.m. (New York time) on the requested Closing Date.  Promptly upon the Administrative Agent's receipt of such funds from the Participants, the Administrative Agent shall wire such funds on the Closing Date to the Persons entitled thereto and to such accounts as the Lessee shall have indicated in the Funding Request.
General Procedures
Exhibit A
"Funding Request"
(b)             The Advance has been made solely to provide the funds required to refinance the Prior Transaction and to pay the related Fees and Transaction Expenses.
Use of Proceeds of Advance.
ARTICLE IV CALCULATION OF BASIC RENT; YIELD; RETURN; INTEREST; FEES; PAYMENT
SECTION 4.1. .  Basic Rent shall be payable from time to time on each Rent Payment Date during the Lease Term in an amount equal to the sum of (a) all interest then due on the Loans, as calculated in accordance with Sections 4.2 and 4.11, (b) all Return then due on the Capital, as calculated in accordance with Sections 4.3 and 4.11, and (c) all Yield then due on the Lessor Amounts, as calculated in accordance with Sections 4.4 and 4.11.
  Calculation of Basic Rent
3
SECTION 4.2.
  Interest on Loans.
(a)           The Loans shall accrue interest computed and payable in accordance with the terms of the Loan Agreement.  The Loans shall become due and payable at the dates and times provided under the Loan Agreement.
(b)           The Administrative Agent shall distribute, in accordance with Article VII, the Lender Basic Rent and all other amounts due with respect to the Loans paid to the Administrative Agent by the Lessee under the Lease from time to time.
SECTION 4.3.
  Return on Capital.
(a)           The Capital shall accrue Return computed and payable in accordance with the terms of the Receivables Purchase Agreement.  The Capital shall become due and payable at the dates and times provided under the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
(b)           The Administrative Agent shall distribute, in accordance with Article VII, the Purchaser Basic Rent and all other amounts due with respect to the Capital paid to the Administrative Agent by the Lessee under the Lease from time to time.
SECTION 4.4. .
  Yield
(a)           The Lessor Amounts outstanding from time to time shall accrue yield () at a rate per annum equal to the Yield Rate.  If all or any portion of the Lessor Amounts, any Yield payable thereon or any other amount payable hereunder shall not be paid when due (whether at stated maturity, acceleration thereof or otherwise), such overdue amount shall bear interest at a rate per annum which is equal to the Default Rate.
"Yield"
(b)           All Yield on the Lessor Amounts and all other amounts due with respect to the Lessor Amounts shall be distributed by the Administrative Agent to the Lessor in accordance with Article VII.
(c)           During the Lease Term, accrued Yield on the Lessor Amounts shall be due and payable (i) on each Rent Payment Date, (ii) on the date of any payment or prepayment, in whole or in part, of any Lessor Amount, on the Lessor Amount so paid or prepaid, and (iii) on the Expiration Date.
(d)           If not repaid sooner, the aggregate outstanding amount of Lessor Amounts shall be repaid in full on the Expiration Date, subject to the provisions of Article XX of the Lease.
SECTION 4.5.   Interest on the Loans, Return on Capital and Yield on the Lessor Amounts shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year for the actual days elapsed at all times that such interest rate, Return Rate or Yield Rate, as the case may be, is determined by reference to the BBA LIBO Rate and, at all other times, on the basis of a 365- (or 366-, as the case may be) day year for the actual days elapsed.  Any change in the interest rate on the Loans, Return or the Yield Rate resulting from a change in the Base Rate or BBA LIBO Rate shall become effective as of the opening of business on the day on which such
  Computation of Basic Rent and Yield.
4
change becomes effective.  Each determination of the interest rate, Return Rate or Yield Rate by the Administrative Agent pursuant to any provision of this Participation Agreement or any other Operative Document shall be binding on the Lessee and the Participants in the absence of manifest error.
Any increase or decrease in the Applicable Capital Margin or the Applicable Loan Margin resulting from a change in the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall become effective as of the first Business Day following the date a Compliance Certificate is delivered pursuant to Section 9.1(b)(i)(a); , that if a Compliance Certificate is not delivered when due in accordance with such Section, then the Applicable Capital Margin and the Applicable Loan Margin shall be determined based upon a Consolidated Leverage Ratio of greater than 2.00 to 1.00 as of the first Business Day after the date on which such Compliance Certificate was required to have been delivered until such Compliance Certificate has been delivered by Lessee.  The Applicable Capital Margin and the Applicable Loan Margin in effect from the Closing Date through the date the Compliance Certificate in respect of the fiscal quarter ending March 1, 2007 is delivered or required to be delivered shall be determined based upon a Consolidated Leverage Ratio of less than 1.00 to 1.00.
provided, however
SECTION 4.6. .
  Prepayments
(a)           .  The Lessee shall have the right to prepay an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding Property Balance pursuant to the exercise of purchase options permitted under the Lease without premium or penalty; , that the Lessee shall pay all Break Costs in connection with any such prepayment.  Each such prepayment with respect to the Property Balance shall be applied to the Loans, Capital and Lessor Amounts in the manner set forth in Article VII.
Voluntary Prepayments
provided, however
(b)           .  All amounts payable by the Lessee pursuant to Article XV, XVI, XVIII or XX of the Lease shall be used to prepay the Property Balance and shall be applied to the Loans, the Capital and the Lessor Amounts in the manner set forth in Article VII.
Mandatory Prepayments
(c)           .  The Lessee will provide notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lessor, Purchasers and Lenders) of any voluntary prepayment by 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on at least three (3) Business Days prior to the date of such voluntary prepayment.
Notice
SECTION 4.7.   The fees of the Structuring Agent, as separately agreed to by the Lessee and the Structuring Agent (collectively, the ), are due and payable by Lessee on the Closing Date and shall be included in and paid from the Advance.
  Fees.
"Fees"
SECTION 4.8.   Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, all payments hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent (as assignee of the Lessor pursuant to the Assignment of Lease and Rent) in Dollars in immediately available funds, without offset, deduction, counterclaim or withholding of any kind, to the Account not later than 2:00 p.m. (New York time) on the date when due, and the Lessor hereby directs the Lessee to pay to the Administrative Agent the Rent from time to time due under the Lease for
  Place and Manner of Payments.
5
distribution by the Administrative Agent in accordance with Article VII.  Payments received after such time shall be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day.  The Lessee shall, at the time it makes any payment under any Operative Document, specify to the Administrative Agent the Basic Rent, Supplemental Rent, Property Cost, Fees or other amounts payable by the Lessee hereunder to which such payment is to be applied (and in the event that it fails so to specify, or if such application would be inconsistent with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the Participants in such manner as the Participants may determine to be appropriate in respect of obligations owing by the Lessee).  The Administrative Agent will distribute such payments to the Participants in accordance with Article VII if any such payment is received prior to 2:00 p.m. (New York time) on a Business Day in like funds as received prior to the end of such Business Day and otherwise the Administrative Agent will distribute such payment to the Participants on the next succeeding Business Day.  Whenever any payment hereunder shall be stated to be due on a day which is not a Business Day, the due date thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day (subject to accrual of interest and fees for the period of such extension), except that in the case of LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts, if the extension would cause the payment to be made in the next following calendar month, then such payment shall instead by made on the preceding Business Day.
SECTION 4.9.
  [Reserved].
SECTION 4.10.   Unless otherwise indicated in this Participation Agreement or any other Operative Document, all accounting terms used in this Participation Agreement or any other Operative Document shall be construed, and all accounting and financial computations hereunder or thereunder shall be computed, in accordance with GAAP.  If GAAP changes during the term of this Participation Agreement such that any covenants contained herein would then be calculated in a different manner or with different components, the Lessee, the Participants and the Administrative Agent agree to negotiate in good faith to amend this Participation Agreement in such respects as are necessary to conform those covenants as criteria for evaluating the Lessee's financial condition to substantially the same criteria as were effective prior to such change in GAAP; , that, until the Lessee, the Participants and the Administrative Agent so amend this Participation Agreement, all such covenants shall be calculated in accordance with GAAP as in effect immediately prior to such change.
  Accounting Terms; Computations.
provided, however
SECTION 4.11. If all or any portion of Rent, Property Balance or any other amount payable to any Participant hereunder or under the other Operative Documents (whether in respect of interest, Return, Yield or other amounts) shall not be paid when due (whether at the stated maturity thereof, by acceleration or otherwise), then such overdue amount shall bear interest payable on demand, at a rate per annum that is equal to the Default Rate.  Without duplication of the foregoing, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Lease Event of Default, the outstanding Property Balance and any other amounts owing to the Participants or the Administrative Agent hereunder or under the other Operative Documents shall bear interest, payable on demand, at a rate per annum that is equal to the Default Rate.
  Late Payments; Default Rate. 
6
ARTICLE V CERTAIN INTENTIONS OF THE PARTIES
SECTION 5.1. .
  Intent
(a)           The parties hereto intend that, with respect to the Property and the Lease, (i) for financial accounting purposes with respect to the Lessee, (A) the Lease will be treated as an pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting standards (SFAS) No. 13, as amended, (B) the Lessor will be treated as the owner and the lessor of the Property to which it holds title and the Lessee will be treated as the lessee of the Property, (ii) for federal and all state and local income tax purposes and bankruptcy purposes, (A) the Lease will be treated as a financing arrangement, and (B) the Lessee under the Lease will be treated as the owner of the Property and will be entitled to all tax benefits ordinarily available to an owner of property like such Property for such tax purposes, and (iii) all risks relating to environmental matters shall be borne by the Lessee in accordance with the provisions of this Participation Agreement and the Lease.
"operating lease"
(b)           Specifically, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the parties hereto intend and agree that in the event of any insolvency or receivership proceedings or a petition under the United States bankruptcy laws or any other applicable insolvency laws or statutes of the United States of America or any state or commonwealth thereof affecting the Lessee or any other party to this Participation Agreement or any collection actions, the transactions evidenced by the Operative Documents are a financing made to the Lessee by the Lessor (using its own funds as well as funds provided by the Lenders and by the Purchasers as unrelated third parties).
(c)           Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary set forth herein, each of the Lessee, each Participant and the Administrative Agent acknowledges and agrees that none of the other parties to this Participation Agreement has made any representations or warranties concerning the tax, accounting or (except as otherwise expressly contained in this Participation Agreement or other Operative Documents) legal characteristics of the Operative Documents and that each party to the Transaction, respectively, has obtained and relied upon such tax, accounting and legal advice concerning the Operative Documents as it deems appropriate.
(d)           In furtherance of the intent of the parties as set forth in this Section 5.1, the Lessee hereby absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably (i) agrees to pay in full when due (after giving effect to any applicable grace period), whether at stated maturity, by required prepayment, declaration, acceleration, demand or otherwise, all amounts owing by the Lessee under the Operative Documents (including all such amounts which would become due but for the operation of the automatic stay under Section 362(a) of the United States Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. 362(a), and the operation of Section 502(b) and 506(b) of the United States Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. 502(b) and 506(b)), and (ii) indemnifies and holds harmless each party to this Participation Agreement for any and all costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by such Person in enforcing any rights under this Section 5.1.
7
SECTION 5.2.   Anything else herein or elsewhere to the contrary notwithstanding, it is the intention of the Lessee and the Participants that:  (a) the amount and timing of installments of Basic Rent due and payable from time to time from the Lessee under the Lease shall be equal to the aggregate payments due and payable as interest on the Loans, Return on Capital and Yield on the Lessor Amounts on each Rent Payment Date; (b) if the Lessee elects the Purchase Option or becomes obligated to purchase the Property under the Lease, then the Loans, the Capital, the Lessor Amounts, all accrued and unpaid interest, Return, Yield and Fees and all other obligations of the Lessee owing to the Administrative Agent, the Structuring Agent, and the Participants shall be due and payable in full by the Lessee on the date set forth in the Lease; (c) if the Lessee properly elects the Remarketing Option, the Lessee shall only be required to pay to the Lessor the proceeds of the sale of the Property, amounts payable pursuant to clause (i) of Section 20.1(m) of the Lease (not to exceed the Maximum Recourse Amount) and any amounts due pursuant to Article XIII hereof and Section 20.2 of the Lease; (d) upon the occurrence of a Lease Event of Default (and an acceleration of the Lessee's obligation to purchase the Property or pay the Property Cost), the amounts then due and payable by the Lessee under the Lease shall include all amounts necessary to pay in full the Property Balance all other amounts then due from the Lessee under the Operative Documents; and (e) if the Lessee elects to purchase or is required to purchase the Property pursuant to Section 15.1, 16.2(e) or Article XVIII of the Lease, the amounts then due and payable by the Lessee shall include all amounts necessary to pay the Property Balance.
  Amounts Due Under Lease.
plus
ARTICLE VI CLOSING DATE
SECTION 6.1. .   Subject to satisfaction or waiver of the following conditions precedent, the Closing Date (the ) for the transactions contemplated by this Participation Agreement (the ) shall be deemed to have occurred as of the date of this Participation Agreement, and the obligations of (i) the Lessor to make available the Lessor Amount on the Closing Date, (ii) the Purchasers to purchase the Purchased Interests on the Closing Date, and (iii) each Lender to make the Loan on the Closing Date shall be subject to satisfaction or waiver of the following conditions precedent:
  Closing Date
"Closing Date"
"Transactions"
(a)           .  This Participation Agreement shall have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the parties hereto.
Participation Agreement
(b)             The Lessor and the Lessee shall have duly authorized, executed and delivered the Lease and the Memorandum of Lease.
Lease; Memorandum of Lease.
(c)           .  The Loan Agreement and the Notes issued thereunder shall have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the parties thereto.
Loan Agreement;  Notes
(d)           .  The Receivables Purchase Agreement and the Certificates issued thereunder shall have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the parties thereto.
Receivables Purchase Agreement;  Certificates
8
(e)             The Assignment of Lease and Rent shall have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Lessor, as assignor, to the Administrative Agent, as assignee, and the Assignment of Lease and Rent shall have been consented to and acknowledged by the Lessee.
Assignment of Lease and Rent.
(f)            .  The Lessee shall have duly executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent counterparts of the Security and Assignment Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Participants.
Security and Assignment Agreement
(g)           .  Each Participant and the Administrative Agent shall have received the following:
Corporate Documents of the Lessee
(i)            .  An incumbency certificate, executed by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Lessee, which shall identify by name and title and bear the signature of the officers of the Lessee authorized to sign the Operative Documents to which the Lessee is or shall be a party, upon which certificate the Participants and the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely until informed of any change in writing by the Lessee.
Incumbency Certificate
(ii)           .  Copies of the certificate of incorporation of the Lessee, together with all amendments thereto, certified to be true and complete as of a recent date by the appropriate governmental authority of the state of its organization.
Certificate of Incorporation
(iii)          .  Copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Lessee approving the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents, and authorizing the execution and delivery by the Lessee of each Operative Document to which it is or shall be a party, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Lessee as of the Closing Date to be true and correct and in force and effect as of such date.
Resolutions
(iv)          .  A copy of the bylaws of the Lessee certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Lessee as of the Closing Date to be true and correct and in force and effect as of such date.
Bylaws
(v)           .  A certificate of good standing for the Lessee, certified as of a recent date by the appropriate governmental officer in its jurisdiction of incorporation, together with a certificate of the Secretary of State of the State of California (certified as of a recent date) to the effect that the Lessee is qualified to do business in the State of California.
Good Standing
(h)           .  The Lessee, each Lender, each Purchaser and the Administrative Agent shall have received the following:
Corporate Documents of the Lessor
(i)            .  An incumbency certificate, executed by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Lessor, which shall identify by name and title and bear the signature of the officers of the Lessor authorized to
Incumbency Certificate
9
sign the Operative Documents to which the Lessor is or shall be a party, upon which certificate the Lessee, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely until informed of any change in writing by the Lessor.
(ii)           .  Copies of the articles of incorporation of the Lessor, together with all amendments thereto, certified to be true and complete as of a recent date by the appropriate governmental authority of the state of its organization.
Articles of Incorporation
(iii)          .  Copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Lessor approving the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents, and authorizing the execution and delivery by the Lessor of each Operative Document to which it is or shall be a party, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Lessor as of the Closing Date to be true and correct and in force and effect as of such date.
Resolutions
(iv)          .  A copy of the bylaws of the Lessor certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Lessor as of the Closing Date to be true and correct and in force and effect as of such date.
Bylaws
(v)           .  A certificate of good standing for the Lessor, certified as of a recent date by the appropriate governmental officer in its jurisdiction of incorporation, together with a certificate of the Secretary of State of the State of California (certified as of a recent date) to the effect that the Lessor is qualified to do business in the State of California.
Good Standing
(i)            .  Each Participant shall have received opinions of (i) Shartsis Friese LLP,special counsel for the Lessee and (ii) internal counsel for the Lessee, each dated the Closing Date and addressed to each Participant, covering the matters set forth respectively in and 2 and otherwise in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Participants.
Opinion of Counsel to the Lessee
Exhibits F-1
F-
(j)            .  On the Closing Date, the representations and warranties of each of the parties set forth in Sections 8.1, 8.2 and 8.3 shall be true and correct in all respects as though made on and as of such date, except to the extent such representations or warranties relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all respects on and as of such earlier date.
Representations and Warranties
(k)           .  No Lease Default or Lease Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing under the Prior Transaction on the Closing Date.
No Default
(l)            .  All Governmental Actions required by any Requirement of Law for the purpose of authorizing the Lessee, the Administrative Agent and each Participant to enter into the Operative Documents shall have been obtained or made and be in full force and effect.
Governmental Approvals
10
(m)          .  No action or proceeding shall have been instituted or threatened, nor shall any governmental action be instituted or threatened before any Governmental Authority, nor shall any order, judgment or decree have been issued or proposed to be issued by any Governmental Authority, to set aside, restrain, enjoin or prevent the performance of this Participation Agreement or any transaction contemplated hereby or by any other Operative Document or that is reasonably likely, in the sole opinion of each Participant, to be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation
(n)             In the opinion of each Participant, no change shall have occurred or been proposed in Applicable Law that would make it uneconomic or illegal for any party to any Operative Document to participate in any of the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents or otherwise would prohibit the consummation of any transaction contemplated by the Operative Documents or expand the duties, obligations and risks of any Participant.
Requirements of Law.
(o)           .  The Lessor shall have received a fully executed counterpart of the applicable Funding Request in accordance with Section 3.5.
Funding Request
(p)           .  On or prior to the Closing Date, the Ground Lessor shall have delivered to the Lessor a satisfactory agreement concerning the Ground Lease, which agreement shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto
Ground Lease
Exhibit C
(q)           .  On or prior to the Closing Date, (i) the Lessee shall have delivered to the Lessor (or, at the request of the Lessor, to the Title Company) the original counterpart of the Lessor Mortgage, executed by the Lessee and in proper form for recordation in the official records of the County of Santa Clara in the State of California and (ii) the Lessor shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent (or, at the request of the Administrative Agent, to the Title Company) the original counterpart of the Lender Mortgage, executed by the Lessor and in proper form for recordation in the official records of the County of Santa Clara in the State of California.
Mortgages
(r)            .  On or prior to the Closing Date, (i) the Lessee shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent all UCC Financing Statements relating to the Property as the Administrative Agent or any Participant may reasonably request in order to perfect the interests of the Lessor in any Fixtures and personal property constituting part of the Property and all other Collateral under the Security and Assignment Agreement; (ii) the Lessor shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent all UCC financing statements relating to the Property as the Administrative Agent or any Participant may reasonably request in order to perfect the interests of the Administrative Agent in the Lessor's interest in any Fixtures and personal property constituting part of the Property and the Collateral under the Security and Assignment Agreement; and (iii) each of Lessee and the Lessor shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent copies of recent UCC, state and federal tax lien and judgment searches from all relevant filing offices or jurisdiction and in each case indicating no conflict with first and prior rights intended to be conveyed by the Lessee to the Lessor, and by the Lessor to the Administrative Agent, hereunder and under the other Operative Documents.
Financing Statements; UCC, Tax and Judgment Lien Searches
11
(s)           .  Each of the Participants shall have received evidence or a commitment reasonably satisfactory to it that each of (i) the Memorandum of Lease, (ii) the Lessor Mortgage, (iii) the Lender Mortgage, (iv) the UCC financing statements described in clause (e) above and (v) the Assignment of Lease and Rent, has been, or are being, recorded in a manner sufficient to properly perfect each of their interests therein.
Recordation of Memorandum of Lease, Lessor Mortgage, Lender Mortgage; UCC Financing Statements and Assignment of Lease and Rent
(t)              On or prior to the Closing Date, the Lessee shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a commitment from the Title Company to deliver (A) an ALTA extended coverage leasehold owner's policy and lenders policy covering the Property in favor of the Lessor, and (B) an ALTA extended coverage lenders policy covering the Property in favor of the Administrative Agent, each such policy in the amount of the Advance and to be satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Lessor with only such customary endorsements issued by the Title Company as a routine matter, and which are in any event satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Lessor, insuring first mortgage liens on the Property, subject only to matters approved by the Lessor and the Administrative Agent.
Title Insurance.
(u)           .  At least three (3) days prior to the Closing Date, the Lessee shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent and the Lessor, an American Land Title Association/American Congress on Surveying and Mapping 1992 (Urban) Survey of the Property certified to the Participants and the Title Company and otherwise in form reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Lessor.
Survey
(v)           .  Each Participant shall have received an Authorized Officer's Certificate of the Lessee, substantially in the form of attached hereto, dated as of the Closing Date, stating that (i) to such Authorized Officer's knowledge after reasonable inquiry, each and every representation and warranty of the Lessee contained in each Operative Document to which it is a party is true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Closing Date; (ii) to such Authorized Officer's knowledge after reasonable inquiry, no Lease Default has occurred and is continuing under any Operative Document to which Lessee is a party with respect to it; (iii) to such Authorized Officer's knowledge after reasonable inquiry, each Operative Document to which Lessee is a party is in full force and effect with respect to it; and (iv) the Lessee has duly performed and complied with all conditions contained herein or in any other Operative Document required to be performed or complied with by it on or prior to the Closing Date.
Authorized Officer's Certificates
Exhibit B
(w)            The Lessor and the Administrative Agent shall have received evidence that the insurance maintained by the Lessee with respect to the Property satisfies the requirements set forth in Article XIII of the Lease setting forth the respective coverage, limits of liability, carrier, policy number and period of coverage, and shall have received a letter and/or certificate signed by the Lessee's insurance broker confirming that the coverage with respect to the Property complies with the requirements of Article XIII of the Lease.
Evidence of Insurance.
 
12
(x)            .  On the Closing Date, the representations and warranties of the Lessee herein and in each of the other Operative Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects as though made on and as of such date (except for representations and warranties expressly made as of a specified date, which shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such date).
Representations and Warranties
(y)           .  On the Closing Date, the Lessor shall have received residual value insurance in form and substance satisfactory to the Lessor and the Administrative Agent with respect to the Property.
Residual Value Insurance
(z)            .  All Taxes, fees and other charges in connection with the execution, delivery, recording, filing and registration of the Operative Documents shall have been paid or provisions for such payment shall have been made by the Lessee to the reasonable satisfaction of the Participants.
Taxes
(aa)         .  As of the Closing Date, there shall not have occurred and be continuing any Lease Default under any of the Operative Documents or the Prior Transaction, and no Lease Default under any of the Operative Documents will have occurred after giving effect to the making of the Advance requested by the Funding Request.
No Default
(bb)         .  All fees due and payable pursuant to this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents and, to the extent invoiced, all Transaction Expenses of the type described in clause (a) or (c) of the definition thereof and other amounts due and owing pursuant to Section 14.1, shall have been paid or shall be paid out of the proceeds of the Advance.
Fees
(cc)         .  On the Closing Date, the Lessor and the Administrative Agent shall have received such additional documents and instruments related to the acquisition and financing of the Property as either of them shall reasonably request in order to establish the rights and interests of the Administrative Agent and the Lessor intended to be created under the Operative Documents in respect of the Property.
Additional Matters
All documents and instruments required to be delivered pursuant to this Section 6.1 shall be or deemed to be delivered at the offices of Schiff Hardin LLP, 6600 Sears Tower, Chicago, Illinois, 60606, or at such other location as may be determined by the Administrative Agent, the Participants and the Lessee, and the Administrative Agent and each Participant hereby agree that delivery of any document or instrument to such offices or other location shall constitute delivery to the Administrative Agent and each Participant for all purposes of the Operative Documents.
ARTICLE VII DISTRIBUTIONS
SECTION 7.1. .  Each payment of Basic Rent (and any payment of interest on overdue installments of Basic Rent) received by the Lessor or the Administrative Agent (including each payment of Basic Rent made in connection with a payment of Property Cost or Maximum Recourse Amount) shall be distributed by the Administrative Agent to the Participants
  Basic Rent
13
in accordance with, and for application to, all accrued and unpaid interest, Return and Yield then owing on such Participant's Loans, Capital or Lessor Amounts (including, in each case, any overdue interest, Return or Yield due to the Lenders, the Purchasers or the Lessor);, that if there is any shortfall in such payment of interest, Return and Yield, the Lenders shall be paid all interest then due and owing on the Loans (and, subject to the terms of Section 7.5 hereof, the Purchasers shall be paid all Return then due and owing on the Capital)prior to any payment of Yield due to the Lessor.
pro rata
provided
SECTION 7.2. .  Any payment of the Property Balance received by the Lessor or the Administrative Agent as a result of:
  Purchase Payments by the Lessee
(a)           the purchase of the Property in connection with the exercise of the Purchase Option under Section 18.1 of the Lease, or
(b)           compliance with the obligation to purchase (or cause its designee to purchase) the Property in accordance with Section 16.2(e) of the Lease, or
(c)           failure to fulfill one or more of the Return Conditions pursuant to Article XX of the Lease, or
(d)           the payment of the Property Cost pursuant to Section 15.1 of the Lease, or
(e)           the payment of the Property Cost from the proceeds of any Casualty or Condemnation pursuant to Section 14.3 of the Lease, shall be distributed in the following order of priority:
, to each Participant for application to all accrued and unpaid interest, Return and Yield then owing on such Participant's Loans, Capital or Lessor Amounts, as the case may be, among the Participants in accordance with the amount of such interest, Return or Yield payable to such Person.
first
pro rata
, to the Lenders and Purchasers, in accordance with their respective Participant Balances, for application to pay in full all outstanding Loans and Capital;
second
pro rata
, to the Lessor for application to pay in full all outstanding Lessor Amounts;
third
, so much of such payment or amount as shall be required to reimburse the Administrative Agent and the Lessor for any Taxes or reasonable costs or expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and legal expenses) incurred by the Administrative Agent or the Lessor (to the extent not previously reimbursed and to the extent incurred in connection with any duties as the Administrative Agent or as the Lessor), shall be distributed to such Person for its own account;
fourth
, to the Participants in accordance with, and for application to reimburse such Persons for, any Taxes or reasonable costs or expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees and legal expenses) incurred by such Participant in connection with the Property; and
fifth
pro rata
14
, the balance, if any, of such payment or amounts remaining after satisfaction of all Obligations shall be promptly distributed to, or as directed by, the Lessee.
sixth
SECTION 7.3. .  Any payment of any portion of the Property Cost (not to exceed Maximum Recourse Amount) received by the Lessor or the Administrative Agent from the Lessee pursuant to clause (i) of Section 20.1(m) of the Lease upon the exercise of the Remarketing Option shall be distributed as follows:
  Payment of Maximum Recourse Amount
, to the Purchasers, in accordance with their respective Participant Balances, for application to repay in full all outstanding Capital;
first
pro rata
, to the extent any amount remains after distribution as set forth above, to the Lenders, in accordance with their respective Participant Balances, for application to repay in full all outstanding Loans; and
second
pro rata
, to the extent any amount remains after distribution as set forth above, to the Lessor for application to the repayment of the Lessor Amounts.
third
SECTION 7.4. .  Any payments received by the Lessor or the Administrative Agent as proceeds from the sale of the Property sold pursuant to the exercise of the Remarketing Option pursuant to Article XX of the Lease, together with any payment made as a result of an appraisal pursuant to Section 13.2 of this Participation Agreement, shall be distributed in the funds so received in the following order of priority:
  Sales Proceeds of Remarketing of Property
, to the extent not previously or concurrently paid by the Lessee, to the Lessor and the Administrative Agent to pay in full all Taxes or reasonable costs or expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and legal expenses) incurred in connection with such sale and any reasonable costs, expenses and losses incurred in connection with the Property (including without limitation, any costs incurred in connection with any reletting or sale of the Property or any portion thereof);
first
to the Participants in accordance with, and for application to pay in full, (a) all accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans, Return on Capital, and Yield on the Lessor Amounts and (b) if any such sale is consummated after the Expiration Date, the Imputed Return on the Participants' Loans, Capital and Lessor Amounts to such date of payment;
second,
pro rata
, to the extent any Loans and any Capital remain outstanding, to the Lenders and Purchasers, in accordance with their respective Participant Balances, for application to pay in full all outstanding Loans and Capital;
third
pro rata
to the Lessor for application to pay in full all outstanding Lessor Amounts;
fourth,
, to the Lessee in an amount not to exceed the amount paid by the Lessee pursuant to clause (i) of Section 20.1(m) of the Lease; and
fifth
15
, the balance, if any, remaining after satisfaction of all Obligations shall be promptly distributed to, or as directed by, the Lessee.
sixth
SECTION 7.5. .
  Distribution of Payments After Lease Event of Default
(a)           Notwithstanding Sections 7.1, 7.2 and 7.3 above, all amounts received by the Lessor or the Administrative Agent during the continuance of a Lease Event of Default, shall, except as provided in clause (b) below, be distributed in the following order of priority:
, so much of such payment or amount as shall be required to reimburse the Administrative Agent and the Participants for any Taxes, reasonable costs or expenses or other loss incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Participant (to the extent not previously reimbursed and to the extent incurred in connection with any duties as the Administrative Agent, Lessor or as a Participant), shall be distributed to such Person for its own account;
first
, so much of such payments or amounts as shall be required to pay the Administrative Agent and the Participants the amounts payable to them pursuant to any expense reimbursement or indemnification provisions of the Operative Documents shall be distributed to such Persons without priority of one over the other in accordance with the amount of such payment or payments payable to each such Person;
second
, to each Participant for application to all accrued and unpaid interest, Return and Yield then owing on such Participant's Loans, Capital or Lessor Amounts, as the case may be, among the Participants in accordance with the amount of such interest, Return or Yield payable to such Person;
third
pro rata
, to each Lender that is not Lessee Party, in accordance with their respective Participant Balances, for application to pay in full all outstanding Loansowing to such Lenders;
fourth
pro rata
, to each Purchaser that is not Lessee Party, in accordance with their respective Participant Balances, for application to pay in full all outstanding Capitalowing to such Purchasers;
fifth
pro rata
, to each Lender that is a Lessee Party, in accordance with their respective Participant Balances, for application to pay in full all outstanding Loansowing to such Lenders;
sixth
pro rata
, to each Purchaser that is a Lessee Party, in accordance with their respective Participant Balances, for application to pay in full all outstanding Capitalowing to such Purchasers;
seventh
pro rata
, to the Lessor for application to pay in full all outstanding Lessor Amounts;
eighth
16
, to the Participants and the Administrative Agent for any other amounts payable to them under the Operative Documents, , based on the amounts payable and
ninth
pro rata
the balance, if any, of such payment or amounts remaining shall be promptly distributed to the Lessee.
tenth,
(b)           Notwithstanding clause (a) above, all payments received and amounts realized by the Lessor or the Administrative Agent in connection with any Casualty or Condemnation during the continuance of a Lease Event of Default shall be distributed as follows:
(i)            in the event that the Required Participants elect or are required to pay all or a portion of such amounts to the Lessee for the repair of damage caused by such Casualty or Condemnation in accordance with Section 14.3(a) of the Lease, then such amounts shall be distributed to the Lessee; and
(ii)           in the event that the Required Participants elect or are required to apply all or a portion of such amounts to the purchase price of the Property in accordance with Section 14.3(a) and Article XV of the Lease, then such amounts shall be distributed in accordance with clause (a).
SECTION 7.6. .  Subject to Section 7.5(b) any amounts received by the Administrative Agent or the Lessor as a result of a Casualty or Condemnation pursuant to Section 14.3 of the Lease shall be distributed as follows:
  Casualty and Condemnation Amounts
(a)           all amounts payable to the Lessee for the repair of damage caused by such Casualty or Condemnation in accordance with Section 14.3(a) of the Lease shall be distributed to the Lessee; and
(b)           all amounts that are to be applied towards the payment of the Property Cost shall be distributed by the Administrative Agent in accordance with Section 7.2; , if any such payment relates to the termination of the transaction contemplated hereby or the liquidation or disposition of the Property, such payment shall be distributed as provided in Section 7.5.
provided, however
SECTION 7.7. .  All payments of Supplemental Rent received by the Administrative Agent (but excluding any amounts payable pursuant to the preceding provisions of this Article VII) shall be paid directly to, and shall be directly enforceable by, the party specified in the applicable Operative Documents.  To the extent any such amount is paid to the Lessor or to the Administrative Agent, the same shall hold it in trust for the intended payee and shall as soon as possible remit the full amount thereof in immediately available funds to such payee.
  Supplemental Rent
SECTION 7.8. .
  Other Payments
(a)           Any payment received by the Lessor or the Administrative Agent for which no provision as to the application thereof is made in the Operative Documents or
17
elsewhere in this Article VII shall be distributed among the Participants without priority of one over the other, in the proportion that the Participant Balance of each bears to the aggregate of all the Participant Balances; , if any such payment relates to the termination of the transactions contemplated hereby or the liquidation or disposition of the Property, such payment shall be distributed by the Lessor or the Administrative Agent as provided in Section 7.5.
pro rata
provided, however
(b)           Except as otherwise provided in the preceding provisions of this Article VII, all payments received and amounts realized by any Participant under the Lease or otherwise with respect to the Property to the extent received or realized at any time after payment in full of all outstanding Loans, return of Capital and payment in full of all outstanding Lessor Amounts and all other amounts due and owing to the Administrative Agent or the Participants, shall be distributed forthwith by the Administrative Agent to the Lessee.
(c)           Any payment received by any Participant for which provision as to the application thereof is made in an Operative Document but not elsewhere in this Article VII shall be distributed forthwith by such Participant to the Person and for the purpose for which such payment was made in accordance with the terms of such Operative Document.
SECTION 7.9.   To the extent any payment distributed to any Participant pursuant to Section 7.2, 7.4, 7.5 or 7.6 is insufficient to pay in full the Participant Balance of any Participant all accrued interest, Return and Yield (as applicable) thereon, then each such payment shall be applied to accrued interest, Return or Yield and to outstanding principal on the Loans, outstanding Capital or any outstanding Lessor Amounts, as applicable.
  Order of Application.
plus
first
then
SECTION 7.10. .  Unless otherwise expressly provided all payments made pursuant to the Operative Documents shall be made to the Account maintained at the Administrative Agent.
  Payments to Account
,
SECTION 7.11. .  Except to the extent otherwise provided herein, payment or prepayment of (a) principal of any Loan shall be allocated among the Lenders, without priority of one over the other, in accordance with their outstanding Participant Balances and (b) Capital on any Purchased Interests shall be allocated among the Purchasers, without priority of one over the other, in accordance with their outstanding Participant Balances.
  Pro Rata Treatment
pro rata
pro rata
SECTION 7.12. .  The Participants agree among themselves that, in the event that a Participant shall obtain payment in respect of any Loan, Capital or Lessor Amount or any other obligation owing to such Participant under the Operative Documents by any means other than the distributions set forth in Sections 7.1 through 7.8 hereof (including, without limitation, through the exercise of a right of setoff, banker's lien counterclaim, or secured claim), such Participant shall pay over such amount to the Administrative Agent for distribution in accordance with this Article VII.  The Participants further agree among themselves that if any such amount received by a Participant and paid over to the Administrative Agent must be returned by such Participant for any reason, each Participant will return its share of such payment (together with its share of any accrued interest, Return or Yield payable with
  Sharing of Payments
18
respect thereto) to the Participant that must return such payment.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, if a Participant shall fail to remit to any other Participant an amount payable by such Participant to the other Participant pursuant to the Operative Documents on the date when such amount is due, such payments shall be made together with interest thereon (at no additional expense to the Lessee) from the date such amount is due until the date such amount is paid to such other Participant at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Effective Rate.  If under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law, a Participant receives a secured claim in lieu of a setoff to which this Section 7.12 applies, such Participant shall, to the extent practicable, exercise its rights in respect of such secured claim in a manner consistent with the rights of the other Participant under this Section 7.12 to share in the benefits of any recovery on such secured claim.
ARTICLE VIII REPRESENTATIONS
SECTION 8.1. .  In order to induce the Participants and the Administrative Agent to enter into this Participation Agreement and in order to induce the Participants to advance Loans, purchase the Purchased Interests and advance Lessor Amounts as provided for herein, the Lessee makes the following representations and warranties to, and agreements with, the Administrative Agent and each Participant, all of which shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Closing Date:
  Representations of the Lessee
(a)           .  Each of the Lessee and the Lessee's Material Domestic Subsidiaries (i) is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization; (ii) has the power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and carry on its business as now conducted; and (iii) is duly qualified, licensed to do business and in good standing as a foreign corporation in each jurisdiction where the failure to be so qualified or licensed is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.  The Lessee is organized under the laws of the State of Delaware and is a under the laws of the State of Delaware.  The Lessee's exact name is as set forth in the preamble to this Participation Agreement.  The chief executive office and principal place of business of the Lessee is located at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California.
Due Incorporation, Qualification, etc
"registered entity"
(b)           .  The execution, delivery and performance by the Lessee of each Operative Document executed, or to be executed, by the Lessee and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby (i) are within the power of the Lessee and (ii) have been duly authorized by all necessary actions on the part of the Lessee.
Authority
(c)           .  Each Operative Document executed, or to be executed, by the Lessee has been, or will be, duly executed and delivered by the Lessee and constitutes, or will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Lessee, enforceable against the Lessee in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Enforceability
19
(d)           .  The execution and delivery by the Lessee of the Operative Documents executed by the Lessee and the performance and consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby do not (i) violate any Requirement of Law applicable to the Lessee; (ii) violate any provision of, or result in the breach or the acceleration of, or entitle any other Person to accelerate (whether after the giving of notice or lapse of time or both), any Contractual Obligation of the Lessee required by Regulation S-K to be made part of the Lessee's public filings; or (iii) result in the creation or imposition of any Lien (or the obligation to create or impose any Lien) upon any property, asset or revenue of the Lessee (except such Liens as may be created in favor of the Administrative Agent or the Lessor pursuant to this Participation Agreement or the other Operative Documents).
Non-Contravention
(e)           .  No consent, approval, order or authorization of, or registration, declaration or filing with, any Governmental Authority is required in connection with the execution and delivery of the Operative Documents executed by the Lessee or the performance or consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, except for those which have been made or obtained and are in full force and effect and except for the filing of the Operative Documents with the SEC as material agreements of the Lessee, which SEC filing will be made by the Lessee in the ordinary course of its SEC filings, if necessary.
Approvals
(f)            .  Neither the Lessee nor any of its Subsidiaries is in violation of or in default with respect to (i) any Requirement of Law applicable to such Person or (ii) any Contractual Obligation of such Person (nor is there any waiver in effect which, if not in effect, would result in such a violation or default), where, in each case, such violation or default is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, neither the Lessee nor any of its Subsidiaries (i) has violated any Environmental Laws, (ii) has any liability under any Environmental Laws or (iii) has received notice or other communication of an investigation or is under investigation by any Governmental Authority having authority to enforce Environmental Laws, where such violation, liability or investigation is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.  No Lease Default has occurred and is continuing.
No Violation or Default
(g)           .  Except as disclosed in the latest filings by the Lessee with the SEC, no actions (including derivative actions), suits, proceedings or investigations are pending or, to the knowledge of the Lessee, threatened against the Lessee or any of its Subsidiaries at law or in equity in any court or before any other Governmental Authority which (i) is reasonably likely (alone or in the aggregate) to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) seeks to enjoin, either directly or indirectly, the execution, delivery or performance by the Lessee of the Operative Documents to which it is a party or the transactions contemplated thereby.
Litigation
20
(h)           .  The Lessee and its Material Doemstic Subsidiaries own and have good and marketable title, or a valid leasehold interest in, or licenses with respect to, all their respective properties and assets as reflected in the most recent Financial Statements delivered to the Administrative Agent (except those assets and properties disposed of in the ordinary course of business or otherwise in compliance with this Agreement since the date of such Financial Statements) and all respective assets and properties acquired by the Lessee and its Material Domestic Subsidiaries since such date (except those disposed of in the ordinary course of business or otherwise in compliance with this Agreement).  Such assets and properties are subject to no Lien, except for Permitted Liens.  Each of the Lessee and its Material Domestic Subsidiaries has complied with all material obligations under all material leases to which it is a party and enjoys peaceful and undisturbed possession under such leases subject only to rights of sublessees of the Lessee or its Material Domestic Subsidiaries.
Title; Possession Under Leases
(i)            .  The Financial Statements of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries which have been made available to the Lessor and the Administrative Agent, (i) are in accordance with the books and records of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries, which have been maintained in accordance with good business practice; (ii) have been prepared in conformity with GAAP; and (iii) fairly present in all material respects the financial conditions and results of operations of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and for the period covered thereby.
Financial Statements
(j)            .  All Equity Securities of the Lessee have been offered and sold in compliance with all federal and state securities laws and all other Requirements of Law, except where any failure to comply is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Equity Securities
(k)           The Lessee does not have any legal obligation, absolute or contingent, to any Person to effect any merger, consolidation or other reorganization of the Lessee (except as permitted by Section 9.2(c)) or to enter into any agreement with respect thereto.
No Agreements Regarding Mergers, Etc. 
(l)           
Employee Benefit Plans.
(i)            Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state Laws.  Each Plan that is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the IRS with respect thereto and, to the Actual Knowledge of the Company, nothing has occurred which would prevent, or cause the loss of, such qualification.  The Lessee and each ERISA Affiliate have made all required contributions to each Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, and no application for a funding waiver or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan.
(ii)           There are no pending or, to the Actual Knowledge of the Lessee, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that could reasonably be expected to have a
21
Material Adverse Effect.  There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(iii)          (A) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events for which liability could, if enforced in accordance with Applicable Law, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; (B) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability; (C) neither the Lessee nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (D) neither the Lessee nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such liability) under Sections 4201 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan; and (E) neither the Lessee nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Sections 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
(m)          .  The Lessee is not subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, the Federal Power Act, the Interstate Commerce Act, any state public utilities code or to any other Governmental Rule limiting its ability to incur indebtedness.
Other Regulations
(n)           .  The Lessee and its Subsidiaries own, or possess the right to use, all of the trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patents, patent rights, franchises, licenses and other intellectual property rights (collectively, ) that are reasonably necessary for the operation of their respective businesses, without conflict with the rights of any other Person, except for those for which the failure to own or possess the right to use could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  To the Actual Knowledge of the Lessee, no slogan or other advertising device, product, process, method, substance, part or other material now employed, or now contemplated to be employed, by the Lessee or any Subsidiary infringes upon any rights held by any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  Except as specifically disclosed in Schedule 8.1(n), no claim or litigation regarding any of the foregoing is pending or, to the Actual Knowledge of the Lessee, threatened, which, either individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Patent and Other Rights
"IP Rights"
(o)           .  The Lessee and its Subsidiaries have filed or caused to be filed all Federal, state and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed (or extensions therefor have been obtained in accordance with applicable Law), and have paid or caused to be paid all Federal, state and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which
Governmental Charges
22
adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP.  There is no proposed tax assessment against the Lessee or any Subsidiary that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(p)           .  The Lessee owns no Margin Stock which, in the aggregate, would constitute a substantial part of the assets of the Lessee, and no proceeds of the Advance will be used to purchase or carry, directly or indirectly, any Margin Stock or to extend credit, directly or indirectly, to any Person for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any Margin Stock.
Margin Stock
(q)           .  As of the Closing Date, the Lessee has no Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in Item 8.1(q) of Schedule IV, and all of the outstanding Equity Interests in such Subsidiaries have been validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by Lessee or a Subsidiary in the amounts specified on Item 8.1(q) of Schedule IV free and clear of all Liens.
Subsidiaries, Etc
(r)            .  The Lessee is Solvent and, after the execution and delivery of the Operative Documents and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, will be Solvent.  The Lessee is not entering into the Operative Documents with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud its current or future creditors, and the Lessee does not intend to or believe that it will incur, as a result of entering into this Participation Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, debts beyond its ability to repay.  The Lessee is not, as of the date of this Participation Agreement, as that term is defined in 11 U.S.C.  101(34), and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Participation Agreement will not render the Lessee insolvent (giving effect to the fair valuation of its assets) or result in the Lessee having unreasonably small capital for the conduct of its business.
Solvency, Etc
"insolvent"
(s)           .  Neither the Lessee nor any of its properties is or has been affected by any fire, explosion, accident, strike, lockout or other labor dispute, drought, storm, hail, earthquake, embargo, act of God or other casualty that is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.  There are no disputes presently subject to grievance procedure, arbitration or litigation under any of the collective bargaining agreements, employment contracts or employee welfare or incentive plans to which the Lessee is a party, and there are no strikes, lockouts, work stoppages or slowdowns, or, to the best knowledge of the Lessee, jurisdictional disputes or organizing activities occurring or threatened which alone or in the aggregate are reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Catastrophic Events
(t)            .  The Lessee has disclosed in filings made in accordance with applicable Securities Laws all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters of which it has Actual Knowledge, that, in each case individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  No written report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished in writing by or on behalf of Lessee to the Administrative Agent or any Participant with respect to the Lessee or its Subsidiaries in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this
Disclosure
23
Participation Agreement or delivered hereunder or under any other Operative Document (in each case, as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information and other forward-looking statements, the Lessee represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
provided
(u)           .  The Property complies in all material respects with all Applicable Law (including, without limitation, all zoning and land use laws and Environmental Laws) and all Insurance Requirements, except for such Applicable Law as the Lessee shall be contesting in good faith by appropriate proceedings that do not involve (i) any material risk of (A) foreclosure, sale, forfeiture or loss of, or imposition of any material Lien on, the Property or any part thereof, (B) the impairment of the ownership, use, operation or maintenance of the Property or (C) any civil liability being incurred by any Participant or the Administrative Agent or (ii) any risk of criminal liability being incurred by any Participant or the Administrative Agent.
The Property
(v)             There is no action, suit or proceeding (including any proceeding with respect to a Condemnation or under any Environmental Law) pending or, to the best of its knowledge, threatened with respect to the Lessee, the Land or the Improvements that adversely affects the use, operation, title to or value of the Property.
No Proceedings with Respect to Property.
(w)          .  Pursuant to that certain Grant Deed executed by the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Jose and recorded on June 6, 2001, as Document No. 15717130 in the Official Records of the Recorder of Santa Clara County, California, the Land was established as a separate legal parcel.  As a consequence of the establishment of the Land as a separate legal parcel pursuant to said Grant Deed, the Land was established as a separate tax parcel on the rolls of the Santa Clara County Assessor as of July 1, 2002.
Separate Parcel
(x)            .  All water, sewer, electric, gas, telephone and drainage facilities and all other utilities required to adequately service the applicable Improvements for the Property's intended use as a first class office building are available pursuant to adequate permits (including any that may be required under applicable Environmental Laws).
Utilities
(y)           .  All utilities serving the Property are located in, and vehicular access to the Improvements on the Property is provided by, either irrevocable public rights-of-way abutting the Property or irrevocable, title insured, Appurtenant Rights.
Access, Rights-of-Way, Etc
(z)            .  All Necessary Permits have been obtained from the appropriate Governmental Authorities having jurisdiction or from private parties, as the case may be, for any use or operation for which such Necessary Permit is required.
Necessary Permits
(aa)         .
[Reserved]
 
24
(bb)         .  The Security Documents create a valid and enforceable Lien on the Collateral in favor of the Lessor and, upon (i) the recordation of the UCC Financing Statement covering Fixtures on the Land in the real estate records of Santa Clara County, California, (ii) the filing of the UCC Financing Statement covering personal property with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and (iii) the recordation of the Lessor Mortgage in the real estate records of Santa Clara County, California, the Lessor will have a first priority perfected Lien on the Collateral.  No filing, recording, registration or notice to any Governmental Authority will be necessary to establish, perfect and give record notice of the Lien on the Collateral in favor of the Lessor except for the filing of the UCC Financing Statements and recordation of the Lessor Mortgage described in the preceding sentence.  There are no fees, taxes, charges or other sums payable to any Governmental Authority with respect to the filing and recordation described in this clause (dd) or the enforcement of any rights or remedies under the documents referred to above, except for customary recording fees.
Perfection of Liens
(cc)           No sales, use, excise, transfer or other Tax, fee or imposition shall result from the execution and delivery of the Lease or the conveyance of the interests conveyed thereby.
No Transfer Taxes.
(dd)         .  Except as disclosed in writing by the Lessee to the Administrative Agent, no fire or other casualty with respect to the Property has occurred which fire or other casualty has materially and adversely affected the use, value, operation or useful life of the Property.
No Casualty
(ee)           On and after the Closing Date, the Lessee has obtained or arranged on behalf of the Lessor, insurance coverage covering the Property, which meets the requirements of the Lease, and such coverage is in full force and effect on and after the Closing Date.
Insurance.
(ff)             Except as disclosed by the Survey provided for in Section 6.1(o), no portion of the Property is located in an area identified as a special flood hazard area by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or other applicable agency.
Flood Hazard Areas.
SECTION 8.2. .  The Lessor warrants and represents to the other parties hereto that:
  Warranties and Representations of the Lessor
(a)           The Lessor is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Ohio, is qualified as of the Closing Date as a foreign corporation in the State in which the Property is located and has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver, and to perform its obligations under, the Operative Documents to which it is a party.
(b)           The Operative Documents to which the Lessor is, or will be, a party have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action, have been duly executed and delivered by the Lessor, and constitute, and each other Operative Document to which Lessor is a party when executed and delivered by Lessor will constitute, the valid and binding obligations of the Lessor enforceable against the Lessor in accordance with the
25
respective terms thereof, except as such enforceability may be limited by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
(c)           The Lessor is not in violation of any term of any of the Operative Documents.
(d)           Neither the execution and delivery of the Operative Documents, the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby nor the fulfillment of or compliance with the provisions thereof will require consent, approval, authorization, filing, registration or qualification under or conflict with or violate any Applicable Law having jurisdiction over the Lessor or any of its property of the Lessor, except as contemplated by the Operative Documents.
(e)           The Lessor has not conveyed any interest in the Collateral, any Property or any part thereof to any Person or subjected the Collateral, any Property or any part thereof to any Lien, except pursuant to the Operative Documents.
(f)            The Lessor's exact legal name is "SELCO Service Corporation."  The Lessor is registered to do business in the State of California as
"Ohio SELCO Service Corporation."
(g)           Neither the Lessor nor any Person authorized by the Lessor to act on its behalf has offered or sold any interest in the Lease, or in any similar security relating to the Property, or in any security the offering of which for the purposes of the Securities Act would be deemed to be part of the same offering as the offering of the aforementioned securities to, or solicited any offer to acquire any of the same from, any Person other than the Administrative Agent and the other Participants, and neither the Lessor nor any Person authorized by the Lessor to act on its behalf will take any action which would subject the issuance or sale of any interest in the Lease or the Property to the provisions of Section 5 of the Securities Act or any state securities laws or require the qualification of any Operative Document under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
(h)           The Lessor is not and will not be funding its Lessor Amounts hereunder, and is not performing its obligations under the Operative Documents, with the assets of an "employee benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) which is subject to Title I of ERISA, or "plan" (as defined in Section 4975(e)(1) of the Code).
(i)            The Lessor is participating in the Transactions for its own account and not with a view toward redistribution; , that disposition of its rights hereunder shall remain in its control and the foregoing shall not affect the ability of the Lessor to assign, transfer or sell participations in its rights in accordance with the Operative Documents.
provided
(j)            There are no actions or proceedings pending, or to the knowledge of the Lessor, threatened, against or affecting the Lessor in or before any Governmental Authority which, if adversely determined, would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Lessor to enter into or perform the Operative Documents to which it is a party.
26
(k)           The Lessor and each corporation consolidated with the Lessor for federal income tax purposes has (a) made or filed all material federal, state and local income tax returns, required by any jurisdiction to which it is subject or properly filed for and received extensions with respect thereto which are still in full force and effect and which have been fully complied with in all material respects, (b) paid all taxes and other governmental assessments and charges shown or determined to be due on such returns, reports and declarations, except those being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves, to the extent required by GAAP, have been established and (c) to the extent required by GAAP, set aside on their books provisions reasonably adequate for the payment of all estimated taxes for periods subsequent to the periods to which such returns, reports or declarations apply.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Lessor shall not be deemed to have breached any of its representations contained in this clause (k) unless such breach would have a material adverse effect on the Property, Liens or other rights in the Property.
(l)            As of the Closing Date (i) the fair value of the Property is less than fifty percent (50%) of the fair value of the total assets of the Lessor, excluding the fair value of assets of the Lessor funded with more than 95% non-recourse capital, (ii) no more than 95% of the Property Cost is or will be financed or encumbered by non-recourse capital. Lessor shall from time to time, upon request of the Lessee, confirm the foregoing representations.
without regard to residual value guarantees, remarketing agreements, non-recourse financings, purchase options or other contractual arrangements, whether made by Lessor with Lessee or with other parties, that might otherwise impact the fair value of such assets.  With respect to leveraged leases pursuant to FAS 13, fair value is determined on a gross basis prior to the application of leveraged lease accounting.  With respect to direct financing leases pursuant to FAS 13, fair value is determined as the sum of the fair values of the corresponding finance lease receivables and related unguaranteed residual values.  As used herein, "non-recourse capital" includes non-recourse financing, targeted equity, bank participations or similar arrangements.
As used herein, means, with respect to any asset, the amount for which the asset could be bought or sold in a current transaction negotiated at arms length between willing parties
"fair value"
SECTION 8.3.   Each Lender and Purchaser represents and warrants to the other parties hereto that:
  Representations of the Participants.
(a)           .  Such Participant is not and will not be making its Loans or purchasing its Purchased Interests (as the case may be) hereunder, and is not performing its obligations under the Operative Documents, with the assets of an (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) which is subject to Title I of ERISA, or (as defined in Section 4975(e)(1) of the Code).
Source of Funds
"employee benefit plan"
"plan"
27
(b)           .  Such Participant is a commercial bank, branch or agency of a foreign bank or other similar financial institution, or an Affiliate thereof, or in the case of Adobe Affiliate Systems Incorporated, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of its state of incorporation.
Status
(c)           .  Each Participant is participating in the Transactions for its own account and not with a view toward redistribution; , that disposition of its rights hereunder shall remain in its control and the foregoing shall not affect the ability of any Participant to assign or sell participations in its rights in accordance with the Operative Documents; and , , that the Purchasers may always make dispositions in accordance with Section 16.15 hereof.
Acquisition for Investment
provided
provided
further
(d)           .  There are no Lessor Liens attributable to such Participant on Collateral, the Property or any part thereof, and the execution, delivery and performance by such Participant of the Operative Documents to which it is or will be a party will not subject the Collateral, the Property or any part thereof to any Lessor Liens attributable to such Participant.
Lessor Liens
(e)           .  Neither such Participant nor any Person authorized to act on its behalf has, directly or indirectly, offered to sell any of its rights under the Operative Documents or solicited any offer to acquire any rights under the Operative Documents for any Person, except in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents or as otherwise expressly permitted therein.
Offer of Securities, Etc
(f)            .  Such Participant understands and acknowledges that (i) neither the Notes representing the Loans nor the Certificates representing the Purchased Interests have been and the same will not be registered under the Securities Act, in reliance upon the exemption provided in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act, (ii) neither the Notes representing the Loans nor the Certificates representing the Purchased Interests have been and the same will not be registered or qualified under securities or laws of any jurisdiction, and (iii) neither the Notes representing the Loans nor the Certificates representing the Purchased Interests may be resold or otherwise transferred except as permitted by Section 12.1 and only if so registered or qualified or if an exemption from registration or qualification is available.  Such Participant will comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws in connection with any subsequent resale of any such notes or certificates held by it.
No Registration
"blue sky"
(g)           .  Such Participant is a sophisticated institutional investor and is an as defined in paragraphs (1), (2), (3) or (7) of Rule 501(a) of the Securities Act, and has substantial knowledge and experience in financial and business matters and is capable of evaluating the merits and risks of its participation in the transactions under the Operative Documents including, without limitation, its investment in the Notes or the Purchased Interests and is able to bear the economic risk of such investment for an indefinite period of time.  Such Participant has been given all information concerning the transactions under the Operative Documents, the Notes, the Purchased Interests, the Property, the Lessor and the Lessee, as requested by such Participant.
Institutional Investor
"accredited investor"
28
ARTICLE IX COVENANTS
SECTION 9.1. .  The Lessee hereby covenants and agrees that on the Closing Date and thereafter for so long as this Participation Agreement is in effect and until such time as all Obligations have been paid in full, the Lessee shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in Sections 9.1(a), (b), (c) (n) and (o)) cause each Subsidiary to:
  Affirmative Covenants
(a)             Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Participant, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
Financial Statements
.
(i)            as soon as available, but in any event within ninety (90) days after the end of each fiscal year of the Lessee, a consolidated balance sheet of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, such consolidated statements to be audited and accompanied by (A) a report and opinion of a Registered Public Accounting Firm of nationally recognized standing reasonably acceptable to the Required Participants, which report and opinion shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and applicable Securities Laws and shall not be subject to any or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit or with respect to the absence of any material misstatement and (B) an opinion of such Registered Public Accounting Firm independently assessing the Lessee's internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Item 308 of SEC Regulation S-K, PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 2, and Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley expressing a conclusion that contains no statement that there is a material weakness in such internal controls, except for such material weaknesses not reasonably expected to result in a misstatement in any financial information delivered or to be delivered to the Administrative Agent or the Participants with respect to covenant compliance calculations, or the assets, liabilities, financial condition or results of operations of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; and
"going concern"
(ii)           as soon as available, but in any event within forty-five (45) days after the end of each of the first three (3) fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Lessee, a consolidated balance sheet of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Lessee's fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, such consolidated statements to be certified by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Lessee as fairly presenting the financial condition, results of operations, shareholders'
29
equity and cash flows of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to Section 9.1(b)(ii), the Lessee shall not be separately required to furnish such information under clause (i) or (ii) above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Lessee to furnish the information and materials described in clauses (i) and (ii) above at the times specified therein.
(b)           .
Certificates; Other Information
(i)            Deliver to the Administrative Agent for distribution to each Participant, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Lessor:
a.             concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in Sections 9.1(a)(i) and (ii), a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Lessee, together with such supporting information in relation thereto as the Administrative Agent or the Required Participants may request;
b.             promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Lessee, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which the Lessee may file or be required to file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto; and
c.             promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Lessee or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Operative Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Participant may from time to time reasonably request.
(ii)           Documents required to be delivered pursuant to Section 9.1(a)(i) or (ii) or Section 9.1(b)(i)(b) (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Lessee posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Lessee's website on the Internet at the website address listed on Schedule II; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Lessee's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Participant and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent).  Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Lessee
30
shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance Certificates required by Section 9.1(b)(i)(a) to the Administrative Agent.  Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Lessee with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
(iii)          Lessee hereby acknowledges that (A) the Administrative Agent will make available to the Participants materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of Lessee hereunder (collectively, ) by posting the Lessee Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the ) and (B) certain of the Participants (each, a ) may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to Lessee or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Person's securities.  Lessee hereby agrees that (1) all Lessee Materials that are to be made available to Public Participants shall be clearly and conspicuously marked which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (2) by marking Lessee Materials the Lessee shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, and the Participants to treat such Lessee Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Lessee or its respective securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, that to the extent such Lessee Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in Section 16.17); (3) all Lessee Materials marked are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated and (4) the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to treat any Lessee Materials that are not marked as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated   Notwithstanding the foregoing, Lessee shall not be under any obligation to mark any Lessee Materials
"Lessee Materials"
"Platform"
"Public Participant"
"PUBLIC"
"PUBLIC"
"PUBLIC,"
provided, however
"PUBLIC"
"Public Investor;"
"PUBLIC"
"Public Investor."
"PUBLIC."
(c)           .  Promptly after the Lessee obtains Actual Knowledge thereof, notify the Administrative Agent (which in turn shall notify each Participant):
Notices
(i)            of the occurrence of any Default;
(ii)           of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (A) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Lessee or any Subsidiary; (B) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Lessee or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (C) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Lessee or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
31
(iii)          of the occurrence of any ERISA Event;
(iv)          of any change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Lessee or any Subsidiary that would reasonably be expected to result in a material change in the computation of any financial ratio set forth herein; provided that such disclosure may be made in conjunction with the next ensuing Compliance Certificate delivered hereunder;
(v)           of the determination by the Registered Public Accounting Firm providing the opinion required under Section 9.1(a)(i)(B) (in connection with its preparation of such opinion) or the Lessee's determination at any time of the occurrence or existence of any Internal Control Event that has resulted in or could reasonably be expected to result in a misstatement in any material respect, in any financial information delivered or to be delivered to the Administrative Agent or the Participants, of (i) covenant compliance calculations provided hereunder or (ii) the assets, liabilities, financial condition or results of operations of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; and
(vi)          of any announcement by Moody's or S&P of the commencement of or any change or possible change in a Debt Rating.
Each notice pursuant to this Section 9.1(c) (other than Section 9.1(c)(vi) shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Lessee setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Lessee has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto.  Each notice pursuant to Section 9.1(c)(i) shall describe with particularity any and all provisions of this Participation Agreement and any other Operative Document that have been breached.
(d)           .  Pay and discharge as the same shall become due and payable, all its obligations and liabilities, including (i) all tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Lessee or such Subsidiary; (ii) all lawful claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property; and (iii) all Indebtedness, as and when due and payable, but subject to any subordination provisions contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness, unless such failure to pay or discharge such Indebtedness would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Payment of Obligations
(e)             (i) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction permitted by Section 9.2(c) or 9.2(d); (ii) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (iii) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service
Preservation of Existence, Etc.
32
marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(f)            .  (i) Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted; (ii) make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (iii) use the standard of care typical in the industry in the operation and maintenance of its facilities.
Maintenance of Properties
(g)           .  Maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Lessee (other than Eligible Captive Insurance Subsidiaries), insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons.
Maintenance of Insurance
(h)           .  Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (i) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (ii) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws
(i)            .  (a)  Maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied shall be made of all material financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Lessee or such Subsidiary, as the case may be; and (b) maintain such books of record and account in material conformity with all applicable requirements of any Governmental Authority having regulatory jurisdiction over the Lessee or such Subsidiary, as the case may be.
Books and Records
(j)            .  Permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent (or, if there exists at such time no Administrative Agent hereunder, of the Participants) to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers, and independent public accountants, all at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably deemed necessary to carry out the purposes of this Participation Agreement, upon reasonable advance notice to the Lessee; , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or (subject to the limitations of Section 16.16 hereof) any Participant (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Lessee at any time during normal business hours and without advance notice.
Inspection Rights
provided, however
(k)           .
[Reserved]
33
(l)            .  Maintain all authorizations, consents, approvals and licenses from, exemptions of, and filings and registrations with, each Governmental Authority of the jurisdiction in which the Lessee is organized and existing, and all approvals and consents of each other Person in such jurisdiction, in each case that are required in connection with the Operative Documents.
Approvals and Authorizations
(m)          .
[Reserved]
(n)             Maintain the Land as a separate parcel for all real estate tax and assessment purposes, and no part of the Land shall be aggregated with any other parcel for such purposes.
Separate Parcel.
(o)             Furnish to the Administrative Agent and the Lessor, promptly (but in any event within ten (10) days) of the Lessee's receipt or delivery thereof, copies of any notices and other written communications that the Lessee receives or delivers under, or otherwise in connection with, the Ground Lease and/or any easements, covenants and restrictions, or other agreements recorded against or affecting the ownership, use or occupancy of the Property.
Notices In Respect of Ground Lease, Etc.
SECTION 9.2.     The Lessee hereby covenants and agrees that on the Closing Date and thereafter for so long as this Participation Agreement is in effect and until such time as all Obligations have been paid in full, the Lessee shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly:
Negative Covenants.
(a)           .  Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon the Property, other than Permitted Property Liens.
Liens
(b)           .
[Reserved]
(c)           .
Fundamental Changes; Acquisitions
(i)            Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, or Dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any Person, except that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom:
a.             any Subsidiary may merge with (i) the Lessee, that the Lessee shall be the continuing or surviving Person, or (ii) any one or more other Subsidiaries;
provided
b.             any Subsidiary may Dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation, dissolution or otherwise) to the Lessee or to another Subsidiary; and
c.             the Lessee may merge or consolidate with any other Person or sell all or substantially all of its assets to any Person, that:
provided
34
(A)            in the case of any merger or consolidation, either (1) the Lessee is the surviving corporation or (2) the surviving Person (x) is a solvent Person organized under the laws of a country member to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or Bermuda, Barbados or the Cayman Islands, and (y) assumes all of the obligations of the Lessee in a manner reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and, if requested by the Administrative Agent, delivers one or more opinions of counsel from counsel reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent as to the enforceability of the Obligations against the surviving Person and such other matters as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request;
(B)            in the case of any merger or consolidation, if the Lessee is not the surviving Person, or in the case of a disposition of all or substantially all of the Lessee's assets, the surviving or acquiring Person, after giving effect to such merger or consolidation or such acquisition of the Lessee's assets:
(1)            shall have a rating of its unsecured and non-credit enhanced senior obligations of at least from S&P or from Moody's; provided that if such obligations are not rated by S&P or Moody's, the Lessee or the surviving or acquiring Person shall have presented evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that such obligations are rated, pursuant to the internal scoring or rating procedures of an internationally recognized financial institution not an Affiliate of the Lessee, at a level not less than the equivalent of by S&P or by Moody's; and
"BBB+"
"Baa1"
"BBB+"
"Baa1"
(2)            shall present an acceptable exposure to the Administrative Agent, in accordance with the Administrative Agent's then current guidelines regarding the Administrative Agent's existing outstanding credits to such surviving or acquiring Person, the industry that constitutes such Person's primary business activities, and the country(ies) in which such Person conducts its primary business activities, based on the Administrative Agent's exposures at the time of such merger, consolidation or disposition of assets;
(C)            In each case, no Lease Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such merger, consolidation or disposition or will occur after giving effect to such merger, consolidation, acquisition or disposition; and
(D)            in each case in which the Lessee is not the surviving Person, the chief executive officer, chief financial officer or treasurer of the surviving Person shall have delivered a Compliance Certificate as of the date of such merger, consolidation or disposition certifying as to the matters in clause (C) above and showing the calculation of the financial ratio set forth in Section 9.3.
 
35
 
(ii)           Enter into or consummate any Acquisitions, that the Lessee or its Subsidiaries may enter into or consummate Acquisitions if (A) the Acquired Entity related to any such Acquisition is not engaged in any material line of business that is not the same as or reasonably related to those lines of business conducted by the Lessee and its Subsidiaries on the date such Acquisition is consummated; (B) no Default exists or would result from the consummation of such Acquisition; and (C) other than in conjunction with an Exempt Acquisition, the Lessee shall provide to the Administrative Agent, no later than the date the next ensuing Compliance Certificate is required to be delivered hereunder, such financial and other information regarding the Person who is being so acquired, including historical financial statements (not exceeding the preceding four full fiscal quarter period) and a description of such Person, as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request.
provided
(d)             Make any Disposition or enter into any agreement to make any Disposition, except:
Dispositions.
(i)            Dispositions of obsolete or worn out property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, in the ordinary course of business;
(ii)           Dispositions of inventory in the ordinary course of business;
(iii)          Dispositions of equipment or real property to the extent that (i) such property is exchanged for credit against the purchase price of similar replacement property or (ii) the proceeds of such Disposition are reasonably promptly applied to the purchase price of such replacement property;
(iv)          Dispositions of property by any Subsidiary to the Lessee or to a wholly-owned Subsidiary; provided that if the transferor of such property is a Subsidiary Guarantor, the transferee thereof must either be the Lessee or a Subsidiary Guarantor;
(v)           Dispositions permitted by Section 9.2(c);
(vi)          non-exclusive licenses of IP Rights in the ordinary course of business and substantially consistent with past practice for terms not exceeding five years;
(vii)         Dispositions of Investments other than Dispositions prohibited by Section 9.2(c);
(viii)        sales or assignments of defaulted receivables to a collection agency in the ordinary course of business; and
(ix)           other Dispositions by the Lessee and its Subsidiaries not otherwise permitted under this Section 9.2(d), that (A) no Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of, or will result after giving effect to, any such Disposition and (B) the aggregate book value of all such Dispositions made
provided
36
during the term of this Participation Agreement does not together exceed the greater of (1) $300,000,000 and (2) 20% of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth determined as of the last day of the most recent fiscal year for which financial statements have been provided hereunder;
, that any Disposition pursuant to clauses (i) through (ix) shall be for fair market value.
provided, however
(e)           .  Declare or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, or incur any obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so if there exists or would result therefrom any Default; except as follows:
Restricted Payments
(i)            The Lessee or any of its Subsidiaries may pay dividends on its capital stock or other Equity Interests payable solely in such Person's own capital stock or Equity Interests;
(ii)           The Lessee may purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise acquire for value (together, ) its Equity Interests issued to employees of the Lessee or its Subsidiaries in exchange solely for other Equity Interests of the Lessee, provided such Repurchase shall occur pursuant to a Contractual Obligation entered into by the Lessee prior to and not in anticipation of any Default and approved by the Board of Directors of the Lessee;
"Repurchase"
(iii)          Any Subsidiary of the Lessee may pay dividends to or repurchase its Equity Interests from the Lessee or another wholly-owned Subsidiary;
(iv)          Any Adobe VC Partnership may make ordinary course distributions to its partners in ratable fashion, according to their respective interests; and
(v)           The Lessee may Repurchase its Equity Interests from an employee of the Lessee or its Subsidiaries (A) in an amount equal to any taxes payable by such employee upon the exercise of options to purchase Equity Interests of the Lessee approved by the Board of Directors of the Lessee, or (B) upon termination of such employee's employment with the Lessee or its Subsidiaries; the aggregate cash amount of such Repurchase, together with all other cash Repurchases by the Lessee under this subsection (v), shall not exceed $20,000,000 in the aggregate.
provided
(f)            .  Engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by the Lessee and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto, the Lessee may establish and maintain an Eligible Captive Insurance Subsidiary.
Change in Nature of Business
provided
(g)           .  Enter into any transaction of any kind with any Affiliate of the Lessee, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, except (i) for agreements with officers and directors of the Lessee or its Subsidiaries for
Transactions with Affiliates
37
(A) indemnification or participation under the Lessee's equity plans or (3) loans to or retention or severance agreements with officers and directors of the Lessee or its Subsidiaries, each as approved by the Board of Directors of the Lessee; (ii) on fair and reasonable terms substantially as favorable to the Lessee or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by the Lessee or such Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate; (iii) loans to Affiliates in which the Lessee or its Subsidiaries have made venture capital Investments, provided the material terms thereof are fair and reasonable as compared with other, similar venture capital Investments; or (iv) in connection with the provision of insurance to the Lessee and its Subsidiaries by an Eligible Captive Insurance Subsidiary as contemplated by Section 9.1(g).
SECTION 9.3.   .  Until the termination of this Participation Agreement and the satisfaction in full by the Lessee of all Obligations, the Lessee shall not permit its Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter (commencing with the fiscal quarter ended December 1, 2006) for any consecutive four-quarter period to be greater than 3.00 to 1.00.
Financial Covenant
ARTICLE X GROUND LEASE
SECTION 10.1. .  The Lessee will, for the benefit of the Lessor, perform all obligations, covenants and agreements to be performed by the Lessor, as tenant, under the Ground Lease, and the Lessor shall have no responsibility for compliance with such obligations, covenants and agreements.  In addition to and not in limitation of any of the Lessee's other obligations under the Lease, the Lessee shall punctually pay and perform for the benefit of the Lessor all of the obligations and liabilities whatsoever of the Lessor under the Ground Lease, including, without limitation, paying all rent due from time to time under the Ground Lease and indemnifying the Lessor from and against all claims for which the Lessor is liable under the Ground Lease to the landlord thereunder.  The Lessee agrees that it will not take any action, or omit to take any action, that could result in a default under the Ground Lease or the termination of the Ground Lease.
  Ground Lease
ARTICLE XI EXTENSION OF LEASE TERM;
SECTION 11.1. .  Lessee shall have the right, so long as no Lease Default shall have then occurred and be continuing (or shall have later occurred prior to the Original Expiration Date), to extend the Scheduled Lease Term Termination Date to March 26, 2017 (the ).  If the Lessee elects to exercise the Renewal Option, the Lessee shall, not later than the date occurring one-hundred and eighty (180) days prior to March 26, 2012 (the ), give written notice (a ) to the Lessor, the Lenders and the Purchasers that Lessee elects to extend the Scheduled Lease Term Termination Date to March 26, 2017; that unless the Lessee has either (i) exercised the option to purchase the Property pursuant to Article XVIII of the Lease or the
  Right of Lessee to Extend
"Renewal Option"
"Original Expiration Date"
"Term Extension Notice"
provided, however,
38
 day prior to the Original Expiration Date, Lessee shall be deemed to have exercised the Renewal Option, whether or not Lessee timely delivers a term Extension Notice as provided above.  The Lessee and the Participants shall enter into such documentation evidencing and memorializing the exercise of the Renewal Option as each such party shall reasonably request.  Such documentation shall, , contain (A) a recitation that each of the representations and warranties made by the Lessee in or pursuant to the Operative Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects as if made on and as of such date (except to the extent any such representation or warranty specifically relates to an earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty shall have been true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date), (B) satisfactory evidence (which may include legal opinions of counsel satisfactory to Lessor and Administrative Agent) of Lessee's corporate authorization to enter into the Renewal Option, the continued enforceability of the Operative Documents as so amended and such other matters as Lessor and Administrative Agent shall reasonably request, and (C) any changes to the Maximum Recourse Amount that may be then required by GAAP.
Remarketing Option pursuant of Article XX of the Lease, or (ii) delivered a written notice to the Lessor that the Lessee is electing not tot extend the then current Scheduled Lease Term Termination Date, prior to the 180
th
inter alia
ARTICLE XII TRANSFERS OF PARTICIPANTS' INTERESTS
SECTION 12.1.
  Assignments by Participants.
(a)           .  Each Lender may, with the prior written consent of the Lessee, the Administrative Agent and the Lessor (which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld, , that (i) the consent of the Lessee shall not be required if a Lease Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (ii) no such consents shall be required in the case of an assignment by a Lender to another Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender), assign all or a portion of its rights and obligations hereunder to one or more commercial banks, financial institutions or (as defined in Regulation D of the SEC); that (i) each such assignment shall be of a constant, not varying, percentage of all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under the Operative Documents; and (ii) any such assignment shall be in a minimum aggregate amount of $5,000,000 of the assigning Lender's Commitment (or the balance of such Commitment, if less).  The Administrative Agent agrees that upon notice of any such assignment and surrender of the appropriate Note or Notes, it will promptly provide to the assigning Lender and to the assignee separate promissory Notes in the amount of their respective interests substantially in the form of the original Note (but with notation thereon that it is given in substitution for and replacement of the original Note or any replacement notes thereof).
Assignments by Lenders
provided, however
"accredited investors"
provided,
(b)           .  Each Purchaser may assign all or a portion of its rights and obligations hereunder to one or more commercial banks, financial institutions or (as defined in Regulation D of the SEC); that (i) each such assignment shall be of a constant, not varying, percentage of all of the assigning Purchaser's rights and obligations under the Operative Documents; and (ii) any such assignment shall be in a minimum aggregate amount of $5,000,000 of the assigning Purchaser's Commitment (or the
Assignments by Purchasers
"accredited investors"
provided,
39
balance of such Commitment, if less) pursuant to an assignment agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.  Upon surrender of any Certificate to the Administrative Agent for registration of transfer or exchange (and in the case of a surrender for registration of transfer, duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer duly executed by the Purchaser of such Certificate or its attorney duly authorized in writing and accompanied by the address for notices of each transferee of such Certificate or part thereof), the Lessor shall execute and deliver, at the Lessor's expense (except as provided below), one or more new Certificates (as requested by the Purchaser thereof) in exchange therefor, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the Purchaser Balance of the surrendered Certificate.  Each such new Certificate shall name such new Person as such Purchaser may request and shall be substantially in the form of the Certificate originally issued hereunder or under any Receivables Purchase Agreement.  The Lessor may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any stamp tax or governmental charge imposed in respect of any such transfer of Purchased Interests.  Certificates shall not be transferred in denominations of less than $5,000,000, that if necessary to enable the registration of transfer by a Purchaser of its entire Purchased Interest, one Certificate may be in a denomination of less than $5,000,000.
provided
(c)           .  The Lessor may, with the prior written consent of the Lessee and the Administrative Agent (which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld; , that the consent of the Lessee shall not be required if any Lease Default shall have occurred and be continuing) assign all of its rights and obligations hereunder to any other Person pursuant to an assignment agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Lessee and the Administrative Agent (, that Lessee's approval shall not be required if a Lease Default shall have occurred and be continuing), which assignment agreement shall, in the case of any assignment of less than all outstanding Lessor Amounts, include such agency provisions as the original Lessor may deem necessary or appropriate.  The Lessor shall make such filings and give such notices as shall be necessary to evidence such assignment in all public offices where filings have been made under the Operative Documents, and the Lessee and the Administrative Agent shall cooperate with the Lessor in effecting such filings and notices.  In connection with any assignment pursuant to this Section 12.1(c), the Lessee and the Administrative Agent will, promptly upon the request of the Lessor, execute and deliver an acknowledgment of such assignment and the succession of the transferee to all rights and obligations of the transferor Lessor under the Operative Documents in such form as the transferee may reasonably request in connection with an assignment pursuant to this Section 12.1(c).
Assignments by Lessor
provided, however
provided
(d)           .  Upon (i) the delivery to the Lessee, the Lessor and the Administrative Agent of an assignment agreement in accordance with this Section 12.1, (ii) the receipt of any applicable consents required hereunder in connection therewith and (iii) in the case of any assignment by a Lender, the payment by the assignor or assignee Participant to the Administrative Agent for its own account of a transfer fee of $5,000, then, from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment Agreement, the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment Agreement, have the rights and obligations of a Participant under this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents and become a or (as applicable) for all purposes of the Operative Documents and the assigning Participant shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment Agreement release and be released from its rights and obligations under this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents.
Effectiveness of Assignments
"Purchaser,"
"Lender"
"Lessor"
40
SECTION 12.2. .  Any Participant may, at any time, sell to one or more financial institutions (each, a ) participating interests in all or a portion of its rights and obligations under the Operative Documents, its Loans, its Purchased Interests or its Lessor Amounts; , that (a) no participation contemplated in this Section 12.2 shall relieve the applicable Participant from any of its obligations hereunder or under the other Operative Documents; (b) the Participant shall remain solely responsible for the performance of its obligations hereunder and under the other Operative Documents; (c) the Lessee and the other parties hereto shall continue to deal solely and directly with the Participant in connection with their respective obligations hereunder and under the other Operative Documents; (d) no Sub-Participant (unless such Sub-Participant is also a Participant) shall be entitled to require the Participant to take or refrain from taking any action hereunder or under the other Operative Documents, except that such Participant may agree with any Sub-Participant that such Participant will not, without the Sub-Participant's consent, take any actions of the type described in Section 16.5(b) or agree to any amendment, waiver or modification that would (A) reduce (i) the principal amount of any Loan, (ii) the amount of Capital or (iii) the amount of any Lessor Amount participated in by such Sub-Participant, or reduce the interest rate, Return or Yield Rate applicable to or fees payable in respect of, any such Loan, Purchased Interests or Lessor Amount or (B) extend the Scheduled Lease Term Termination Date (except as otherwise provided herein); and (e) the Lessee shall not be required to pay any amount under this Participation Agreement that is greater than the amount which it would have been required to pay had no participating interest been sold.
  Participations
"Sub-Participant"
provided, however
SECTION 12.3. .  Anything in this Article XII to the contrary notwithstanding, each Participant may without the consent of the Lessee or any other Person assign and pledge all or any portion of its Loans, Purchased Interests or Lessor Amounts, as applicable, held by it to any Federal Reserve Bank or to the United States Treasury as collateral security pursuant to Regulation A of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and any operating circular issued by the Federal Reserve System and/or the Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise.
  Pledge Under Regulation A
SECTION 12.4. .  Lessee hereby acknowledges that the right of the Lessor to receive Rent and certain other rights under the Lease (other than the right to receive certain Excepted Payments) will be transferred by the Lessor to the Administrative Agent (for further distribution to the Purchasers and the Lenders as their interests may appear under the Operative Documents) pursuant to the Assignment of Lease and Rent; , that all Basic Rent and Supplemental Rent (other than Supplemental Rent in respect of Contingent Payments) shall be paid to the Administrative Agent for distribution as set forth in Article VII.
  Acknowledgment of Assignment of Lease and Rent
provided, however
41
ARTICLE XIII INDEMNIFICATION
SECTION 13.1. .
  General Indemnification
(a)           .  During the Lease Term, the Lessee shall assume liability for, and indemnify, protect, defend, save and keep harmless each Indemnitee, on an After Tax Basis, from and against, any and all Claims arising during the Lease Term or thereafter that may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against such Indemnitee (whether because of action or omission by such Indemnitee or otherwise), whether or not such Indemnitee shall also be indemnified as to any such Claim by any other Person, in any way relating to or arising in whole or in part out of (or alleged to in any way relate to or arise in whole or in part out of):
Lease Term
(i)            any agreement for the purchase or ground lease of the Land (including the Ground Lease), or the assignment to the Lessor of any such purchase agreement or ground lease, any other document, instrument or agreement relating thereto or any of the transactions contemplated by any of the foregoing;
(ii)           any of the Operative Documents or any of the transactions contemplated thereby, and any amendment, modification or waiver in respect thereof;
(iii)          the Property or any part thereof or interest therein;
(iv)          the purchase, design, construction, preparation, installation, inspection, delivery, nondelivery, acceptance, rejection, ownership, management, possession, operation, rental, lease, sublease, repossession, maintenance, repair, alteration, modification, addition or substitution, storage, transfer of title, redelivery, use, financing, refinancing, disposition, operation, condition, sale (including, without limitation, any sale pursuant to Section 16.2(c) or 16.2(e) of the Lease or any sale pursuant to Article XV, XVIII or XX of the Lease), return or other disposition of all or any part or any interest in the Property or the imposition of any Lien (or incurring of any liability to refund or pay over any amount as a result of any Lien) thereon, including, without limitation:  (A) Claims or penalties arising from any violation of law or in tort (on the basis of strict liability or otherwise), (B) latent or other defects, whether or not discoverable, (C) any Claim based upon a violation or alleged violation of the terms of any restriction, easement, condition or covenant or other matter affecting title to any of the Property, (D) the making of any Modifications in violation of any standards imposed by any insurance policies required to be maintained by the Lessee pursuant to the Lease which are in effect at any time with respect to the Property or any part thereof, (E) any Claim for patent, trademark or copyright infringement, and (F) Claims arising from any public improvements with respect to the Property resulting in any change or special assessments being levied against the Property or any plans to widen, modify or realign any street or highway adjacent to the Property, or any Claim for utility fees;
"tap-in"
42
(v)           the breach or alleged breach by the Lessee of any covenant, representation or warranty made by it in any Operative Document or any certificate required to be delivered by any Operative Document;
(vi)          the retaining or employment of any broker, finder or financial advisor by the Lessee to act on its behalf in connection with this Participation Agreement or any other Operative Document or pursuant to the acquisition of the Property or any part thereof pursuant to this Participation Agreement;
(vii)         the existence of any Lien on or with respect to the Property, the Improvements, any Basic Rent or Supplemental Rent, title thereto, or any interest therein including any Liens which arise out of the possession, use, occupancy, construction, repair or rebuilding of the Property or by reason of labor or materials furnished or claimed to have been furnished to the Lessee, or any of its contractors or agents or by reason of the financing of any personalty or equipment purchased or leased by the Lessee or Modifications constructed by the Lessee, except Lessor Liens and Liens in favor of the Lessor and/or the Participants; or
(viii)        the transactions contemplated by the Lease or by any other Operative Document, in respect of the application of Parts 4 and 5 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA and any prohibited transaction described in Section 4975(c) of the Code.
(b)           .  Notwithstanding the provisions of clause (a) of this Section 13.1, the Lessee shall not be required to indemnify any Indemnitee under this Section 13.1 for any of the following:  (i) any Claim to the extent resulting from the willful misconduct or gross negligence of such Indemnitee (it being understood that the Lessee shall be required to indemnify an Indemnitee even if the ordinary (but not gross) negligence of such Indemnitee caused or contributed to such Claim), (ii) any Claim resulting from Lessor Liens that the applicable Indemnitee is responsible for discharging under the Operative Documents, (iii) any Claim to the extent attributable to such Indemnitee's breach of any of its covenants or obligations under the Operative Documents, (iv) any Claim to the extent attributable to acts, circumstances or events occurring or existing solely after (1) the Expiration Date and (2) the return or remarketing of the Property in full compliance with all of the requirements of the Operative Documents, so long as no Lease Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, and (v) any Claim arising from a breach by such Indemnitee of any agreement entered into in connection with the assignment or participation of any Loan, Purchased Interest or Lessor Amount.  It is expressly understood and agreed that the indemnity provided for herein shall survive the expiration or termination of and shall be separate and independent from any remedy under the Lease or any other Operative Document.
Exclusions from General Indemnity
(c)           .  Without limiting the express rights of the Indemnitees under this Section 13.1, this Section 13.1 shall be construed as an indemnity only and not a guaranty of the residual value of the Property or as a guarantee of the Loans, Purchased Interests or Lessor Amounts.
No Guaranty of Residual Value
43
SECTION 13.2. .
  End of Term Indemnity
(a)           If the Lessee elects the Remarketing Option and there would, after giving effect to the proposed remarketing transactions, be a Shortfall Amount, then prior to the Expiration Date and as a condition to the Lessee's right to complete the remarketing of the Property pursuant to Section 20.1 of the Lease, the Lessee shall cause to be delivered to the Lessor at least thirty (30) days prior to the Expiration Date, at the Lessee's sole cost and expense, a report from the Appraiser in form and substance satisfactory to the Lessor (the ) which shall state the Appraiser's conclusions as to the reason for any decline in the Fair Market Sales Value of the Property from the Property Cost.
"End of the Term Report"
(b)           If the Lessee elects the Remarketing Option, then on or prior to the Expiration Date, the Lessee shall pay to the Lessor, for distribution in accordance with Section 7.4, an amount (not to exceed the Shortfall Amount) equal to the portion of the Shortfall Amount that the End of the Term Report demonstrates was the result of a decline in the Fair Market Sales Value of the Property due to:
(i)            extraordinary use, failure to use, use contrary to the limitations imposed by the Lease or the intended purposes as contemplated by Section 8.2 of the Lease; or any failure to maintain, to repair, to restore, to rebuild or to replace the Property as required under the Lease; or any failure of the Property to be in compliance with all Applicable Laws, or
(ii)           any Modification made to, or any rebuilding of, the Property or any part thereof by the or any Sublessee, whether or not permitted pursuant to the Operating Documents, or
(iii)          the existence of any Hazardous Activity, Hazardous Materials or Environmental Violations, the indemnity for which shall not exceed the cost of the remediation thereof, or
(iv)          any grant, release, dedication, transfer, annexation or amendment made pursuant to Section 12.2 of the Lease, or
(v)           any restoration or rebuilding carried out by the Lessee or any sublessee; or the removal of Modifications or fixtures pursuant to the last paragraph of Section 10.1 of the Lease, or
(vi)          any Condemnation of any portion of the Property, or
(vii)         the failure of the Lessor to have good and marketable title to the Property free and clear of all Liens (other than Permitted Property Liens of the type described in clauses (a), (b), (g), or (h) of the definition thereof), or
(viii)        the existence of any sublease relating to the Property.
(c)           In addition to the foregoing and not in limitation of the other provisions hereof, including the provisions of this Article XIII, in the event that all of the structural
44
Modifications, restoration and rebuilding of the Property, if any, pursuant to Section 10.1 and 14.1 (as the case may be) of the Lease shall not have been completed in accordance with the provisions of such Section(s) prior to the Expiration Date, then the report from the Appraiser shall state the Appraiser's opinion as to the amount determined by subtracting the Fair Market Sales Value of the Property given the state and condition of non-completion of such structural Modifications, restoration and rebuilding of the Property; and giving effect to scheduled and funded construction to the Expiration Date from the Appraiser's determination of the Fair Market Sales Value of the Property as if such structural Modifications, restoration and rebuilding had been completed (such difference in amount being referred to herein as the ), and the Lessee shall on the Expiration Date pay to the Lessor the amount of the Property Completion Differential for the Property; , that the foregoing shall in no event exceed the Shortfall Amount.
"Property Completion Differential"
provided, however
SECTION 13.3. .  Without limitation of the other provisions of this Article XIII, the Lessee hereby agrees (at all times, including without limitation, whether or not the Lease Term shall have commenced) to indemnify, hold harmless and defend each Indemnitee from and against any and all Claims (including, without limitation, third party claims for personal injury or real or personal property damage), losses (including, but not limited to, to the extent the Property Cost has not been fully paid, any loss of value of the Property related thereto), damages, liabilities, fines, penalties, charges, administrative and judicial proceedings (including informal proceedings) and orders, judgments, remedial action, requirements, enforcement actions of any kind, and all reasonable and documented costs and expenses incurred in connection therewith (including, but not limited to, reasonable and documented attorneys' and/or paralegals' fees and expenses), including, but not limited to, all costs incurred in connection with any investigation or monitoring of site conditions or any clean-up, remedial, removal or restoration work by any federal, state or local government agency, in any way relating to or arising in whole or in part, out of (or alleged to in any way relate to or arise in whole or in part out of):
  Environmental Indemnity
(a)           the presence on or under any of the Property of any Hazardous Materials, or any releases or discharges of any Hazardous Materials on, under, from or onto any of the Property;
(b)           any activity, including, without limitation, construction, carried on or undertaken on or off any of the Property, and whether by the Lessee or any predecessor in title or any employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors of the Lessee or any predecessor in title, or any other Persons (including such Indemnitee), in connection with the handling, treatment, removal, storage, decontamination, clean-up, transport or disposal of any Hazardous Materials that at any time are located or present on or under or that at any time migrate, flow, percolate, diffuse or in any way move onto or under any of the Property;
(c)           loss of or damage to any property or the environment (including, without limitation, clean-up costs, response costs, remediation and removal costs, costs of corrective action, costs of financial assurance, fines and penalties and natural resource damages), or death or injury to any Person, and all expenses associated with the protection of wildlife, aquatic species, vegetation, flora and fauna, and any mitigative
45
action required by or under Environmental Laws arising from the Property or related thereto;
(d)           any Claim concerning lack of compliance with Environmental Laws at the Property, or any act or omission causing an Environmental Violation that requires remediation or would allow any Governmental Authority to record a Lien on the land records of the Property; or
(e)           any residual contamination on or under any of the Land, or affecting any natural resources, and to any contamination of any property or natural resources arising in connection with the generation, use, handling, storage, transport or disposal of any such Hazardous Materials on or relating to the Land, and irrespective of whether any of such activities were or will be undertaken in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, codes and ordinances,
, that the Lessee shall not be required to indemnify any Indemnitee under this Section 13.3 for (i) any Claim to the extent resulting from the willful misconduct or gross negligence of such Indemnitee (it being understood that the Lessee shall be required to indemnify an Indemnitee even if the ordinary (but not gross) negligence of such Indemnitee caused or contributed to such Claim) or (ii) any Claim to the extent attributable solely to acts, circumstances or events occurring after (1) the expiration of the Lease Term and (2) the return or remarketing of the Property in full compliance with the provisions of the Operative Documents, so long as no Lease Default or Lease Event of Default has occurred.  It is expressly understood and agreed that the indemnity provided for herein shall survive the expiration or termination of and shall be separate and independent from any remedy under the Lease or any other Operative Document.
provided, however
SECTION 13.4. .  With respect to any amount that the Lessee is requested by an Indemnitee to pay by reason of Section 13.1 or 13.3, such Indemnitee shall, if so requested by the Lessee and prior to any payment, submit such additional information to the Lessee as the Lessee may reasonably request and which is in the possession of such Indemnitee to substantiate properly the requested payment.
  Proceedings in Respect of Claims
In case any action, suit or proceeding shall be brought against any Indemnitee, such Indemnitee shall notify the Lessee of the commencement thereof, (but the failure to effect such notification shall not affect any debt, duty or obligation of Lessee hereunder except to the extent that the Lessee has been effectively precluded from contesting such action, suit or proceeding as a result of such failure), and the Lessee shall be entitled, at the Lessee's expense, to participate in, and, to the extent that the Lessee desires to, assume and control the defense thereof; , that the Lessee shall have acknowledged in writing its obligation to fully indemnify such Indemnitee in respect of such action, suit or proceeding, and, the Lessee shall keep such Indemnitee fully apprised of the status of such action, suit or proceeding and shall provide such Indemnitee with all material information with respect to such action, suit or proceeding as such Indemnitee shall reasonably request, and , that the Lessee shall not be entitled to assume and control the defense of any such action, suit or proceeding if and to the extent that (i) in the reasonable opinion of such Indemnitee (A) such action, suit or proceeding involves any risk of imposition of criminal liability or will involve a material risk of the sale, forfeiture or loss
provided, however
provided, further
46
of, or the creation of any Lien (other than a Permitted Property Lien of the type described in clause (a), (b) or (h) of the definition thereof) on the Property or any part thereof or (B) the control of such action, suit or proceeding would involve an actual or potential conflict of interest, (ii) such proceeding involves Claims not fully indemnified by the Lessee which the Lessee and the Indemnitee have been unable to sever from the indemnified claim(s), or (iii) any Lease Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.  The Indemnitee may participate in a reasonable manner at its own expense and with its own counsel in any proceeding conducted by the Lessee in accordance with the foregoing; the fees and expenses of any such counsel shall be for the applicable Indemnitee's account except to the extent that representation of such Indemnitee and of the Lessee by the same counsel is inappropriate due to actual or potential conflicts of interest between them.  The Lessee shall not enter into any settlement or other compromise with respect to any Claim which is entitled to be indemnified under Section 13.1 or 13.3without the prior written consent of the Indemnitee, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld in the case of a money settlement not involving an admission of liability of such Indemnitee.
Each Indemnitee shall at the expense of the Lessee supply the Lessee with such information and documents reasonably requested by the Lessee as are necessary or advisable for the Lessee to participate in any action, suit or proceeding to the extent permitted by Section 13.1 or 13.3.  Unless a Lease Default or Lease Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, no Indemnitee shall enter into any settlement or other compromise with respect to any Claim that is entitled to be indemnified under Section 13.1 or 13.3 without the prior written consent of the Lessee, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, unless such Indemnitee waives its right to be indemnified under Section 13.1 or 13.3 with respect to such Claim.
Upon payment in full of any Claim by the Lessee pursuant to Section 13.1 or 13.3 to or on behalf of an Indemnitee, the Lessee, without any further action, shall be subrogated to any and all claims that such Indemnitee may have relating thereto (other than claims in respect of insurance policies maintained by such Indemnitee at its own expense), and, at the Lessee's sole cost and expense, such Indemnitee shall execute such instruments of assignment and conveyance, and evidence of claims and payment as may reasonably be necessary to preserve any such subrogation claims.
Any amount payable to an Indemnitee pursuant to Section 13.1 or 13.3 shall be paid to such Indemnitee promptly upon receipt of a written demand therefor from such Indemnitee, accompanied by a written statement describing in reasonable detail the basis for such indemnity and the computation of the amount so payable.
SECTION 13.5.
  General Tax Indemnity.
(a)           .  The Lessee shall pay and assume liability for, and does hereby agree to indemnify, protect and defend the Property and all Tax Indemnitees, and hold them harmless against, all Impositions on an After Tax Basis.  The determination of all Impositions to be paid or indemnified against by the Lessee on an After Tax Basis shall be made (in good faith) by the Tax Indemnitee.  Such determination shall state with reasonable clarity and detail the basis for such determination and shall, absent manifest error, be final and conclusive and binding on the Lessee.
Indemnification
 
47
(b)             If any claim shall be made against any Tax Indemnitee or if any proceeding shall be commenced against any Tax Indemnitee (including a written notice of such proceeding) for any Imposition as to which the Lessee may have an indemnity obligation pursuant to this Section 13.5, or if any Tax Indemnitee shall determine that any Imposition to which the Lessee may have an indemnity obligation pursuant to this Section 13.5 may be payable, such Tax Indemnitee shall within thirty (30) days notify the Lessee in writing (, that failure to so notify the Lessee within thirty (30) days shall not alter such Tax Indemnitee's rights under this Section 13.5 except to the extent such failure precludes the ability to conduct a contest of any Impositions) and shall not take any action with respect to such claim, proceeding or Imposition without the written consent of the Lessee (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or unreasonably delayed) for thirty (30) days after the receipt of such notice by the Lessee; , that in the case of any such claim or proceeding, if such Tax Indemnitee shall be required by Applicable Law to take action prior to the end of such thirty (30) day period, such Tax Indemnitee shall in such notice to the Lessee, so inform the Lessee, and such Tax Indemnitee shall not take any action with respect to such claim, proceeding or Imposition without the consent of the Lessee (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or unreasonably delayed) for ten (10) days after the receipt of such notice by the Lessee unless such Tax Indemnitee shall be required by Applicable Law or regulation to take action prior to the end of such ten (10) day period, , however, that the failure of the Tax Indemnitee to give notice referred to in this sentence shall not diminish Lessee's obligations hereunder except to the extent that such failure precludes Lessee from contesting such claim.
Contests.
provided
provided, however
provided, further
The Lessee shall be entitled for a period of thirty (30) days from receipt of such notice from such Tax Indemnitee (or such shorter period as such Tax Indemnitee has notified the Lessee is required by Applicable Law for such Tax Indemnitee to commence such contest) to request in writing that such Tax Indemnitee contest the imposition of such Tax, at the Lessee's sole cost and expense.  If (i) such contest can be pursued in the name of the Lessee and independently from any other proceeding involving a Tax liability of such Tax Indemnitee for which the Lessee has not agreed to indemnify such Tax Indemnitee, (ii) such contest must be pursued in the name of such Tax Indemnitee, but can be pursued independently from any other proceeding involving a Tax liability of such Tax Indemnitee for which the Lessee has not agreed to indemnify such Tax Indemnitee or (iii) such Tax Indemnitee so requests, then the Lessee shall be permitted to control the contest of such claim,, that in the case of a contest described in clause (ii), if such Tax Indemnitee reasonably determines that such contest by the Lessee could have an adverse impact on the business or operations of such Tax Indemnitee, such Tax Indemnitee may elect to control or reassert control of the contest, and , that by taking control of the contest, the Lessee acknowledges that it is responsible for the Imposition ultimately determined to be due by reason of such claim.  In all other claims requested to be contested by the Lessee, such Tax Indemnitee shall control the contest of such claim, acting through counsel reasonably acceptable to the Lessee.  In no event shall the Lessee be permitted to contest (or such Tax Indemnitee required to contest) any claim (A) if such Tax Indemnitee provides the Lessee with a legal opinion of counsel reasonably acceptable to the Lessee that such action, suit or proceeding involves a risk of imposition of criminal liability or could involve a material risk of the sale, forfeiture or loss of, or the creation of any Lien (other than a Permitted Property Lien of the type described in clause (a), (b), (g) or (h) of the definition thereof) on the
provided
provided
48
Property or any part of any thereof unless the Lessee shall have posted and maintained a bond or other security satisfactory to the relevant Tax Indemnitee in respect to such risk, (B) if a Lease Event of Default has occurred and is continuing unless the Lessee shall have posted and maintained a bond or other security satisfactory to the relevant Tax Indemnitee in its sole discretion in respect of the Taxes subject to such claim and any and all expenses for which the Lessee is responsible hereunder reasonably foreseeable in connection with the contest of such claim, (C) unless the Lessee shall have agreed to pay and shall pay, to such Tax Indemnitee on demand all reasonable out-of-pocket costs, losses and expenses that such Tax Indemnitee may incur in connection with contesting such Imposition including all reasonable legal, accounting and investigatory fees and disbursements, or (D) if such contest shall involve the payment of the Tax prior to the contest, unless the Lessee shall provide to such Tax Indemnitee an interest-free advance in an amount equal to the Imposition that the Tax Indemnitee is required to pay (with no additional net after-tax costs to such Tax Indemnitee).  In addition, for Tax Indemnitee controlled contests and claims contested in the name of such Tax Indemnitee in a public forum, no contest shall be required unless:  (A) the amount of the potential indemnity (taking into account all similar or logically related claims that have been or could be raised in any audit involving such Tax Indemnitee with respect to any period for which the Lessee may be liable to pay an indemnity under this Section 13.5(b)) exceeds $50,000, (B) if requested by such Tax Indemnitee, the Lessee shall have provided to such Tax Indemnitee an opinion of counsel selected by the Lessee (except, in the case of income taxes indemnified hereunder, in which case such opinion shall be an opinion of independent tax counsel selected by such Tax Indemnitee and reasonably acceptable to the Lessee) that a reasonable basis exists to contest such claim (or, in the case of an appeal of an adverse determination, an opinion of such counsel to the effect that there is substantial authority for the position asserted in such appeal) and (C) Lessee shall have acknowledged in writing to the Tax Indemnitee its obligation to pay the costs and expenses thereof and to indemnify such Tax Indemnitee pursuant to this Section 13.5 for the Taxes subject to the proposed contest, if such contest is unsuccessful.  In no event shall a Tax Indemnitee be required to appeal an adverse judicial determination to the United States Supreme Court.  In addition, a Tax Indemnitee shall not be required to contest any claim in its name (or that of an Affiliate) if the subject matter thereof shall be of a continuing nature and shall have previously been decided adversely by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to the contest provisions of this Section 13.5(b), unless there shall have been a Change in Law and the Tax Indemnitee shall have received, at the Lessee's expense, an opinion of independent tax counsel selected by the Lessee and reasonably acceptable to the Tax Indemnitee stating that, as a result of such Change in Law, it is more likely than not that the Tax Indemnitee will prevail in such contest.
The party conducting the contest shall consult in good faith with the other party and its counsel with respect to the contest of such claim for Taxes, , that the decisions regarding what actions to be taken shall be made by the controlling party in its sole judgment.  In addition, the controlling party shall keep the non-controlling party reasonably informed as to the progress of the contest, and shall provide the non-controlling party with a copy of (or appropriate excerpts from) any reports or claims issued by the relevant auditing agents or taxing authority to the controlling party thereof, in connection with such claim or the contest thereof.
provided, however
Each Tax Indemnitee shall, at the Lessee's sole cost and expense, supply the Lessee with such information and documents reasonably requested by the Lessee as are necessary or advisable for the Lessee to participate in any action, suit or proceeding to the extent permitted by
49
this Section 13.5(b); , that such Tax Indemnitee shall not be required to provide to the Lessee copies of (i) any information, documentation or materials that it reasonably deems to be confidential or proprietary or (ii) its tax returns or any other information, documentation or materials in respect of such Tax Indemnitee's financial position.  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 13.5(b) to the contrary, no Tax Indemnitee shall enter into any settlement or other compromise or fail to appeal an adverse ruling with respect to any claim which is entitled to be indemnified under this Section 13.5 (and with respect to which contest is required under this Section 13.5(b)) without the prior written consent of the Lessee, unless such Tax Indemnitee waives its right to be indemnified under this Section 13.5 with respect to such claim.  No settlement of any contest may be made by the Lessee without the Tax Indemnitee's written consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld).
provided, however
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, a Tax Indemnitee will not be required to contest (and the Lessee shall not be permitted to contest) a claim with respect to the imposition of any Tax if such Tax Indemnitee shall waive its right to indemnification under this Section 13.5 with respect to such claim (and any claim with respect to such year or any other taxable year the contest of which is materially adversely affected as a result of such waiver).
(c)           .  Any Imposition indemnifiable under this Section 13.5 shall be paid directly when due to the applicable taxing authority if direct payment is practicable and permitted.  If direct payment to the applicable taxing authority is not permitted or is otherwise not made, any amount payable to a Tax Indemnitee pursuant to Section 13.5 shall be paid within twenty (20) days after receipt of a written demand therefor from such Tax Indemnitee accompanied by a written statement describing in reasonable detail the amount so payable, but in no event shall the Lessee be required to pay such reimbursement prior to fifteen (15) days before the date that the relevant Taxes are due.  Any payments made pursuant to this Section 13.5 shall be made directly to such Tax Indemnitee entitled thereto or the Lessee, as the case may be, in immediately available funds at such bank or to such account as specified by the payee in written directions to the payor, or, if no such direction shall have been given, by check of the payor payable to the order of the payee by certified mail, postage prepaid at its address as set forth in hereto.  Upon the request of any Tax Indemnitee with respect to a Tax that the Lessee is required to pay, the Lessee shall furnish to such Tax Indemnitee the original or a certified copy of a receipt for the Lessee's payment of such Tax or such other evidence of payment as is reasonably acceptable to such Tax Indemnitee.
Payments
Schedule II
(d)           .  In the case of any report, return or statement required to be filed with respect to any Taxes that are subject to indemnification under this Section 13.5 and of which the Lessee has knowledge, the Lessee shall promptly notify such Tax Indemnitee of such requirement and, at the Lessee's expense  (i) if the Lessee is permitted (unless otherwise requested by such Tax Indemnitee) by Applicable Law, timely file such report, return or statement in its own name or (ii) if such report, return or statement is required to be in the name of or filed by such Tax Indemnitee, advise such Tax Indemnitee of such fact, prepare such return, statement or report for filing by such Tax Indemnitee in such manner as shall be satisfactory to such Tax Indemnitee and send the same to such Tax Indemnitee for filing no later than fifteen (15) days prior to the due date thereof.  In any case in which such Tax Indemnitee will file any such report, return
Reports
50
or statement, the Lessee shall, upon written request of such Tax Indemnitee, provide such Tax Indemnitee with such information as is reasonably necessary to allow such Tax Indemnitee to timely file such report, return or statement.
(e)           .  Each Tax Indemnitee represents and warrants that, except as required by a Governmental Authority, it will not, prior to the termination of the Lease, claim ownership of (or any tax benefits, including depreciation, with respect to) the Property for any income tax purposes, it being understood that the Lessee is and will remain the owner of the Property for such income tax purposes until the termination of the Lease.  The Lessee represents and warrants to each Indemnitee that, for tax purposes, the Lessee will report for the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents as indebtedness of the Lessee from the Lessor maturing on the Expiration Date and bearing interest at a rate equivalent to the interest on the Loans, Return on Capital and Yield on the Lessor Amounts.  Without limiting any other indemnification obligation of the Lessee under any of the Operative Documents, the Lessee indemnifies and holds harmless, on an After Tax Basis, the Lessor, the Purchasers and the Lenders from any and all loss, cost, expense or damages suffered or incurred by reason of the Lease not being treated as indebtedness of the Lessee for purposes of federal income taxation; , that (i)  Purchasers and the Lenders shall promptly notify Lessee of any claim asserted by any Governmental Authority with respect to the Purchasers or the Lenders or any proceeding commenced against a Purchaser or a Lender pursuant to which such Governmental Authority contends that the Lease should not be treated as such indebtedness of the Lessee for purposes of federal income taxation, (ii) the Lessee shall have the right to consult with the Purchasers or the Lenders with respect to the contest of such claim or proceeding for federal income tax purposes, regardless of the amount, if any, potentially in controversy, , that the Purchasers or the Lenders shall retain the right to settle or resolve the claim or proceeding in its exclusive discretion, and (iii) the foregoing indemnification obligation of the Lessee shall be determined on the basis of the excess, if any, of the aggregate loss, cost, expense or damage suffered or incurred by the Purchasers or the Lenders if the Lease is not treated as indebtedness of the Lessee for federal income tax purposes (including any costs incurred in contesting such dispute) over the amount of any such aggregate loss, cost, expense or damage (including federal income tax) that would have been suffered or incurred by the Purchasers or the Lenders if the Lease were treated as indebtedness of the Lessee, taking into account the actual utilization by the Purchasers or the Lenders, as applicable, of any deduction or credits (it being understood that the Purchasers and the Lenders are not expected to be able to utilize such deductions or credits).
Tax Ownership
provided, however
provided, however
(f)              The parties agree that, notwithstanding any contrary implication in any of the Operative Documents, any party to this Participation Agreement (and each employee, representative or other agent of such party) may disclose the tax aspects of the transactions contemplated by the Participation Agreement and the structural aspects of these transactions as they relate to such tax aspects without limitation of any kind on such disclosure.
Disclosure.
51
(g)           .  It is expressly understood and agreed that the indemnity provided for in this Section 13.5 shall survive expiration or termination of, and shall be separate and independent from any remedy under, any Operative Document.
Separate Agreement
SECTION 13.6. .  The Lessee acknowledges and agrees that the Lessee's obligations to make indemnity payments under this Article XIII are separate from, in addition to, and do not reduce, the Lessee's obligation to pay under the Lease that portion of the Property Cost constituting the Maximum Recourse Amount.
  Indemnity Payments in Addition to Lease Obligations
SECTION 13.7. .  If, after the date of this Participation Agreement, the adoption of any Governmental Rule, any change in any Governmental Rule or the application or requirements thereof (whether such change occurs in accordance with the terms of such Governmental Rule as enacted, as a result of amendment or otherwise), any change in the interpretation or administration of any Governmental Rule by any Governmental Authority, or compliance by any Lender with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority (a ) shall make it unlawful or impossible for any Participant to make or maintain any Loan, Purchased Interest or Lessor Amount as a LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amount, such Participant shall immediately notify the Administrative Agent and the Lessee of such Change of Law.  Upon receipt of such notice, (i) the Lessee' s right to request the making of, conversion to or a new Basic Rent Period for LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts shall be terminated, and the Lessee shall, at the request of the such Participant, (A) convert any outstanding LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts into Base Rate Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts at the end of the current Basic Rent Period for such LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts or (B) immediately convert any such LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts if the Participant shall notify the Lessee that it may not lawfully continue to fund and maintain such LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts.  Any conversion of LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts made pursuant to the preceding sentence prior to the last day of the Basic Rent Period for such LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts shall be deemed a prepayment thereof for purposes of Section 13.10. After such Participant notifies the Administrative Agent and the Lessee of such a Change of Law and until such Participant notifies the Administrative Agent and the Lessee that it is no longer unlawful or impossible for such Person to make or maintain a Loan, Purchased Interest or Lessor Amount, all Loans, Capital or Lessor Amounts, as applicable, of such Person shall be Base Rate Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts.
  Illegality
"Change of Law"
SECTION 13.8. .  If, on or before the first day of any Basic Rent Period for any Loan, Purchased Interest or Lessor Amount, (i) any Participant shall advise the Administrative Agent that the BBA LIBO Rate for such Basic Rent Period cannot be adequately and reasonably determined due to the unavailability of funds in or other circumstances affecting the London interbank market or (ii) the Lessor or Required Participants shall advise the Administrative Agent that the rate of interest for such Loan, the rate of Return for such Purchased Interests or the Yield for such Lessor Amount does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Participant of making or maintaining such Loan, Purchased Interest or Lessor Amount, the Administrative Agent shall immediately give notice of such condition to the Lessee, the Lessor and the other Participants.  After the giving of any such notice and until the Administrative Agent shall otherwise notify the Lessee that the circumstances giving rise to such condition no longer exist, the Lessee's right to request the making of, conversion to or a new
  Inability to Determine Rates
52
Basic Rent Period for LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts shall be suspended.  Any LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts outstanding at the commencement of any such suspension shall begin to bear interest, Return or Yield, as applicable, by reference to the Base Rate on the last day of the then current Basic Rent Period, and shall be deemed to be converted at the end of the then current Basic Rent Period for such LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts into Base Rate Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts, unless such suspension has then ended.
SECTION 13.9. .  If, after the date of this Participation Agreement, any Change of Law:
  Increased Costs
(a)           Shall subject any Affected Party to any tax, duty or other charge with respect to any Loan, Purchased Interests or Lessor Amount, or shall change the basis of taxation of payments by the Lessee or the Lessor to any Affected Party under any Operative Document (except for changes in the rate of taxation on the overall net income of any Affected Party imposed by its jurisdiction of incorporation or the jurisdiction in which its principal executive office is located); or
(b)           Shall impose, modify or hold applicable any reserve (excluding any Reserve Requirement or other reserve to the extent included in the calculation of the BBA LIBO Rate for any Loans, Purchased Interests or Lessor Amounts), special deposit or similar requirement against assets held by, deposits or other liabilities in or for the account of, advances or loans by, or any other acquisition of funds by any Affected Party; or
(c)           Shall impose on any Affected Party any other condition;
and the effect of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Affected Party of making, renewing, or maintaining its Commitment, any Loan, Purchased Interests or Lessor Amount (or any commitment to provide the same, or to provide liquidity or other fundings in respect thereof) or to reduce any amount receivable by such Affected Party hereunder or under any Operative Document; then the Lessee shall from time to time, within five (5) Business Days after demand by such Affected Party, pay to such Affected Party additional amounts sufficient to reimburse such Affected Party for such increased costs or to compensate such Affected Party for such reduced amounts; , that the Lessee shall have no obligation to make any payment to any demanding party under this Section 13.9 on account of any such increased costs or reduced amounts unless the Lessee receives notice of such increased costs or reduced amounts from the demanding party within six (6) months after they are incurred or realized. A certificate setting forth in reasonable detail the amount of such increased costs or reduced amounts, submitted by such Affected Party to the Lessee shall constitute evidence of such costs or amounts.  The obligations of the Lessee under this Section 13.9 shall survive the termination of this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents and the payment of the Loans, Purchased Interests, Lessor Amounts and all other amounts payable under the Operative Documents.
provided, however
prima facie
SECTION 13.10.   The Lessee agrees that it shall, within five (5) Business Days after demand by any Affected Party, reimburse such Affected Party for and hold such Affected Party harmless (on an After Tax Basis) from all losses, costs and expenses (but
  Funding Losses.
53
excluding any loss of anticipated profit) that such Affected Party may sustain or incur (other than through such Person's own gross negligence or willful misconduct) as a consequence of (a) the Lessee's payment of Rent other than on a Rent Payment Date (except for Rent not due on a Rent Payment Date), (b) any Advance not being made on the date specified therefor in the applicable Funding Request (other than, if such Affected Party is a Participant, as a result of a breach by such Participant of its obligation under Section 3.1, 3.2 or 3.3, as the case may be, to make Advances or Lessor Amounts available to the Lessor), (c) the Lessee's payment of the Property Cost or any portion thereof (including any payment of Maximum Recourse Amount or Purchase Price) on any date other than a Rent Payment Date, or (d) any conversion of LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts in accordance with Section 13.7 or 13.8 on a day other than a Rent Payment Date; , that the Lessee shall have no obligation to make any payment to any demanding party under this Section 13.10 on account of any such costs or losses unless the Lessee receives notice of such costs or losses from the demanding party within six (6) months after they are incurred or realized.  The Lessee understands that such costs and losses may include, without limitation, losses incurred by an Affected Party as a result of funding, hedging and other contracts entered into by such Affected Party to fund a Loan, Purchased Interests or Lessor Amount.  Each Affected Party demanding payment under this Section 13.10 shall deliver to the Lessee, with a copy to the Administrative Agent, a certificate setting forth the amount of costs and losses for which demand is made, which certificate shall set forth in reasonable detail the calculation of the amount demanded.  Such a certificate so delivered to the Lessee shall constitute evidence of such costs and losses.  This covenant shall survive the termination of this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents and the payment of the Loans, Purchased Interests, Lessor Amounts and all other amounts payable under the Operative Documents.
provided, however
prima facie
SECTION 13.11. .  If, after the date of this Participation Agreement, any Affected Party determines that (i) any Change of Law affects the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Affected Party or any Person controlling such Lender (a ) and (ii) the amount of capital maintained by such Affected Party or such Person that is attributable to or based upon the Loans, Purchased Interests or Lessor Amounts, the Commitments or this Participation Agreement or any other Operative Document must be increased as a result of such Capital Adequacy Requirement (taking into account such Affected Party's or such Person's policies with respect to capital adequacy), the Lessee shall pay to such Affected Party or such Person, within five (5) Business Days after demand of such Affected Party, such amounts as such Affected Party or such Person shall determine are necessary to compensate such Affected Party or such Person for the increased costs to such Affected Party or such Person of such increased capital; , that the Lessee shall have no obligation to make any payment to any demanding party under this Section 13.11 on account of any such increased costs unless the Lessee receives notice of such increased costs from the demanding party within six (6) months after they are incurred or realized.  A certificate setting forth in reasonable detail the amount of such increased costs, submitted by any Affected Party to the Lessee shall constitute evidence of such costs.  The obligations of the Lessee under this Section 13.11 shall survive the termination of this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents and the payment of the Loans, Purchased Interests, Lessor Amounts and all other amounts payable under the Operative Documents.
  Capital Requirements
"Capital Adequacy Requirement"
provided, however
prima facie
54
SECTION 13.12. .  Any Participant that becomes aware of (i) any Change of Law that will make it unlawful or impossible for such Participant to make or maintain any Loan, Purchased Interest or Lessor Amount or (ii) any Change of Law or other event or condition that will obligate the Lessee to pay any amount pursuant to Section 13.9 or Section 13.11 shall notify the Lessee and the Administrative Agent thereof as promptly as practical.  If any Participant has given notice of any such Change of Law or other event or condition and thereafter becomes aware that such Change of Law or other event or condition has ceased to exist, such Participant shall notify the Lessee and the Administrative Agent thereof as promptly as practical.  Each Participant affected by any Change of Law that makes it unlawful or impossible for such Participant to make or maintain any Loan, Purchased Interests or Lessor Amount or to which the Lessee is obligated to pay any amount pursuant to Section 13.9 or Section 13.11 shall use reasonable commercial efforts (including changing the jurisdiction of its Applicable Funding Office) to avoid the effect of such Change of Law or to avoid or materially reduce any amounts which the Lessee is obligated to pay pursuant to Section 13.9 or Section 13.11 if, in the reasonable opinion of such Participant, such efforts would not be disadvantageous to such Participant or contrary to such Participant's normal practices.
  Mitigation
SECTION 13.13. .
  Taxes on Payments
(a)           .
Payments Free of Taxes
(i)            All payments made by the Lessee under this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents shall be made free and clear of, and without deduction or withholding for or on account of, any present or future income (but excluding those Taxes described in clause (i) and (ii) of the definition of Impositions), excise, stamp, transfer or franchise taxes and other taxes, fees, duties, withholdings or other charges of any nature whatsoever (including interest and penalties) now or hereafter imposed (the ) by any Governmental Authority or taxing authority domestic or foreign (the ), whether or not such Withholding Taxes were correctly or legally asserted.  If any Withholding Taxes are required to be withheld or deducted from any amounts payable to, or for the benefit of, any Tax Indemnitee or any Affiliate thereof under this Participation Agreement or the other Operative Documents, the amounts so payable to such Tax Indemnitee shall be increased to the extent necessary to yield on an After Tax Basis such amounts payable under this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents at the rates or in the amounts specified in this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents.  Whenever any Withholding Taxes are payable by the Lessee with respect to any payment to or for the account of a particular Tax Indemnitee, as promptly as possible thereafter, the Lessee shall send to such Tax Indemnitee a certified copy of an original official receipt received by the Lessee showing payment thereof.  If the Lessee fails to pay any Withholding Taxes when due to the appropriate taxing authority or fails to remit to the Tax Indemnitee required receipts or other required documentary evidence, the Lessee shall indemnify the Tax Indemnitee for any obligations that may become payable by the Tax Indemnitee as a result of any such failure.
"Withholding Taxes"
"Taxing Authority"
(ii)           All payments made by the Lessor under this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents to any other Tax Indemnitee shall be
55
made net of any deduction or withholding for Withholding Taxes.  If any Withholding Taxes are required to be withheld or deducted from any amounts payable by the Lessor to, or for the benefit of, any other Tax Indemnitee under this Participation Agreement or any other Operative Document, then the Lessee shall indemnify and pay such Tax Indemnitee on an After Tax Basis an amount necessary to yield such Tax Indemnitee (after payment of all Withholding Taxes) such amounts payable under this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents at the rates or in the amounts specified in this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents.
(iii)          Moreover, if any Taxes (the ) in the nature of Withholding Taxes are directly asserted by any Taxing Authority against any of the Participants with respect to any payment received by such Participant, such Participant may pay such Taxes and the Lessee will pay to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of such Participant, as Supplemental Rent, within fifteen (15) Business Days after receipt of a written demand therefor accompanied by a written statement describing in reasonable detail the amount so payable from such Participant such additional amounts (including any interest, reasonable costs or expenses and any penalties incurred in connection therewith) as are necessary in order that on a fully After Tax Basis the net amount received by such Person after the payment of such Indirect Withholding Taxes (including any Taxes on such additional amount) shall equal the amount such Person would have received had such Indirect Withholding Taxes not been asserted interest on such additional amounts at the Base Rate, calculated (on the basis of actual days elapsed in a year of 360 days) from the date of payment of such Indirect Withholding Taxes by such Purchaser to the date of payment of such additional amounts by the Lessee.  If the Lessee fails to pay any such Indirect Withholding Taxes as and when due to the appropriate Taxing Authority or fails to remit to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the relevant Participant the required receipts or other required documentary evidence, then the Lessee shall indemnify such Participant for any incremental Taxes (whether or not constituting Withholding Taxes), interest, penalties and reasonable expenses that may become payable by such Participant as a result of any such failure.
"Indirect Withholding Taxes"
plus
(iv)          The obligations of the Lessee under this Section 13.13(a) shall survive the termination of this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents and the payment of the Loans, Purchased Interests, Lessor Amounts and all other amounts payable under the Operative Documents.
(b)           .  On or prior to the date of the initial Advance or, if such date does not occur within thirty (30) days after the date of this Participation Agreement, by the end of such 30-day period, each Participant that is not organized under the laws of the United States of America or a state or political subdivision thereof shall deliver to the Lessee and the Administrative Agent two duly completed copies of United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI (or successor applicable form), as the case may be, certifying in each case that such Participant is entitled to receive payments under this Participation Agreement without deduction or withholding or with reduced deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes.  Each such Participant further agrees (i) promptly to notify the Lessee and the Administrative Agent of any change of circumstances that would prevent such Participant from receiving payments hereunder without any deduction or
Withholding Exemption Certificates
56
withholding or with reduced deduction or withholding of such taxes as indicated on the most recent such certificate or other form previously delivered by such Participant and (ii) if such Participant has not so notified the Lessee and the Administrative Agent of any change of circumstances which would prevent such Participant from receiving payments hereunder without any deduction or withholding or with reduced deduction or withholding of taxes as indicated on the most recent such certificate or other form previously delivered by such Participant, then on or before the date that any certificate or other form delivered by such Participant under this Section 13.13(b) expires or becomes obsolete or after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the most recent such certificate or form previously delivered by such Participant, to deliver to the Lessee and the Administrative Agent a new certificate or form, certifying that such Participant is entitled to receive payments under the Operative Documents without deduction or withholding or with reduced deduction or withholding of such taxes. If any Participant fails to provide to the Lessee or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section 13.13(b) (or, in the case of any Person that becomes a Participant through an assignment by another Participant, pursuant to Section 12.1) any certificates or other evidence required by such provision to establish that such Participant is, at the time it becomes a Participant hereunder, entitled to receive payments under the Operative Documents without deduction or withholding or with reduced deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes, such Participant shall not be entitled to any indemnification under Section 13.13(a) for any withholding taxes to the extent imposed on such Participant primarily as a result of such failure.
(c)           .  If the Administrative Agent or any Participant claims any additional amounts to be payable to it pursuant to this Section 13.13, such Person shall use reasonable commercial efforts to file any certificate or document requested in writing by the Lessee (including copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN (or successor forms)) reflecting a reduced rate of withholding or to change the jurisdiction of its Applicable Funding Office if the making of such a filing or such change in the jurisdiction of its Applicable Funding Office would avoid the need for or materially reduce the amount of any such additional amounts which may thereafter accrue and if, in the sole opinion of such Person, in the case of a change in the jurisdiction of its Applicable Funding Office, such change would not be disadvantageous to such Person or otherwise contrary to such Person's normal banking practices.
Mitigation
(d)           .  Nothing contained in this Section 13.13 shall require the Administrative Agent or any Participant (or any other Person) to make available any of its Tax returns (or any other information relating to its Taxes, which it deems to be confidential).
Tax Returns
SECTION 13.14. .  The obligations of the Lessee under this Article XIII shall survive the termination of this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents and the payment of the Loans, Purchased Interests, Lessor Amounts and all other amounts payable under the Operative Documents.
  Survival
ARTICLE XIV PAYMENT OF CERTAIN EXPENSES
SECTION 14.1.   .
Payment of Costs and Expenses
57
(a)           The Lessee shall pay, or cause to be paid, from time to time all Transaction Expenses in respect of the Closing Date.
(b)           The Lessee shall pay or cause to be paid when due the Fees described in Section 4.7.  In addition, the Lessee shall pay or cause to be paid, on demand, (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Structuring Agent, the Administrative Agent, and the Participants (including reasonable attorneys' fees and legal expenses) incurred in connection with this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents, (ii) all costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and legal expenses) incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Participant in entering into any future amendments or supplements with respect to any of the Operative Documents, whether or not such amendments or supplements are ultimately entered into, or giving of waivers of consents hereto or thereto, (iii) all costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and legal expenses) incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Participant in connection with any purchase of the Property by the Lessee, respectively, or any other Person in connection with the purchase of the Property by the Lessee or any other Person pursuant to Articles XVIII and XIX of the Lease and (iv) all costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and legal expenses) incurred by any of the other parties hereto in respect of (A) the enforcement of any of their rights or remedies against the Lessee under any of the Operative Documents or (B) the negotiation of any restructuring or with the Lessee, whether or not consummated, of any obligations of the Lessee under the Operative Documents.
"work-out"
SECTION 14.2. .  The Lessee shall pay during the Lease Term, from the proceeds of the Advance or otherwise any brokers' fees and any and all stamp, transfer and other similar Taxes, fees and excises, if any, including any interest and penalties, which are payable in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents.
  Brokers' Fees and Stamp Taxes
ARTICLE XV
THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT
SECTION 15.1.   Each Participant hereby irrevocably designates and appoints the Administrative Agent as the agent of such Participant under this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents, and each such Participant irrevocably authorizes the Administrative Agent, in such capacity, to take such action on its behalf under the provisions of this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents and to exercise such powers and perform such duties as are expressly delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms of this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents, together with such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary elsewhere in this Participation Agreement, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or responsibilities, except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Operative Documents, or any fiduciary relationship with any Participant or any other party to the Operative Documents, and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into this Participation Agreement or any other Operative Document or otherwise exist against the Administrative Agent.
  Appointment.
58
SECTION 15.2. .  The Administrative Agent may execute any of its duties under this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents by or through agents or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to advice of counsel concerning all matters pertaining to such duties.  The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of its agents or attorneys-in-fact selected by it with reasonable care.
  Delegation of Duties
SECTION 15.3. .  Neither the Administrative Agent (in its capacity as such) nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates shall be (a) liable for any action lawfully taken or omitted to be taken by it or such Person under or in connection with this Participation Agreement or any other Operative Document, except for its or such Person's own willful misconduct or gross negligence (or negligence in the handling of funds) or (b) responsible in any manner to any of the Participants or any other party to the Operative Documents for any recitals, statements, representations or warranties made by any Party or the Lessor or any officer of any Party or the Lessor contained in this Participation Agreement or any other Operative Document or in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by the Administrative Agent under or in connection with, this Participation Agreement or any other Operative Document, or for the value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Participation Agreement or any other Operative Document or for any failure of any Party or the Lessor to perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder.  The Administrative Agent shall not be under any obligation to any Participant or any other party to the Operative Documents to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or performance of any of the agreements contained in, or conditions of, this Participation Agreement or any other Operative Document, or to inspect the properties, books or records of any Party.
  Exculpatory Provisions
SECTION 15.4. .  The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any Note, Certificate, writing, resolution, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, facsimile message, statement, order or other document or other written communication believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons and upon advice and statements of legal counsel (including, without limitation, counsel to the Lessee), independent accountants and other experts selected by the Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent may deem and treat the payee of any Note or the holder of any Certificate as the owner thereof for all purposes unless a written notice of assignment, negotiation or transfer thereof shall have been delivered to the Administrative Agent in accordance with Section 12.1 of the Participation Agreement.  The Administrative Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under this Participation Agreement or any other Operative Document unless it shall first receive the advice or concurrence of the Required Participants, or it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the applicable Participants against any and all liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action.  The Administrative Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, under this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents in accordance with a request of the Required Participants, and such request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the Participants and all future holders of the applicable Participations (including their respective successors and assigns).
  Reliance by Administrative Agent
59
SECTION 15.5.   .  The Administrative Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Lease Default or Lease Event of Default unless the Administrative Agent has received notice from any Participant or the Lessor referring to this Participation Agreement or any other Operative Document, describing such Lease Default or Lease Event of Default and stating that such notice is a   In the event that the Administrative Agent receives such a notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly give notice thereof to the Participants, the Lessor and the Lessee.  The Administrative Agent shall take such action with respect to such Lease Default or Lease Event of Default as shall be directed by the Required Participants; , that unless and until the Administrative Agent shall have received such directions, the Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such default or event of default as it shall deem advisable in the best interests of the Participants.
Notice of Default
"notice of default."
provided, however
SECTION 15.6. .  Each Participant expressly acknowledges that neither the Administrative Agent, nor the Structuring Agent nor any of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates, has made any representations or warranties to it and that no act by the Administrative Agent or the Structuring Agent hereinafter taken, including any review of the affairs of the Lessee or the Lessor, shall be deemed to constitute any representation or warranty by the Administrative Agent or the Structuring Agent to any Participant.  Each Participant represents to the Administrative Agent and the Structuring Agent that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, the Structuring Agent or the Lessor, and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Lessee and the Lessor and made its own decision to enter into this Participation Agreement.  Each Participant also represents that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, the Structuring Agent or any other Participant, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under this Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents, and to make such investigation as it deems necessary to inform itself as to the business, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Lessee and the Lessor.  Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly required to be furnished to the Participants by the Administrative Agent hereunder, neither the Administrative Agent nor the Structuring Agent shall have any duty or responsibility to provide any Participant with any credit or other information concerning the business, operations, property, condition (financial or otherwise), prospects or creditworthiness of the Lessee or the Lessor which may come into the possession of the Administrative Agent, the Structuring Agent or any of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates.
  Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Participants
SECTION 15.7. .  The Administrative Agent agrees that it will be entitled to indemnification with respect to the Operative Documents and the transactions contemplated thereby solely from the Lessee and as contemplated by Article XIII hereof.
  Indemnification
SECTION 15.8. Each Participant acknowledges that KeyBank National Association is acting as the Administrative Agent hereunder.  KeyBank National Association and its Affiliates may make Participations to, issue
  Administrative Agent in Its Individual Capacity. 
60
letters of credit for the account of, accept deposits from, acquire equity interests in and generally engage in any kind of banking, trust, financial advisory, underwriting or other business with the Lessee, the Lessor and their respective Affiliates as though it was not the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Operative Documents and without notice to or consent of the Participants.  Each Participant acknowledges that, pursuant to such activities, KeyBank National Association or its Affiliates may receive information regarding the Lessee, the Lessor or their respective Affiliates (including information that may be subject to confidentiality obligations in favor of the Lessee, the Lessor or such Affiliates) and acknowledges that such Persons shall be under no obligation to provide such information to them.
SECTION 15.9. .  The Administrative Agent may resign as the Administrative Agent upon twenty (20) Business Days' notice to the Participants and the Lessee , that no such resignation shall take effect until the appointment, acceptance and qualification of a successor Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent may be removed for cause as the Administrative Agent upon twenty (20) Business Days' notice to the Administrative Agent and the Lessee from the Required Participants, which notice shall specify the conduct constituting the cause for removal.  The Required Participants shall appoint from among the Participants a successor Administrative Agent for the Participants subject to prior approval by the Lessee (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), whereupon such successor agent shall succeed to the rights, powers and duties of the Administrative Agent, and the term shall include such successor agent effective upon its appointment, and the resigning or removed Administrative Agent's rights, powers and duties as the Administrative Agent shall be terminated, without any other or further act or deed on the part of such former Administrative Agent or any of the parties to this Participation Agreement.  After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation or removal hereunder as the Administrative Agent, the provisions of this Article XV shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under the Operative Documents.  In the event of the resignation, or removal, of the Administrative Agent if no successor shall have been appointed and qualified within thirty (30) days, the resigning Administrative Agent or any Lender may petition a court of competent jurisdiction to appoint a successor.
  Successor Administrative Agent
provided
"Administrative Agent"
SECTION 15.10. .  The Administrative Agent shall at all times have a combined capital and surplus of at least $100,000,000 (or a combined capital and surplus in excess of $50,000,000 and the obligations of which, whether or not in existence or hereafter incurred, are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States, any state or territory thereof or the District of Columbia that has a combined capital and surplus of at least $100,000,000).  If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to requirements of Federal, State, Territorial or District of Columbia supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section 15.10, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of conditions so published.  The Administrative Agent shall not be an Affiliate of the Lessee.
  Eligibility of the Administrative Agent
61
ARTICLE XVI
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 16.1. .  The representations, warranties, covenants, indemnities and agreements of the parties provided for in the Operative Documents, and the parties' obligations under any and all thereof, shall survive the execution and delivery of this Participation Agreement, the transfer of any or all of the Property to the Lessee, the Lessor or any other Person, the construction of any Improvements, any disposition of any interest of the Lessor or any Participant in the Property or any Improvements and the payment of the Obligations and any disposition thereof and shall be and continue in effect notwithstanding any investigation made by any party and the fact that any party may waive compliance with any of the other terms, provisions or conditions of any of the Operative Documents.  Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein or in the other Operative Documents, the indemnities of the parties provided for in the Operative Documents shall survive the expiration or termination of the Operative Documents.
  Survival of Agreements
SECTION 16.2. .  Each of the parties hereto represents to the others that it has not retained or employed any broker, finder or financial adviser to act on its behalf in connection with this Participation Agreement or the transactions contemplated herein or in the other Operative Documents, nor has it authorized any broker, finder or financial adviser retained or employed by any other Person so to act.  Any party who is in breach of this representation shall indemnify and hold the other parties harmless from and against any liability arising out of such breach of this representation.
  No Broker, etc
SECTION 16.3. .  Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, all notices, consents, directions, approvals, instructions, requests and other communications required or permitted by the terms hereof to be given to any Person shall be given in writing by United States mail, by nationally recognized courier service and any such notice shall become effective five (5) Business Days after being deposited in the mails, certified or registered return receipt requested with appropriate postage prepaid or one (1) Business Day after delivery to a nationally recognized courier service specifying overnight delivery and shall be directed to the address of such Person as indicated on .  From time to time any party may designate a new address for purposes of notice hereunder by written notice to each of the other parties hereto in accordance with this Section 16.3.
  Notices
Schedule II
SECTION 16.4. .  This Participation Agreement may be executed by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.  Delivery of an executed counterpart hereof by facsimile or other electronic means shall be equally effective as delivery of an originally executed counterpart.
  Counterparts
SECTION 16.5. .
  Amendments
(a)           The provisions of this Participation Agreement may, subject to the provisions of clause (b) below, from time to time be amended, modified or waived, , that such amendment, modification or waiver is in writing and consented to by the Lessee, the Lessor, and, subject to the limitations of Section 16.16 hereof, the Required Lenders and the Required Purchasers.
provided, however
62
(b)           Neither any Operative Document nor any of the terms thereof may be terminated (except upon payment in full of the Property Cost and accrued Basic Rent and all other amounts due and owing by the Lessee under the Operative Documents, or effective exercise and consummation of the Remarketing Option in accordance with Article XX of the Lease and payment in full of all amounts due in accordance therewith), amended, supplemented, waived or modified without the written agreement or consent of the Required Participants (regardless of whether the Lenders and the Lessor are parties thereto); r, that:
provided, howeve
(i)            no such termination, amendment, supplement, waiver or modification shall without written agreement or consent of each Participant (A) modify any of the provisions of this Section 16.5 or Section 16.16, (B) change the definition of (C) modify or waive any requirement under any Operative Document that any particular action be taken by all Participants, (D) extend the Expiration Date or Scheduled Lease Term Termination Date (except as expressly provided for herein), (E) amend, modify, waive or supplement any of the provisions of Article VII of this Participation Agreement, (F) reduce, modify, amend or waive any Fees, other fees or indemnities in favor of any Participant, including without limitation amounts payable pursuant to Section 4.7 and Article XIII (except that any Person may consent to any reduction, modification, amendment or waiver of any Fee or other fee or indemnity payable to it), (G) modify, postpone, reduce or forgive, in whole or in part, any payment of Rent (other than pursuant to the terms of any Operative Document), any Loan, Purchased Interests or Lessor Amount, Property Cost, Maximum Recourse Amount, Purchase Price, amounts due pursuant to Article XX of the Lease, interest, Return or Yield or, subject to clause (D) above, any other amount payable under the Lease or this Participation Agreement, (H) modify the definition or method of calculation of Rent (other than pursuant to the terms of any Operative Document), Loans, Purchased Interests or Lessor Amounts, Property Cost, Maximum Recourse Amount, Fees, Shortfall Amount, Participant Balance or any other definition which would affect the amounts to be advanced or which are payable under the Operative Documents, (I) release the Lessee from its Obligations under the Operative Documents or permit any assignment of the Lease by the Lessee releasing the Lessee from its Obligations under the Operative Documents or changing the absolute and unconditional character of such obligations, in each case, except as expressly permitted by the Operative Documents, or (J) except as expressly permitted or required under the Operative Documents, release the Property from the Lien of the Lessor Mortgage or release or terminate any UCC Financing Statements covering the Property or any other Collateral;
"Required Participants,"
(ii)           no such termination, amendment, supplement, waiver or modification shall, without the written agreement or consent of each Lender (but subject at all times to the terms of Section 16.16 hereof), (A) change the definition of (B) modify or waive any requirement under any Operative Document that any particular action be taken by all Lenders, or (C) extend the Expiration Date (except as expressly provided for herein);
"Required Lenders,"
63
(iii)          no such termination, amendment, supplement, waiver or modification shall, without the written agreement or consent of each Purchaser (but subject at all times to the terms of Section 16.16 hereof), (A) change the definition of (B) modify or waive any requirement under any Operative Document that any particular action be taken by all Purchasers, or (C) extend the Expiration Date (except as expressly provided for herein);
"Required Purchasers,"
(iv)          no such termination, amendment, supplement, waiver or modification shall, without written agreement or consent of the Lessor, (A) modify or waive any requirement under any Operative Document that any particular action be taken by or consented to by the Lessor, (B) extend the Scheduled Lease Term Termination Date (except as expressly provided for herein), or (C) amend, modify, waive or supplement the Loan Agreement, the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Lease, or the Ground Lease (it being understood that the Lessor may condition any such written agreement or consent on the receipt of the written consent of the Ground Lessor to such termination, amendment, supplement, waiver or modification);
(v)           no such termination, amendment, supplement, waiver or modification that would increase the obligations of the Lessee thereunder or deprive the Lessee of any of its rights thereunder or alter the rights of the Lessee to its detriment shall be effective against the Lessee without the written agreement or consent of the Lessee; and
(vi)          no such termination, amendment, supplement, waiver or modification shall be made to any provision of Article XV without the written agreement or consent of the Administrative Agent.
SECTION 16.6.   The Table of Contents and headings of the various Articles and Sections of this Participation Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not modify, define, expand or limit any of the terms or provisions hereof.
  Headings, etc.
SECTION 16.7.   Except as expressly provided herein, none of the provisions of this Participation Agreement is intended for the benefit of any Person except the parties hereto.  The Lessee shall not assign or transfer any of its rights or obligations under the Operative Documents except in accordance with the terms and conditions thereof.
  Parties in Interest.
SECTION 16.8. .  THIS PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER OPERATIVE DOCUMENTS AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER AND THEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
  GOVERNING LAW
SECTION 16.9. .  Any provision of this Participation Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
  Severability
64
SECTION 16.10. .
  Liability Limited
(a)           The parties hereto agree that except as specifically set forth herein or in any other Operative Document, the Lessor shall have no personal liability whatsoever to any other Participant, the Lessee or their respective successors and assigns for any claim or obligation based on or in respect hereof or any of the other Operative Documents (including, without limitation, the repayment of the Loans) or arising in any way from the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby and recourse, if any, shall be solely had against the Lessor's interest in the Property or from payments (other than payments due to the Lessor with respect to indemnities, reimbursement of expenses or fees, in each case payable to the Lessor for its own account) received from the Lessee (it being acknowledged and agreed by each party hereto that all such personal liability of the Lessor is expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as consideration for, the execution and delivery of the Operative Documents by the Lessor); , that the Lessor shall be liable in its individual capacity (i) for its own willful misconduct or gross negligence, (ii) for breach of its representations set forth in Section 8.3, (iii) for any Lessor Lien attributable to it and (iv) for any Tax based on or measured by any fees, commission or compensation received by it for acting as the Lessor as contemplated by the Operative Documents.  It is understood and agreed that the Lessor shall have no personal liability under any of the Operative Documents as a result of acting pursuant to and consistent with any of the Operative Documents.
provided, however
(b)           No Participant shall have any obligation to the other Participant or to the Lessee with respect to transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents, except those obligations of such Participant expressly set forth in the Operative Documents or except as set forth in the instruments delivered in connection therewith, and no Participant shall be liable for performance by any other party hereto of such other party's obligations under the Operative Documents except as otherwise so set forth.
(c)           The obligations of the parties under this Section 16.10 shall survive the termination of this Participation Agreement.
SECTION 16.11. .  The parties hereto shall promptly cause to be taken, executed, acknowledged or delivered, at the sole expense of the Lessee, all such further acts, conveyances, documents and assurances as the other parties may from time to time reasonably request in order to carry out and preserve the security interests and liens (and the priority thereof) intended to be created pursuant to this Participation Agreement, the other Operative Documents, and the transactions thereunder (including, without limitation, the preparation, execution and filing of any and all Uniform Commercial Code financing statements and other filings or registrations which the parties hereto may from time to time request to be filed or effected).  The Lessee, at its own expense and without need of any prior request from any other party, shall take such action as may be necessary (including any action specified in the preceding sentence), or as so requested, in order to maintain and protect all security interests provided for hereunder or under any other Operative Document.
  Further Assurances
SECTION 16.12. .  EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY SUBMITS TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA FOR PURPOSES
  SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
65
OF ALL LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE OTHER OPERATIVE DOCUMENTS OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY.  EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT AND ANY CLAIM THAT ANY SUCH PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT HAS BEEN BROUGHT IN AN INCONVENIENT FORUM.
SECTION 16.13. .  Each Participant and the Administrative Agent shall, upon the occurrence of any Lease Event of Default, have the right to appropriate and, subject to Section 7.12 and Section 13.1 hereof, apply to the payment of the Lessee's obligations under the Lease as security for the payment of such obligations, any and all balances, credits, deposits, accounts or moneys of the Lessee then or thereafter maintained with such Participant or the Administrative Agent.  The rights of the Participants and the Administrative Agent under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff under applicable law or otherwise) which such Person may have.
  Setoff
SECTION 16.14. .  THE PARTIES HERETO VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE ANY RIGHTS THEY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION BASED HEREON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER, OR IN CONNECTION WITH, THIS PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER OPERATIVE DOCUMENT, OR ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS (WHETHER VERBAL OR WRITTEN) OR ACTIONS OF ANY OF THE PARTIES HERETO.  THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY AGREE THAT THEY WILL NOT SEEK TO CONSOLIDATE ANY SUCH LITIGATION WITH ANY OTHER LITIGATION IN WHICH A JURY TRIAL HAS NOT OR CANNOT BE WAIVED.  THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION 16.14 HAVE BEEN FULLY NEGOTIATED BY THE PARTIES HERETO AND SHALL BE SUBJECT TO NO EXCEPTIONS.  LESSEE ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT IT HAS RECEIVED FULL AND SUFFICIENT CONSIDERATION FOR THIS PROVISION (AND EACH OTHER PROVISION OF EACH OTHER OPERATIVE DOCUMENT TO WHICH IT IS A PARTY) AND THAT THIS PROVISION IS A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR EACH OF THE PARTICIPANTS ENTERING INTO THIS PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT AND EACH SUCH OTHER OPERATIVE DOCUMENT.
  WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
SECTION 16.15.   Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary in any of the Operative Documents, the following provisions shall apply with respect to the Purchased Interests:
  Special Provisions re Sales of Receivables.
warranties and covenants of the Lessor set forth in this Participation Agreement and each other Operative Document.  No obligation or liability to the Lessee on any Purchased Interest is intended to be assumed by the Purchaser hereunder, and any such assumption is expressly disclaimed.  The Lessor will not claim any ownership interest in the Purchased Interests and each Purchaser is assuming all risks of credit loss associated with the Purchased Interests.
(a)           All purchases hereunder (and under the Receivables Purchase Agreement) shall be made without recourse, but shall be made pursuant to, and in reliance upon, the representations,
66
(b)           It is the express intent of the parties hereto that the transfers of the Purchased Interests by the Lessor to the Purchasers, as contemplated by this Participation Agreement and the Receivables Purchase Agreement be, and be treated as, sales and not as loans secured by the Purchased Interests.  If, however, notwithstanding the intent of the parties, such transactions are deemed to be loans, Lessor hereby grants to the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of each Purchaser) a first priority security interest in all of such Lessor's right, title and interest in and to the Purchased Interests now existing and hereafter created by the Lessor, all Purchaser Basic Rent, all Supplemental Rent owing to any Purchaser and all amounts received with respect thereto, and all proceeds thereof, to secure all of such Lessor's obligations hereunder.
(c)           The Purchasers shall have no obligation to account for, to replace, to substitute or to return any Purchased Interest (or portion thereof) to the Lessor.  Subject to Applicable Law the Purchasers shall have the unrestricted right to further assign, transfer, deliver, hypothecate, subdivide or otherwise deal with the Purchased Interests on whatever terms such Purchaser shall determine.
(d)           Each sale made by the Lessor pursuant to this Participation Agreement and the Receivables Purchase Agreement shall constitute a valid sale, transfer, and assignment of Purchased Interests to the Purchasers, enforceable against creditors of, and purchasers from, the Lessor and each such sale shall have been made for (as such term is used under Section 548 of the Bankruptcy Code) and not for or on account of (as such term is used under Section 547 of the Bankruptcy Code) owed by the Lessor to any Purchaser; and this Participation Agreement constitutes, and each other Operative Document to be signed by the Lessor, when duly executed and delivered, will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Lessor, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity, regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
"reasonably equivalent value"
"antecedent debt"
(e)           The Lessor shall also maintain and implement administrative and operating procedures (including an ability to recreate records evidencing Purchased Interests and Lease in the event of the destruction of the originals thereof), and keep and maintain (or cause the Administrative Agent to keep and maintain) all documents, books, records and other information reasonably necessary or advisable for the identification and collection of all Purchased Interests.
(f)            The Lessor shall, at its expense, take, and shall cause to be taken, all action necessary or desirable in the reasonable determination of the Purchasers to establish and maintain a valid and enforceable ownership interest in the Purchased Interests with respect thereto, in favor of Purchaser, including taking such action to perfect, protect or more fully evidence the interest of the Purchaser as the Purchaser may reasonably request.
67
(g)           At its expense, the Lessor shall mark its records relating to both the Purchased Interests and the Lease, including with the following legend, or such other marking reasonably acceptable to the Purchasers evidencing that the ownership interests with regard to such Purchased Interests and the Lease have been sold in accordance with the Receivables Purchase Agreement: "AN UNDIVIDED, FRACTIONAL OWNERSHIP INTEREST IN THE RECEIVABLES DESCRIBED HEREIN HAVE BEEN SOLD BY SELCO SERVICE CORPORATION TO [NAME OF APPLICABLE PURCHASER(S)] PURSUANT TO A RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT, DATED AS OF MARCH 26, 2007, AS AMENDED, AMONG SELCO SERVICE CORPORATION, KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, AS ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, AS PURCHASER."
SECTION 16.16.   Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary in any of the Operative Documents, with respect to any Purchased Interests or Loans held by any Lessee Party, under no circumstances shall (a) such Lessee Party be entitled to offset rights as set forth in Section 7.12 hereof, and (b) such Lessee Party's Pro Rata Shares be used in the calculation of , or for purposes of directing remedies, inspection rights, receiving or approving information, granting waivers, consents, approvals or amendments at any time.  In addition to the foregoing, neither the Administrative Agent, the Lessor nor any other Participant shall have any fiduciary obligation to any Lessee Party at any time, it being expressly acknowledged and agreed that the Administrative Agent, the Lessor and each other Participant may deal with all matters arising under the Operative Documents as if no Lessee Party was a Participant.
  Special Provisions re Sales of Receivables to Lessee Parties.
"Required Lenders"
"Required Purchasers"
"Required Participants"
SECTION 16.17.   Each of the Administrative Agent and the Participants agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Operative Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Operative Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (g) with the consent of the Lessee, or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Participant or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Lessee.
Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality.
For purposes of this Section, "Information" means all information received from the Lessee or any Subsidiary relating to the Lessee or any Subsidiary or any of their respective
68
businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Participant on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Lessee or any Subsidiary, provided that, in the case of information received from the Lessee or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential.  Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Participants acknowledges that (A) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Lessee or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (B) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information, and (C) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
[THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE HAS BEEN INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]
69
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Participation Agreement to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.
 
70
 
 
71
EXECUTION
 
TO PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT
APPENDIX A
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION
A.            .  In each Operative Document, unless a clear contrary intention appears:
Interpretation
(i)            the singular number includes the plural number and vice versa;
(ii)           reference to any Person includes such Person's successors and assigns but, if applicable, only if such successors and assigns are permitted by the Operative Documents, and reference to a Person in a particular capacity excludes such Person in any other capacity or individually;
(iii)          reference to any gender includes each other gender;
(iv)          reference to any agreement (including any Operative Document or any attachment or schedule thereto), document or instrument means such agreement (or attachment or schedule thereto), document or instrument as amended or modified and in effect from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof and, if applicable, the terms of the other Operative Documents; and reference to any promissory note includes any promissory note which is an extension or renewal thereof or a substitute or replacement therefor;
(v)           reference to any Applicable Law means such Applicable Law as amended, modified, codified, replaced or reenacted, in whole or in part, and in effect from time to time, including rules and regulations promulgated thereunder and reference to any section or other provision of any Applicable Law means that provision of such Applicable Law from time to time in effect and constituting the substantive amendment, modification, codification, replacement or reenactment of such section or other provision;
(vi)          reference in any Operative Document to any Article, Section, Appendix, Schedule or Exhibit means such Article or Section thereof or Appendix, Schedule or Exhibit thereto;
(vii)         and words of similar import shall be deemed references to an Operative Document as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other provision thereof;
"hereunder,"
"hereof,"
"hereto"
A-1
(viii)        (and with correlative meaning ) means including without limiting the generality of any description preceding such term; and
"including"
"include"
(ix)           with respect to any rights and obligations of the parties under the Operative Documents, all such rights and obligations shall be construed to the extent permitted by Applicable Law.
B.            .  For purposes of computation of periods of time under the Operative Documents, the word means and the words and each mean .
Computation of Time Periods
"from"
"from and including"
"to"
"until"
"to but excluding"
C.              All terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be interpreted, all accounting determinations under the Operative Documents shall be made, and all financial statements required to be delivered under the Operative Documents shall be prepared, as set forth in Section 4.10 of the Participation Agreement.
Accounting Terms and Determinations.
D.              If there is any conflict between any Operative Documents, such Operative Document shall be interpreted and construed, if possible, so as to avoid or minimize such conflict but, to the extent (and only to the extent) of such conflict, the Participation Agreement shall prevail and control.
Conflict in Operative Documents.
E.             .  The Operative Documents were negotiated by the parties with the benefit of legal representation and any rule of construction or interpretation otherwise requiring the Operative Document to be construed or interpreted against any party shall not apply to any construction or interpretation hereof or thereof.
Legal Representation of the Parties
F.             .  Unless a clear contrary intention appears, terms defined herein have the respective indicated meanings when used in each Operative Document.
Defined Terms
means, after the occurrence of any Casualty or Condemnation affecting the Property, that the Property has been restored to substantially its condition as it existed immediately prior to the applicable Casualty or Condemnation.
"Acceptable Condition"
means the account established with the Administrative Agent pursuant to which all payments by the Lessee under the Operative Documents shall be made.  The Account shall be specified on Schedule II to the Participation Agreement.
"Account"
means (a) any Person that becomes a Subsidiary of the Lessee as a result of an Acquisition or (b) any business entity or division thereof, all or substantially all of the assets and business of which are acquired by a Subsidiary of the Lessee pursuant to an Acquisition.
"Acquired Entity"
means any transaction or series of related transactions for the purpose of or resulting, directly or indirectly, in (a) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of a Person, or of any business or division of a Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary), (b) the acquisition of in excess of 50% of the capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests or equity of any Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary), or otherwise causing
"Acquisition"
A-2
any Person to become a Subsidiary, or (c) a merger or consolidation or any other combination with another Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary).
means, with respect to any information or event, that a Responsible Officer of the Lessee has, or with the exercise of reasonable care and diligence would have, actual knowledge of such information or event.
"Actual Knowledge"
means KeyBank National Association, as Administrative Agent for the Participants, together with its successors and assigns (including any successor administrative agent pursuant to Section 15.9 of the Participation Agreement).
"Administrative Agent"
means Adobe Ventures, L.P., Adobe Ventures II, L.P., Adobe Ventures III, L.P., Adobe Ventures IV, L.P. and any other venture capital partnership in which all of the limited partners are the Lessee, its Subsidiaries, its Affiliates or employees of the Lessee or its Subsidiaries, , that at the time a venture capital investment is made in any Person, such Person either operates or is expected to operate in an industry related to the business operations of the Lessee or its Subsidiaries (including Persons which possess or may possess technologies, sales and services capabilities, operations or content related to any product of the Lessee or its Subsidiaries) or has been identified by the Lessee as a candidate for a strategic relationship with the Lessee or its Subsidiaries.
"Adobe VC Partnerships"
provided
means an advance of funds by the Lessor (including Lessor Amounts and any sums advanced to Lessor by Lenders or Purchasers) pursuant to Article III of the Participation Agreement.
"Advance"
means any Participant.
"Affected Party"
means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
"Affiliate"
means, with respect to any payment to be received or accrued by a Person (), the sum of (a) the amount of such base payment (b) a further payment, if necessary, to such Person such that after reduction for all Taxes imposed on such Person as a result of the receipt or accrual of both the base payment and such further payments, such Person receives a net amount equal to the base payment otherwise required to be made.
"After Tax Basis"
"base payment"
plus
means $103,600,000.
"Aggregate Commitment Amount"
means, with respect to any Participant, (a) in the case of its Base Rate Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts, its Domestic Funding Office, and (b) in the case of its LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts, its Euro-Dollar Funding Office.
"Applicable Funding Office"
A-3
means, with respect to any Purchased Interests having a Return Rate determined by reference to the BBA LIBO Rate, the percentage per annum set forth in the table below based on the Pricing Level in effect on such date:
"Applicable Capital Margin"
 
that if any Capital or Purchased Interests are held by a Lessee Party then the Applicable Capital Margin with respect to such Lessee Party is 0.25%.
Provided, however,
means all existing and future applicable laws, rules, regulations (including Environmental Laws), statutes, treaties, codes, ordinances, permits, certificates, orders and licenses of and interpretations by, any Governmental Authority, and applicable judgments, decrees, injunctions, writs, orders or like action of any court, administrative, judicial or quasi-judicial tribunal or agency of competent jurisdiction (including those pertaining to health, safety or the environment (including, without limitation, wetlands) and those pertaining to the zoning, construction, use or occupancy of the Property) or in each case affecting the Lessee, a Tax Indemnitee, an Indemnitee, the Property or any material interests in any other kind of property or asset, whether real, personal or mixed, or tangible or intangible, of the Lessee.
"Applicable Law"
means, with respect to any Loan having an Interest Rate determined by reference to the BBA LIBO Rate, the percentage per annum set forth in the table below based on the Pricing Level in effect on such date:
"Applicable Loan Margin"
 
means an appraisal of the Property by the Appraiser, which Appraisal complies in all material respects with all of the provisions of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, as amended, the rules and regulations adopted pursuant
"Appraisal"
A-4
thereto, and all other Applicable Law addressed to the Lessor and the Administrative Agent and which appraises the Fair Market Sales Value of the Property as of the Expiration Date (or such other date as Lessor and Administrative Agent shall agree).
means an appraiser (MAI) selected by the Lessor and the Administrative Agent.
"Appraiser"
means, with respect to the Land, (i) all agreements, easements, rights of way or use, rights of ingress or egress, privileges, appurtenances, tenements, hereditaments and other rights and benefits at any time belonging or pertaining to the Land or the Improvements thereon, including, without limitation, the use of any streets, ways, alleys, vaults or strips of land adjoining, abutting, adjacent or contiguous to the Land and (ii) all permits, licenses and rights, whether or not of record, appurtenant to the Land.
"Appurtenant Rights"
is defined in Section 2.1(a) of the Security and Assignment Agreement.
"Assigned Agreement"
means the Assignment of Lease and Rent and dated as of the date of the Participation Agreement, from the Lessor, as assignor, to the Administrative Agent, as assignee.
"Assignment of Lease and Rent"
means, on any date, (a) in respect of any capital lease of any Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, and (b) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease, net of amounts owing directly or indirectly to such Person.
"Attributable Indebtedness"
means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 1, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Company and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
"Audited Financial Statements"
means any officer of the Lessee designated as such in writing to the Administrative Agent by the Lessee.
"Authorized Officer"
means, with respect to the Lessee, a certificate signed by any Authorized Officer, which certificate shall certify as true and correct the subject matter being certified to in such certificate.
"Authorized Officer's Certificate"
means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum as shall be in effect from time to time which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the higher of (a) the rate of interest established by the Administrative Agent at its principal office, from time to time, as its prime rate, whether or not publicly announced, which interest rate may or may not be the lowest rate charged by it for commercial loans or other extensions of credit and (b) the sum of (i) the Federal Funds Effective Rate (ii)  of 1% per annum.
"Base Rate"
plus
A-5
means a Loan, Capital or Lessor Amount, as the case may be, accruing interest, Return or Yield at the Base Rate.
"Base Rate Loan(s)/Capital/Lessor Amount(s)"
means, as determined as of any Rent Payment Date, the amounts payable pursuant to Section 4.1 of the Participation Agreement.
"Basic Rent"
means, with respect to any Loan, Capital or Lessor Amount outstanding during the Lease Term:
"Basic Rent Period"
(i)            initially, the period commencing on the day the Lease Term begins and ending on the last Business Day of the next succeeding month; and
(ii)           thereafter, each period commencing on the day after the last day of the preceding Basic Rent Period applicable to such Loan, Capital or Lessor Amount and ending on the date occurring one (1) month thereafter.
The foregoing provisions relating to Basic Rent Periods are subject to the following:
(1)           if any Basic Rent Period would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day, such Basic Rent Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless the result of such extension would be to carry such Basic Rent Period into another calendar month in which event such Basic Rent Period shall end on the immediately preceding Business Day; and
(2)           any Basic Rent Period that would otherwise extend beyond the Expiration Date shall end on the Expiration Date.
means, with respect to any Basic Rent Period for any LIBOR Loan/Capital/Lessor Amount, a rate per annum equal to the quotient (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest 1/100 of one percent) of:
"BBA LIBO Rate"
(a)           the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest 1/100 of one percent) of the rates per annum appearing (i) on the British Bankers' Association internet web page (www.bba.org.uk/businesses/), or via (ii) Reuters (BBALIBORS), Bloomberg, Bridge Telerate (Page 3750), or any other information provider of the British Bankers' Association daily Libor rates on the second Business Day prior to the first day of such Basic Rent Period at or about 11:00 a.m. (London time) (for delivery on the first day of such Basic Rent Period) for a term comparable to such Basic Rent Period;
divided by
(b)           One the Reserve Requirement for such LIBOR Loan/Capital/Lessor Amount in effect from time to time.
minus
If, for any reason, the BBA LIBO Rate is not available from the aforementioned sources for any Basic Rent Period, the Administrative Agent shall determine the BBA LIBO Rate for such Basic Rent Period based upon the Reference Bank Rate.
A-6
means any amounts due and payable by the Lessee pursuant to Section 13.10 of the Participation Agreement.
"Break Costs"
means any day on which (a) commercial banks are not authorized or required to close in San Francisco, California or New York, New York and (b) if such Business Day is related to a LIBOR Loan/Capital/Lessor Amount, dealings in Dollar deposits are carried out in the London interbank market.
"Business Day"
means the amount paid to the Lessor in respect of the Purchased Interests by the Purchasers pursuant to the Participation Agreement and the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
"Capital"
is defined in Section 13.11 of the Participation Agreement.
"Capital Adequacy Requirement"
means any damage or destruction of all or any portion of the Property as a result of a fire, flood, earthquake or other casualty or catastrophe.
"Casualty"
is defined in Section 2.3 of the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
"Certificate"
is defined in Section 21.1 of the Lease.
"Certifying Party"
is defined in Section 13.7 of the Participation Agreement.
"Change of Law"
means any and all obligations, liabilities, losses, actions, suits, judgments, penalties, fines, claims, demands, settlements, costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable legal fees and expenses) of any nature whatsoever.
"Claims"
means the date, which date shall be a Business Day on which each of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 6.1 of the Participation Agreement have been satisfied or waived by the applicable parties set forth therein.
"Closing Date"
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and the rulings issued thereunder.  Section references to the Code are to the Code, as in effect at the Closing Date and any subsequent provisions of the Code, amendatory thereof, supplemental thereto or substituted therefor.
"Code"
is defined in Section 2.1 of the Security and Assignment Agreement.
"Collateral"
means a certificate substantially in the form of to the Participation Agreement.
"Compliance Certificate"
Exhibit D
means, with respect to the Property, any condemnation, requisition, confiscation, seizure or other taking or sale of the use, access, occupancy, easement rights or title to the Property or any part thereof, wholly or partially (temporarily or permanently), by or on account of any actual or threatened eminent domain proceeding or other taking of action by any Person having the power of eminent domain, including an action by a Governmental Authority to change the grade of, or widen the streets adjacent to, the Property or alter the pedestrian or
"Condemnation"
A-7
vehicular traffic flow to the Property so as to result in change in access to the Property (such that there is a material adverse effect on the operation of the Property), or by or on account of an eviction by paramount title or any transfer made in lieu of any such proceeding or action.  A shall be deemed to have occurred on the earliest of the dates that use, occupancy or title vests in the condemning authority.
"Condemnation"
means, for any period, for the Lessee and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to Consolidated Net Income for such period (a) the following to the extent deducted in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period, (ii) the provision for Federal, state, local and foreign income taxes payable by the Lessee and its Subsidiaries for such period, (iii) depreciation and amortization expense and (iv) expenses of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries reducing such Consolidated Net Income which do not represent a cash item in such period or any future period, and (b) the following to the extent included in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Federal, state, local and foreign income tax credits of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries for such period and (ii) all non-cash items increasing Consolidated Net Income for such period; , that solely for the purpose of the computations of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio, if there has occurred an Acquisition during the relevant period, Consolidated EBITDA shall be calculated, at the option of the Lessee on a basis in accordance with the SEC pro forma reporting rules under the Exchange Act, as if such Acquisition occurred on the first day of the applicable period.
"Consolidated EBITDA"
plus
minus
provided, however
pro forma
means, as of any date of determination, for the Lessee and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of all obligations, whether current or long-term, for borrowed money (including Obligations hereunder) and all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments, (b) all purchase money Indebtedness, (c) all direct obligations arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments, (d) all obligations in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business), (e) Attributable Indebtedness in respect of capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations, (f) without duplication, all Guarantees with respect to outstanding Indebtedness of the types specified in clauses (a) through (e) above of Persons other than the Lessee or any Subsidiary, and (g) all Indebtedness of the types referred to in clauses (a) through (f) above of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which the Lessee or a Subsidiary is a general partner or joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to the Lessee or such Subsidiary.
"Consolidated Funded Indebtedness"
means, for any period, for the Lessee and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) all interest, premium payments, debt discount, fees, charges and related expenses of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries in connection with borrowed money (including capitalized interest) or in connection with the deferred purchase price of assets, in each case to the extent treated as interest in accordance with GAAP, (b) the portion of rent expense of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries with respect to such period under capital leases that is treated as interest in accordance with GAAP, and (c) the portion of rent expense of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries with respect to such period constituting Synthetic
"Consolidated Interest Charges"
A-8
Lease Obligations to the extent such expenses would be treated as interest if such leases were capital leases under GAAP.
means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of such date to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the four (4) fiscal quarters most recently ended.
"Consolidated Leverage Ratio"
means, for any period, for the Lessee and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the net income of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries (excluding extraordinary gains and extraordinary losses) for that period.
"Consolidated Net Income"
means, as of any date of determination, for the Lessee and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, Shareholders' Equity on that date the Intangible Assets of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries on that date.
"Consolidated Tangible Net Worth"
minus
means amounts payable to the Administrative Agent or any Participant pursuant to Article XIII of the Participation Agreement.
"Contingent Payments"
means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
"Contractual Obligation"
means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.  and have meanings correlative thereto.
"Control"
"Controlling"
"Controlled"
means a quitclaim, grant or special warranty deed, as applicable, with respect to the real property comprising the Property, in conformity with Applicable Law and appropriate for recording with the applicable Governmental Authorities, conveying fee simple title to the transferee thereunder.
"Deed"
means, (a) with respect to any Loan, any interest on any Loan, Fees or any other amount (other than amounts described in clauses (b) or (c)), the Interest Rate (including any Applicable Loan Margin) then in effect for such Loan, two percent (2%) or, if no Interest Rate is applicable, whether in respect of interest or other amounts, then the Default Rate shall be the Base Rate the Applicable Loan Margin two percent (2%), (b) with respect to any Capital or Return, the Return Rate(including any Applicable Capital Margin) two percent (2%), and (c) with respect to any Lessor Amount or Yield, the Yield Rate two percent (2%).  In the event that the Default Rate collected by any Participant is in violation of any usury or similar law, then the Default Rate shall be reduced to the extent necessary to cause the Default Rate to comply with any usury or similar law.
"Default Rate"
plus
plus
plus
plus
plus
or means the sale, transfer, license, lease or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of any property by any Person, including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith.
"Disposition"
"Dispose"
A-9
and mean dollars in lawful currency of the United States of America.
"Dollars"
"$"
means, with respect to any Participant, (a) initially, its office designated as such on to the Participation Agreement (or, in the case of any such Participant that becomes a Participant by an assignment pursuant to Section 12.1 of the Participation Agreement, its office designated as such in the applicable assignment agreement) and (b) subsequently, such other office or offices as such Participant may designate to the Administrative Agent as the office at which such Participant's Base Rate Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts will thereafter be maintained and for the account of which all payments of (i) outstanding principal of and interest on (in the case of Loans), or (ii) outstanding Capital and Return on (in the case of Capital), or (iii) outstanding Lessor Amounts and Yield on (in the case of Lessor Amounts) such Participant's Base Rate Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts will thereafter be made.
"Domestic Funding Office"
Schedule II
means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
"Domestic Subsidiary"
means a corporation that is a wholly-owned Subsidiary, duly organized and existing under the law of any state of the United States or the laws of Ireland, Bermuda, Cayman Islands or the British Virgin Islands, the activities of which are limited by such Subsidiary's Organization Documents to those necessary to providing property insurance coverage solely to the Lessee and its Subsidiaries; (i) such Subsidiary at all times maintains adequate capital and solvency (as specified by law applicable to insurance providers organized under the law of such Subsidiary's jurisdiction of organization), and (ii) such Subsidiary is at all times duly licensed as an insurer under such law.
"Eligible Captive Insurance Subsidiary"
provided
is defined in Section 13.2(a) of the Participation Agreement.
"End of the Term Report"
means a Phase One environmental site assessment (the scope and performance of which meets or exceeds the then most current ASTM Standard Practice E1527 for Environmental Site Assessments:  Phase One Environmental Site Assessment Process) of the Property.
"Environmental Audit"
means the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 7401 .; the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C. Section 1251 .; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, 42 U.S.C. Section 6901 .; the Comprehensive Environment Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (including the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, ), 42 U.S.C. Section 9601 .; the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 2601 .; the Occupational Safety and Health Act, 29 U.S.C. Section 651; the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. Section 11001 .; the Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, 30 U.S.C. Section 801 the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 300 .; and all other Governmental Rules relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including all Governmental Rules pertaining to the reporting, licensing, permitting, transportation, storage, disposal, investigation or remediation of emissions, discharges, releases, or threatened releases of Hazardous Materials into the air, surface water, groundwater, or land, or relating to the
"Environmental Laws"
et seq
et seq
et seq
"CERCLA"
et seq
et seq
et seq
et seq.;
et seq
A-10
manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transportation or handling of Hazardous Materials.
means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Lessee or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
"Environmental Liability"
means, with respect to the Property, any activity, occurrence or condition that violates or results in non-compliance with any Environmental Law.
"Environmental Violation"
means all equipment, apparatus, furnishings, fittings and personal property of every kind and nature whatsoever purchased, leased or otherwise acquired by the Lessor and now or subsequently attached to, contained in or used or usable in any way in connection with any operation or letting of the Property, including but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all conveyor equipment, shelving, racking, sortation equipment, mobile material handling equipment, screens, awnings, shades, blinds, curtains, draperies, artwork, carpets, rugs, storm doors and windows, display cases, counters, furniture and furnishings, heating, electrical, switch gear, uninterrupted power supply equipment, mechanical equipment, lighting, switchboards, plumbing, ventilation, air conditioning and air-cooling apparatus, refrigerating and incinerating equipment, escalators, generators, elevators, loading and unloading equipment and systems, stoves, ranges, laundry equipment, cleaning systems (including window cleaning apparatus), telephones, communications systems (including satellite dishes and antennae), televisions, computers, sprinkler systems and other fire prevention and extinguishing apparatus and materials, security systems, motors, engines, machinery, pipes, pumps, tanks, conduits, appliances, fittings and fixtures of every kind and description.
"Equipment"
means, with respect to any Person, all of the shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and all of the other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are outstanding on any date of determination.
"Equity Interests"
means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
"ERISA"
means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Lessee within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
"ERISA Affiliate"
A-11
means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Lessee or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Sections 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Lessee or any ERISA Affiliate.
"ERISA Event"
means, with respect to any Participant, (a) initially, its office designated as such on to the Participation Agreement (or, in the case of any such Participant that becomes a Participant by an assignment pursuant to Section 12.1 of the Participation Agreement, its office designated as such in the applicable assignment agreement) and (b) subsequently, such other office or offices as such Participant may designate to the Administrative Agent as the office at which such Participant's LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts will thereafter be maintained and for the account of which all payments of outstanding principal and interest on (in the case of Loans) or outstanding Lessor Amounts and Yield on (in the case of Lessor Amounts) or outstanding Capital and Return on (in the case of Capital) such Participant's LIBOR Loans/Capital/Lessor Amounts will thereafter be made.
"Euro-Dollar Funding Office"
Schedule II
means any of the following:
"Event of Loss"
(a)           a Condemnation that: (i) involves a taking of the Lessor's entire interest in the Land or (ii) is likely to have a material adverse effect on the Fair Market Sales Value, use or residual value of the Property, or
(b)           a Casualty that is likely to have a material adverse effect on the Fair Market Sales Value, use or residual value of the Property (unless the insurance proceeds received in connection with such event are sufficient to repair and restore the Property to an Acceptable Condition and such repair and restoration could reasonably be expected to be completed prior to the Expiration Date).
is defined in Section 2(c)(i) of the Assignment of Lease and Rent.
"Excepted Payments"
means at any time the excess, if any, of (a) the aggregate of all awards, compensation or insurance proceeds payable in connection with a Casualty or Condemnation (b) the sum of the Property Cost then outstanding, all accrued and unpaid Basic Rent and all accrued and unpaid Contingent Payments.
"Excess Casualty/Condemnation Proceeds"
minus
means the excess, if any, of (a) the aggregate of all proceeds received by the Lessor in connection with the Lessee's exercise of the Remarketing Option under
"Excess Sales Proceeds"
A-12
Article XX of the Lease, less all fees, costs and expenses of the Lessor in connection with the exercise of its rights and remedies thereunder, (b) the outstanding Property Cost.
minus
means (i) an Acquisition of a Person that is subject to periodic reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) an Acquisition of a Person the total consideration of which (including cash and non-cash consideration and the assumption of debt and other liabilities) does not exceed $750 million.
"Exempt Acquisitions"
means those leases relating to Synthetic Lease Obligations (a) entered into on or about September 26, 2001 by and between the Lessee (as lessee) and SELCO Service Corporation (as lessor), as amended (including, without limitation, as contemplated by the Participation Agreement), and (b) evidenced by that certain Second Amended and Restated Master Lease of Land and Improvements entered into as of August 11, 2004, by and between SMBC Leasing and Finance, Inc. (as lessor) and the Lessee (as lessee).
"Existing Synthetic Leases"
means the earliest of (a) the Scheduled Lease Term Termination Date (as the same may be extended pursuant to Article XI of the Participation Agreement), or (b) any date on which the Lease shall have been terminated in accordance with the provisions of the Lease or any of the other Operative Documents.
"Expiration Date"
means, with respect to the Property, the amount, which in any event shall not be less than zero, that would be paid in cash in an arm's-length transaction between an informed and willing purchaser and an informed and willing seller, neither of whom is under any compulsion to purchase or sell, respectively, for the ownership of the Property.
"Fair Market Sales Value"
means, for any day, an interest rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three (3) federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by the Administrative Agent.
"Federal Funds Effective Rate"
is defined in Section 4.7 of the Participation Agreement.
"Fees"
means, with respect to any accounting period for any Person, statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows of such Person for such period, and a balance sheet of such Person as of the end of such period, setting forth in each case in comparative form figures for the corresponding periods in the preceding fiscal year if such period is less than a full fiscal year or, if such period is a full fiscal year, corresponding figures from the preceding annual audit, all prepared in reasonable detail and in accordance with GAAP.
"Financial Statements"
means all fixtures relating to the Improvements, including all components thereof, located in or on the Improvements, together with all replacements, modifications, alterations and additions thereto.
"Fixtures"
means the office of each Participant identified on Schedule II to the Participation Agreement as its Funding Office.
"Funding Office"
A-13
is defined in Section 3.5(a) of the Participation Agreement.
"Funding Request"
means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
"GAAP"
means all permits, authorizations, registrations, consents, approvals, waivers, exceptions, variances, orders, judgments, written interpretations, decrees, licenses, exemptions, publications, filings, notices to and declarations of or with, or required by, any Governmental Authority, or required by any Applicable Law, and shall include, without limitation, all such environmental and operating permits and licenses that are required for the use, occupancy, zoning and operation of the Property as provided in the Lease.
"Governmental Action"
means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
"Governmental Authority"
means, with respect to any Person, all levies, assessments, fees, claims or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority upon such Person or any of its property or otherwise payable by such Person.
"Governmental Charges"
means any law, rule, regulation, ordinance, order, code interpretation, judgment, decree, directive, guidelines, policy or similar form of decision of any Governmental Authority which is made publicly available.
"Governmental Rule"
means that certain Ground Lease dated as of November 9, 2001, between the Ground Lessor, as landlord thereunder, and the Lessor, as tenant thereunder, with respect to the Land, as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time.
"Ground Lease"
means Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Jose, a public body, corporate and politic, established pursuant to the Community Redevelopment Law of the State of California (Health and Safety Code Section 33000 .), together with its permitted successors and assigns.
"Ground Lessor"
et seq
means, as to any Person, any (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the ) in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or
"Guarantee"
"primary obligor"
A-14
cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person (or any right, contingent or otherwise, of any holder of such Indebtedness to obtain any such Lien).  The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith.  The term as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
"Guarantee"
means any activity, process, procedure or undertaking that (a) directly or indirectly (i) produces, generates or creates any Hazardous Material; (ii) causes or results in the Release of any Hazardous Material into the environment (including air, water vapor, surface water, groundwater, drinking water, land (including surface or subsurface), plant, aquatic and animal life); or (iii) involves the containment or storage of any Hazardous Material; and (b) is regulated as hazardous waste treatment, storage or disposal within the meaning of any Environmental Law.
"Hazardous Activity"
means all pollutants, contaminants and other materials, substances and wastes which are hazardous, toxic, caustic, harmful or dangerous to human health or the environment, including petroleum and petroleum products and byproducts, radioactive materials, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and all materials, substances and wastes which are classified or regulated as or similar descriptions under any Environmental Law.
"Hazardous Materials"
"hazardous,"
"toxic"
means, as to any Person at a particular time, without duplication, all of the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:
"Indebtedness"
(a)           all obligations of such Person for borrowed money and all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments;
(b)           all direct or contingent obligations of such Person arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments;
(c)           net obligations of such Person under any Swap Contract;
(d)           all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business and, in each case, not past due for more than 60 days after the date on which such trade account payable was created);
(e)           indebtedness (excluding prepaid interest thereon) secured by a Lien on property owned or being purchased by such Person (including indebtedness arising under
A-15
conditional sales or other title retention agreements), whether or not such indebtedness shall have been assumed by such Person or is limited in recourse;
(f)            capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations;
(g)           all obligations of such Person to purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise make any payment in respect of any Equity Interest in such Person or any other Person, valued, in the case of a redeemable preferred interest, at the greater of its voluntary or involuntary liquidation preference plus accrued and unpaid dividends; and
(h)           all Guarantees of such Person in respect of any of the foregoing.
For all purposes hereof, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to such Person.  The amount of any net obligation under any Swap Contract on any date shall be deemed to be the Swap Termination Value thereof as of such date.  The amount of any capital lease or Synthetic Lease Obligation as of any date shall be deemed to be the amount of Attributable Indebtedness in respect thereof as of such date.
means any and all liabilities, losses, expenses and costs of any kind whatsoever for fees, taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, assessments or withholdings of any nature whatsoever imposed by any Governmental Authority and any interest, penalties and other additions thereon () (including, without limitation, (a) real and personal property taxes, including personal property taxes on any property covered by the Lease that is classified by Governmental Authorities as personal property, and real estate or ad valorem taxes in the nature of property taxes; (b) sales taxes, use taxes and other similar taxes (including rent taxes and intangibles taxes); (c) any excise taxes; (d) real estate transfer taxes, conveyance taxes, mortgage taxes, intangible taxes, stamp taxes and documentary recording taxes and fees; (e) taxes that are, or are in the nature of, franchise, income, value added, privilege and doing business taxes, license and registration fees; and (f) assessments on the Property, including all assessments for public improvements or benefits (whether or not such improvements are commenced or completed during the Lease Term), and in each case all interest, additions to tax and penalties thereon), which at any time may be levied, assessed or imposed by any Federal, state, local or foreign authority upon or with respect to (i) any Tax Indemnitee, the Property or any part thereof, or interest therein, or any adjacent property or parcel that is aggregated with the Property or any part thereof for real estate tax and assessment purposes, or the Lessee or any sublessee or user of the Property; (ii) the financing, refinancing, demolition, construction, substitution, subleasing, assignment, control, condition, occupancy, servicing, maintenance, repair, ownership, possession, purchase, rental, lease, activity conducted on, delivery, insuring, use, operation, improvement, transfer, return or other disposition of the Property or any part thereof or interest therein; (iii) the Loans (and any Notes), the Capital (and any Certificates), the Lessor Amounts or interest therein or transfer thereof; (iv) the rentals, receipts or earnings arising from the Property or any part thereof or interest therein; (v) the Operative Documents or any payment made or accrued pursuant thereto; (vi) the income or other proceeds received with respect to the Property or any part thereof or interest therein upon the sale or disposition thereof; (vii) any contract relating to the construction, acquisition or delivery of the Improvements or any part
"Impositions"
"Taxes"
A-16
thereof or interest therein; (viii) the issuance of the Notes and the Certificates; or (ix) otherwise in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents.
Notwithstanding anything in the first paragraph of this definition (except as provided in the final paragraph of this definition) the term shall not mean or include:
"Impositions"
(i)            Taxes (other than Taxes that are, or are in the nature of, withholding, sales, use, rental, value added transfer or property taxes) that are imposed by the U.S. federal government and that are based upon or measured by or with respect to the net income (including any minimum taxes, capital gains taxes, or taxes on, measured by or with respect to or in the nature of capital, net worth, excess profits, items of tax preference and capital stock); , that this clause (i) shall not be interpreted to prevent a payment from being made on an After Tax Basis if such payment is otherwise required to be so made and , that Taxes described in this clause (i) shall not include Taxes that are, or are in the nature of, withholding sales, use, rental, value added, transfer or property taxes;
provided
provided, further
(ii)           Taxes (other than Taxes that are, or are in the nature of, withholding, sales, use, rental, value added, transfer or property taxes) that are (A) imposed by any U.S. state jurisdiction or any taxing authority within any U.S. state jurisdiction to the extent that such Tax Indemnitee is organized or has its Applicable Funding Office and (B) based upon or measured by income, except that this clause (ii) shall not apply to (and thus shall not exclude) any such Taxes imposed on a Tax Indemnitee by a state or political subdivision thereof where the Property is located, possessed or used under the Lease unless the Tax Indemnitee was subject to income taxes in such jurisdiction without regard to the transactions contemplated by the Operative Agreements; , that this clause (ii) shall not be interpreted to prevent a payment from being made on an After Tax Basis if such payment is otherwise required to be so made;
provided
(iii)          any Tax with respect to the Property to the extent, but only to such extent, it relates to any act, event or omission that occurs, or relates to a period, after the termination of the Lease and the payment of all Obligations, except that when such termination of the Lease is the result of the exercise of remedies after a Lease Event of Default, such exclusion shall commence only after the sale of the Property (but not any Tax or Imposition that relates to any period prior to the termination of the Lease);
(iv)          any interest or penalties imposed on a Tax Indemnitee as a result of a Tax Indemnitee's failure to file any return or other documents timely and as prescribed by Applicable Law; , that this clause (iv) shall not apply (A) if such interest or penalties arise as a result of a position taken (or requested to be taken) by the Lessee in a contest controlled by the Lessee under Section 13.5(b) of the Participation Agreement or (B) if such failure is attributable to a failure by the Lessee to fulfill its obligations under the Participation Agreement;
provided
(v)           any Taxes imposed upon a Tax Indemnitee with respect to any voluntary transfer, sale, financing or other voluntary disposition of any interest in the Property or any part thereof, or any interest therein or any interest or obligation under the Operative
A-17
Documents or from any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposition of any interest in a Tax Indemnitee or any Affiliate thereof (other than any transfer, sale or other disposition (A) pursuant to the terms of the Operative Documents in connection with the exercise by the Lessee of its Purchase Option, the Remarketing Option, or any termination option or other purchase of the Property by the Lessee, (B) after the occurrence of a Lease Event of Default, (C) in connection with a Casualty or Condemnation affecting the Property, or (D) in connection with any sublease, modification or addition to the Property by the Lessee);
(vi)          any Taxes imposed against or payable by a Tax Indemnitee to the extent resulting from, or that would not have been imposed but for, the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Tax Indemnitee;
(vii)         Taxes imposed on or payable by a Tax Indemnitee to the extent such Taxes solely result from, or would not have been imposed but for, a breach by such Tax Indemnitee of any representations, warranties or covenants set forth in the Operative Documents (unless such breach is caused by Lessee's breach of its representations, warranties or covenants set forth in the Operative Documents);
(viii)        Taxes imposed on a Tax Indemnitee to the extent resulting from such Tax Indemnitee's failure to comply with the provisions of Section 13.5(b) of the Participation Agreement, which failure precludes the ability to conduct a contest pursuant to Section 13.5(b) of the Participation Agreement (unless such failure is caused by Lessee's breach of its obligations under the Operative Documents);
(ix)           Taxes that would have been imposed in the absence of the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents;
(x)            Taxes imposed on or with respect to or payable by a Tax Indemnitee resulting from, or that would not have been imposed but for the existence of, any Lessor Lien created by or through such Tax Indemnitee or an Affiliate thereof, unless caused by acts or omissions of Lessee; and
(xi)           Taxes imposed on or with respect to or payable by a Tax Indemnitee that would not have been imposed but for an amendment, supplement, modification, consent or waiver to any Operative Document not initiated, requested or consented to by Lessee, unless such amendment, supplement, modification, consent or waiver (A) arises due to, or in connection with there having occurred, a Lease Event of Default or (B) is required by the terms of the Operative Documents or is executed in connection with any amendment to the Operative Documents required by Applicable Law;
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the exclusions from the definition of Impositions set forth in clauses (i) through (xi)above and shall not apply to any Taxes or any increase in Taxes imposed on a Tax Indemnitee to the extent that the imposition of such Taxes or such tax increase would not have occurred if on the Closing Date the Tax Indemnitees, collectively, had advanced funds to the Lessee in the form of a loan secured by the Property in an amount equal to the Advance funded on the Closing Date, with debt service for such loans equal to the Basic Rent payable on
A-18
each Rent Payment Date and a principal balance at the maturity of such loan in an amount equal to the Property Cost at the end of the term of the Lease.
means all Equipment, buildings, structures, Fixtures and other improvements of every kind existing at any time and from time to time, on or under the Land, together with any and all appurtenances to such buildings, structures or improvements, including sidewalks, utility pipes, conduits and lines, parking areas and roadways, and including all Modifications and other additions to or changes in the Improvements at any time.
"Improvements"
means, with respect to any date after the Expiration Date, an imputed return to each Participant equal to the Base Rate a margin of two percent (2.00%) per annum on such Participant's outstanding Loans, Capital or Lessor Amounts, as the case may be, during the period from the Expiration Date to such date of determination.
"Imputed Return"
plus
means each of the Lessor, the Purchasers, the Lender, each Sub-Participant, their respective Affiliates and their respective successors, assigns, directors, shareholders, partners, officers, employees and agents.
"Indemnitee"
is defined in Section 13.13(a)(iii) of the Participation Agreement.
"Indirect Withholding Taxes"
means all terms and conditions of any insurance policy either required by the Lease to be maintained by the Lessee, and all requirements of the issuer of any such policy.
"Insurance Requirements"
means the rate of interest accruing on the Loans from time to time, as set forth in Section 4.2(a) of the Participation Agreement.
"Interest Rate"
means a fraud that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in, the Lessee's internal controls over financial reporting, in each case as described in the Securities Laws.
"Internal Control Event"
means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect acquisition or investment by such Person, whether by means of (a) the purchase or other acquisition of capital stock or other securities of another Person, (b) a loan, advance or capital contribution to, Guarantee or assumption of debt of, or purchase or other acquisition of any other debt or equity participation or interest in, another Person, including any partnership or joint venture interest in such other Person and any arrangement pursuant to which the investor Guarantees Indebtedness of such other Person, or (c) the purchase or other acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of assets of another Person that constitute a business unit.  For purposes of covenant compliance, the amount of any Investment shall be the amount actually invested, without adjustment for subsequent increases or decreases in the value of such Investment.
"Investment"
is defined in Section 8.1(n) of the Participation Agreement.
"IP Rights"
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
"IRC"
is defined in the first recital of the Participation Agreement.
"Land"
A-19
means the Lease, dated as of the date of the Participation Agreement, between the Lessor and the Lessee.
"Lease"
means (a) any Lease Event of Default or (b) any event or circumstance not yet constituting a Lease Event of Default that, with the giving of any notice or the lapse of any period of time or both, would became a Lease Event of Default.
"Lease Default"
is defined in Section 16.1 of the Lease.
"Lease Event of Default"
means the Memorandum of Lease.
"Lease Supplement"
means all payments under the Operative Documents in respect of (i) the Purchaser Basic Rent, (ii) the Maximum Recourse Amount, (iii) the Purchaser Balance and (iv) any purchase by the Lessee of the Property up to the amount of the Capital then outstanding.
"Lease Receivables"
is defined in Section 2.3 of the Lease.
"Lease Term"
means, as determined as of any Rent Payment Date, interest due on the Loans, determined in accordance with Section 2.5 of the Loan Agreement and excluding (i) any interest at the applicable Default Rate on any installment of Lender Basic Rent not paid when due, and (ii) any fine, penalty, interest or cost assessed or added under any agreement with a third party for nonpayment or late payment of Lender Basic Rent.
"Lender Basic Rent"
means the Commitment of the Lender in the amount set forth on of the Participation Agreement or, upon delivery of an Assignment Agreement by any Person (whether as assignee Lender or assignor Lender) to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 12.1 of the Participation Agreement, such Person's Commitment described as a in such Assignment Agreement.
"Lender Commitment"
Schedule I
"Lender Commitment"
means a deed of trust on all of the interest of the Lessor in the Property, in appropriate recordable form sufficient to grant to the Administrative Agent, a first priority Lien on the Lessor's interest in the Property, which deed of trust shall be substantially in the form of to the Participation Agreement.
"Lender Mortgage"
Exhibit E-2
means, collectively, KeyBank National Association in its capacity as a lender under the Loan Agreement, together with its successors and assigns permitted pursuant to Section 12.1(a) of the Participation Agreement.
"Lenders"
means Adobe Systems Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, as lessee under the Lease, and its successors and assigns expressly permitted under the Lease.
"Lessee"
means the Lessee or any Person that is an Affiliate of the Lessee and is also a Purchaser or Lender hereunder.
"Lessee Party"
means SELCO Service Corporation, an Ohio corporation doing business in California as Ohio SELCO Service Corporation, together with its successors and assigns permitted pursuant to Section 12.1(c) of the Participation Agreement.
"Lessor"
A-20
is defined at Section 3.2 of the Participation Agreement.
"Lessor Amount"
means the Commitment of the Lessor in the amount set forth on of the Participation Agreement or, upon delivery of an Assignment Agreement by any Person (whether as assignee Lessor or assignor Lessor) to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 12.1 of the Participation Agreement, such Person's Commitment described as a in such Assignment Agreement.
"Lessor Commitment"
Schedule I
"Lessor Commitment"
means any Lien, true lease or sublease or disposition of title arising as a result of (a) any act or omission of the Administrative Agent or any Participant (other than a Lessee Party) that is not required or permitted by the Operative Documents or is in violation of any of the terms of the Operative Documents, (b) any claim against the Administrative Agent or any Participant (other than a Lessee Party) against which the Lessee is not required to indemnify the Administrative Agent or any Participant pursuant to Article XIII or XIV of the Participation Agreement, (c) any claim against the Lessor arising out of any transfer by the Lessor of all or any portion of the interest of the Lessor in the Property or the Operative Documents other than the transfer of title to or possession of the Property by the Lessor pursuant to and in accordance with the Operative Documents or pursuant to the exercise of the remedies set forth in Section 16.2 of the Lease, (d) the gross negligence or willful misconduct of any Participant (other than a Lessee Party) or (e) any claim against the Administrative Agent or any Participant (other than a Lessee Party) that is unrelated to the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents.
"Lessor Lien"
means a deed of trust on all of the interest of the Lessee in the Property, in appropriate recordable form sufficient to grant to the Lessor a first priority Lien on the Lessee's interest in the Property, which deed of trust shall be substantially in the form of to the Participation Agreement.
"Lessor Mortgage"
Exhibit E-1
means 5.0%.
"Lessor Percentage"
means a Loan, Capital or Lessor Amount, as the case may be, accruing interest, Return or Yield by reference to the BBA LIBO Rate.
"LIBOR Loan(s)/Capital/Lessor Amount(s)"
means, with respect to any property, (a) any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, charge or other encumbrance in, of, or on such property or the income therefrom, including, without limitation, the interest of a vendor or lessor under a conditional sale agreement, or other title retention agreement, or any agreement to provide any of the foregoing, and (b) the filing of any financing statement or similar instrument under the Uniform Commercial Code or comparable law of any jurisdiction other than filings made for notice purposes only in connection with true (but not ) leases.
"Lien"
"synthetic"
means 8.7287%.
"Loan Percentage"
is defined in Section 2.1 of the Loan Agreement.
"Loans"
shall have the meaning given to that term in Regulation U issued by the Federal Reserve Board.
"Margin Stock"
A-
21
means the period commencing on the date the Lessee gives notice of its election of the Remarketing Option and ending on the earlier of (a) the date on which the Property is sold to a purchaser in accordance with Article XX of the Lease and (b) the Expiration Date.
"Marketing Period"
means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, operations or financial condition of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; (b) the ability of the Lessee to pay or perform the Obligations in accordance with the terms of the Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents; or (c) practical realization of the material rights and remedies of Administrative Agent or any Purchaser intended to be provided under the Participation Agreement and the other Operative Documents.
"Material Adverse Effect"
means, at any date of determination, based upon the Financial Statements then most recently delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section  9.1(a) of the Participation Agreement, any Domestic Subsidiary that has as of such date total assets of at least 5% of total assets of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
"Material Domestic Subsidiary"
means, as of any date of determination, an amount equal to 86.2713% of the Property Cost outstanding at such time.
"Maximum Recourse Amount"
means a Memorandum of Lease substantially in the form of to the Lease.
"Memorandum of Lease"
Exhibit A
is defined in Section 10.1 of the Lease.
"Modifications"
means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
"Moody's"
means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Lessee or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
"Multiemployer Plan"
means certificates, licenses, approvals, consents, permits (including, without limitation, building, demolition and environmental permits, licenses, approvals, authorizations and consents), easements and rights-of-way, including dedication, and all other authorizations of Governmental Authorities or other Persons, that are required for the maintenance, use or operation of the Property as a first class corporate office building.
"Necessary Permits"
means all amounts received by the Lessor in connection with any Casualty or Condemnation or any sale of the Property pursuant to the Lessor's exercise of remedies under Section 16.2 of the Lease or the Lessee's exercise of the Remarketing Option under Article XX of the Lease, and all interest earned thereon, any Impositions arising in connection with such amounts, if any, and the expense of claiming and collecting such amounts, including all costs and expenses in connection therewith for which the Lessor or any Participant is entitled to be reimbursed pursuant to the Lease.
"Net Property Proceeds"
less
less
A-
22
means the proceeds of the sale of the Property pursuant to the Remarketing Option all Sales Costs incurred in connection therewith.
"Net Remarketing Proceeds"
less
is defined in Section 2.3 of the Loan Agreement.
"Note"
means and includes, with respect to the Lessee, all loans, advances, debts, liabilities, and obligations, howsoever arising, of the Lessee to the Administrative Agent, any Participant, any other Affected Party or any Indemnitee or Tax Indemnitee, of every kind and description (whether or not evidenced by any note or instrument and whether or not for the payment of money), direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising pursuant to the terms of any of the Operative Documents, including without limitation all Basic Rent, Supplemental Rent, fees, charges, expenses, attorneys' fees and accountants' fees chargeable to the Lessee or payable by the Lessee thereunder.
"Obligations"
means the following:
"Operative Documents"
(a)           the Participation Agreement;
(b)           the Ground Lease;
(c)           the Lease;
(d)           the Memorandum of Lease;
(e)           the Loan Agreement;
(f)            the Security and Assignment Agreement;
(g)           the Receivables Purchase Agreement;
(h)           each Note;
(i)            each Certificate;
(j)            the Assignment of Lease and Rent;
(k)           the UCC Financing Statements;
(l)            the Lessor Mortgage and the Lender Mortgage;
(m)          the RVI Policy; and
(n)           each other document, agreement, certificate or instrument delivered in connection with the foregoing (including any amendment or other modification to any of the foregoing).
is defined in Article XI of the Participation Agreement.
"Original Expiration Date"
is defined in Section 24.10 of the Lease.
"Original Executed Counterpart"
A-
23
means as of any date of determination:  (a) with respect to any Purchaser, an amount equal to its outstanding Capital, together with all accrued and unpaid Return thereon and all other amounts due and payable to such Purchaser under the Operative Documents, (b) with respect to any Lender, an amount equal to its outstanding Loans, together with all accrued and unpaid interest thereon and all other amounts due and payable to such Lender under the Operative Documents, and (c) with respect to the Lessor, an amount equal to the aggregate outstanding Lessor Amounts, together with all accrued and unpaid Yield thereon and all other amounts due and payable to the Lessor under the Operative Documents.
"Participant Balance"
means, collectively, the Lessor, the Lender and the Purchasers, together with their respective successors and assigns.
"Participants"
means the Participation Agreement, dated as of March 26, 2007, among the Lessee, the Lessor, the Purchaser, the Lender and the Administrative Agent.
"Participation Agreement"
means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
"PBGC"
.
means the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
"PCAOB"
" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Lessee or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan"
means any of the following:
"Permitted Property Liens"
(a)           the respective rights and interests of the parties to the Operative Documents as provided in the Operative Documents (including all Liens in favor of the Participants created under the Security Documents);
(b)           Lessor Liens;
(c)           Liens for Taxes that are not yet due;
(d)           Liens arising by operation of law, materialmen's, vendors', mechanics', workers', repairmen's, employees', carriers', warehousemen's and other like Liens in connection with any Modifications or arising in the ordinary course of business for amounts that either are not more than sixty (60) days past due or are being diligently contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, so long as such proceedings satisfy the conditions for the continuation of proceedings to contest Taxes set forth in Section 12.1 of the Lease;
(e)           Liens of any of the types referred to in clause (d) above that have been bonded for not less than the full amount in dispute (or as to which other security arrangements satisfactory to the Lessor have been made), which bonding (or
A-
24
arrangements) shall comply with Applicable Law, and has effectively stayed any execution or enforcement of such Liens;
(f)            Liens arising out of judgments or awards with respect to which appeals or other proceedings for review are being prosecuted in good faith and for the payment of which adequate reserves have been provided as required by GAAP or other appropriate provisions have been made, so long as such proceedings have the effect of staying the execution of such judgments or awards and satisfy the conditions for the continuation of proceedings to contest set forth in Section 12.1 of the Lease;
(g)           easements, rights of way and other encumbrances on title to real property permitted pursuant to Section 12.2 of the Lease;
(h)           Liens described on the title insurance policy delivered with respect to the Property pursuant to Section 6.1(t) of the Participation Agreement other than Liens described in clause (d) or (f) above that are not removed within thirty (30) days of their origination;
(i)            Liens for Taxes that are being contested in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.1 of the Lease; and
(j)            subleases that are permitted under Section 6.2 of the Lease.
means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
"Person"
means any "employee benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) established by the Lessee or, with respect to any such plan that is subject to Section 412 of the Code or Title IV of ERISA, any ERISA Affiliate.
"Plan"
means the final plans and specifications for the Property.
"Plans and Specifications"
has the meaning specified in Section 9.1(b) of the Participation Agreement.
"Platform"
is defined in the first recital of the Participation Agreement.
"Property"
means the sum of (a) the Property Cost and (b) any other amounts due and owing by the Lessee under the Operative Documents (including all Contingent Payments then due and owing).
"Property Balance"
is defined in Section 13.2(c) of the Participation Agreement.
"Property Completion Differential"
means, at any date of determination, (a) the amount of Advance made pursuant to Article III of the Participation Agreement, (b) any payments received by the Administrative Agent as insurance proceeds, condemnation awards or liquidated damages and which are applied to reduce the amount of the Advance then outstanding, (c) any other payments received by the Administrative Agent that are distributed to the Participants pursuant
"Property Cost"
minus
minus
A-
25
to Article VII of the Participation Agreement for application to pay the Loans, Capital or the Lessor Amounts (as the case may be).
is defined in Section 22.1(c) of the Lease.
"Property Rents"
means with respect to (a) a Lender, a percentage equal to such Lender's share of the Lender Commitment, in each case, as set forth next to such Lender's name on to the Participation Agreement or on any assignment pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, and (b) a Purchaser, a percentage equal to such Purchaser's share of the Purchaser Commitment, in each case, as set forth next to such Purchaser's name on to the Participation Agreement or on any assignment pursuant to which such Purchaser becomes a party hereto.
"Pro Rata Share"
pro rata
Schedule I
pro rata
Schedule I
means, at any time, the undivided percentage ownership interests in (i) the Lease Receivables, and (ii) all payments with respect to, and other proceeds of, such Lease Receivables and Collateral.
"Purchased Interests"
"Purchase Notice"
means an irrevocable written notice by the Lessee delivered to the Lessor pursuant to Section 18.1 of the Lease, notifying the Lessor of the Lessee's intention to exercise its option pursuant to such Section, and specifying the proposed purchase date therefor.
"Purchase Option"
means the Lessee's option to purchase the Property in accordance with the provisions of Section 18.1 of the Lease.
is defined in Section 18.1 of the Lease.
"Purchase Price"
means, collectively, KeyBank National Association and Adobe Systems Incorporated each in its capacity as a purchaser under the Receivables Purchase Agreement, together with its respective successors and assigns permitted pursuant to Section 12.1(b) of the Participation Agreement.
"Purchaser"
means, as determined as of any Rent Payment Date, Return due on the Capital, determined in accordance with Section 2.5 of the Receivables Purchase Agreement and excluding (i) any return at the applicable Default Rate on any installment of Purchaser Basic Rent not paid when due, and (ii) any fine, penalty, interest or cost assessed or added under any agreement with a third party for nonpayment or late payment of Purchaser Basic Rent.
"Purchaser Basic Rent"
"Purchaser Balance"
means, as of any date of determination, an amount equal to the sum of the outstanding Capital together with all accrued and unpaid return thereon pursuant to the Receivables Purchase Agreement and all other amounts due and payable to the Purchasers under the Operative Documents.
"Purchaser Commitment"
means the aggregate Commitments of the Purchasers set forth on of the Participation Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended, supplemented, amended and restated, reduced or otherwise modified from time to time.
Schedule I
A-
26
"Purchaser Percentage"
means 86.2713%.
"Real Property"
of any person means all of the right, title and interest of such person in and to land, improvements and fixtures, including Leaseholds.
"Receivables Purchase Agreement"
means the Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 26, 2007, among the Lessor, the Purchasers and the Administrative Agent.
"Reference Bank Rate"
means, with respect to any Basic Rent Period for any LIBOR Loan/Capital/Lessor Amount, the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest 1/100
th
 of one percent) of the rates per annum at which Dollar deposits are offered to each of the Reference Banks in the London interbank market on the Second Business Day prior to the first day of such Basic Rent Period at or about 11:00 a.m. (London time) (for delivery on the first day of such Basic Rent Period in an amount substantially equal to the amount of such LIBOR Loan/Capital/Lessor Amount and for a term comparable to such Basic Rent Period).
"Reference Banks"
means (a) KeyBank National Association and (b) any Participant or Participants selected as a Reference Bank by the Administrative Agent and the Required Participants, that if any of such Reference Banks is no longer a Participant, such other Participant or Participants as may be selected by the Administrative Agent acting on instructions from the Required Participants.
provided,
has the meaning specified in the Securities Laws and shall be independent of the Lessee as prescribed by the Securities Laws.
"Registered Public Accounting Firm"
"Release"
means any release, pumping, pouring, emptying, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, seepage, spill, leak, flow, discharge, disposal or emission of a Hazardous Material.
is defined in Section 20.1 of the Lease.
"Remarketing Option"
is defined in Section 19.1 of the Lease.
"Renewal Option"
means, collectively, the Basic Rent and the Supplemental Rent, in each case payable under the Lease.
"Rent"
means the last day of each Basic Rent Period then in effect.
"Rent Payment Date"
means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
"Reportable Event"
is defined in Section 21.1 of the Lease.
"Requesting Party"
means, at any time, Lenders having Pro Rata Shares representing at least 66 2/3% of the aggregate principal amount of the Loans outstanding.
"Required Lenders"
"Required Modification"
is defined in Section 10.1(a) of the Lease.
A-
27
"Required Participants"
means, at any time, (i) the Lessor and (ii) subject to the limits on the rights of Lessee Parties in Section 16.16 of the Participation Agreement, Participants having Commitments representing at least 66-2/3% of the aggregate Commitments.
"Required Purchasers"
means, subject to the limits on the rights of Lessee Parties in Section 16.16 of the Participation Agreement, at any time, Purchasers having Pro Rata Shares representing at least 66-2/3% of the aggregate amount of Capital outstanding.
applicable to any Person means (a) the Articles or Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws, Partnership Agreement or other organizational or governing documents of such Person, (b) any Governmental Rule applicable to such Person, (c) any license, permit, approval or other authorization granted by any Governmental Authority to or for the benefit of such Person or (d) any judgment, decision or determination of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its property or to which such Person or any of its property is subject.
"Requirement of Law"
means, with respect to any day in a Basic Rent Period for a LIBOR Loan/Capital/Lessor Amount, the aggregate of the reserve requirement rates (expressed as a decimal) in effect on such day for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as in Regulation D of the Federal Reserve Board) maintained by a member bank of the Federal Reserve System.  As used herein, the term shall include, without limitation, any basic, supplemental or emergency reserve requirements imposed on any Lender by any Governmental Authority.
"Reserve Requirement"
"Eurocurrency liabilities"
"reserve requirement"
means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, or treasurer of the Lessee.  Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of the Lessee shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of the Lessee and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of Lessee.
"Responsible Officer"
means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any capital stock or other Equity Interest of the Lessee or any Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, defeasance, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other Equity Interest, or on account of any return of capital to the Lessee's stockholders, partners or members (or the equivalent Person thereof).
"Restricted Payment"
or means the rate of return accruing on the Capital from time to time, as set forth in Section 4.3(a) of the Participation Agreement.
"Return"
"Return Rate"
is defined in Section 20.1 of the Lease.
"Return Conditions"
means the Residual Value Insurance Policy from the RVI Provider for the benefit of the Lessor and all documents and agreements delivered pursuant thereto or in connection therewith.
"RVI Policy"
A-
28
means R.V.I. America.
"RVI Provider"
means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
"S&P"
" means any marketing, closing or other costs, and commissions related to the sale of the Property, in each case in connection with the Lessee's exercise of its Remarketing Option.
Sales Costs"
means the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
"Sarbanes-Oxley"
means March 26, 2012, or, if the same is extended pursuant to Section 11.2 of the Participation Agreement, March 26, 2017.
"Scheduled Lease Term Termination Date"
means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
"SEC"
is defined in Section 22.1(a) of the Lease.
"Secured Obligations"
means each of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Participants, as their interests may from time to time appear.
"Secured Parties"
means the Securities Act of 1933, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
"Securities Act"
means the Securities Act, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sarbanes-Oxley and the applicable accounting and auditing principles, rules, standards and practices promulgated, approved or incorporated by the SEC or the PCAOB.
"Securities Laws"
means the Security and Assignment Agreement dated as of the date of the Participation Agreement, from the Lessee, as grantor, in favor of the Administrative Agent.
"Security and Assignment Agreement"
means, collectively, the Lessor Mortgage, the Lender Mortgage, the Security and Assignment Agreement, the UCC Financing Statements and all other documents, agreements and instruments executed and delivered in order to establish, preserve, protect and perfect the Lien of the Secured Parties in the Collateral.
"Security Documents"
means, as of any date of determination, consolidated shareholders' equity of the Lessee and its Subsidiaries on that date, determined in accordance with GAAP.
"Shareholders' Equity"
means, as of the Expiration Date, an amount equal to (a) the Property Cost, (b) the portion of the Maximum Recourse Amount received by the Lessor from the Lessee pursuant to Section 20.1(m)(i of the Lease, (c) the Net Remarketing Proceeds received by the Lessor in accordance with  Section 20.1(l) of the Lease; , that if a sale of the Property is not consummated on or prior to the Expiration Date, then the term
"Shortfall Amount"
minus
)
minus
provided, however
A-
29
means an amount equal to (i) the Property Cost, (ii) the Maximum Recourse Amount received by the Lessor pursuant to Section 20.1(m)(i) of the Lease.
"Shortfall Amount"
minus
means, with respect to any Person on any date, that on such date (a) the fair value of the property of such Person is greater than the fair value of the liabilities (including contingent, subordinated, matured and unliquidated liabilities) of such Person, (b) the present fair saleable value of the assets of such Person is greater than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of such Person on its debts as they become absolute and matured, (c) such Person does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur debts or liabilities beyond such Person's ability to pay as such debts and liabilities mature, and (d) such Person is not engaged in or about to engage in business or transactions for which such Person's property would constitute an unreasonably small capital.
"Solvent"
means Lease Advisory Services, a division of Key Equipment Finance Inc.
"Structuring Agent"
is defined in Section 12.2 of the Participation Agreement..
"Sub-Participant"
of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person.  Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a or to shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Lessee.
"Subsidiary"
"Subsidiary"
"Subsidiaries"
means all amounts, liabilities and obligations (other than Basic Rent) which the Lessee assumes or agrees to pay to the Lessor or any other Person under the Lease, or under any of the other Operative Documents, including, without limitation, Contingent Payments, Fees, Break Costs, the Maximum Recourse Amount, and payments pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Lease and Articles XVIII and XX of the Lease.
"Supplemental Rent"
means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with
"Swap Contract"
A-
30
any related schedules, a ), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
"Master Agreement"
means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Participant or any Affiliate of a Participant).
"Swap Termination Value"
means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
"Synthetic Lease Obligation"
is defined in the definition of Impositions.
"Taxes"
means the Lessor, the Purchasers, the Lenders, the Administrative Agent, each Sub-Participant, their respective Affiliates and their respective successors, assigns, directors, shareholders, partners, officers, employees and agents.
"Tax Indemnitee"
is defined in Section 13.13(a) of the Participation Agreement.
"Taxing Authority"
is defined in Article XI of the Participation Agreement.
"Term Extension Notice"
is defined in Section 15.2 of the Lease.
"Termination Date"
is defined in Section 15.1 of the Lease.
"Termination Notice"
means First American Title Insurance Company or such other title insurance company as may be selected by the Lessee with the approval of the Lessor.
"Title Company"
is defined in 6.1 of the Participation Agreement.
"Transactions"
means all costs, expenses and Impositions incurred in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Operative Documents and the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents including without limitation:
"Transaction Expenses"
(a)           the reasonable fees, out-of-pocket expenses and disbursements of Schiff Hardin LLP, special counsel for the Lessor, KeyBank (as a Purchaser) and the Administrative Agent, in negotiating the terms of the Operative Documents and the other transaction documents to be delivered in connection with the Closing Date, preparing for, and rendering opinions in connection with, the Transactions contemplated to occur on the Closing Date, and in rendering other services in connection with the Closing Date,
A-
31
customary for counsel representing parties to Transactions of the types involved in the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents;
(b)           the reasonable fees, out-of-pocket expenses and disbursements of special counsel for the Lessee in negotiating the terms of the Operative Documents and the other transaction documents to be delivered in connection with the Closing Date, preparing for, and rendering opinions in connection with, the transactions contemplated to occur on the Closing Date, and in rendering other services in connection with the Closing Date, customary for counsel representing parties to transactions of the types involved in the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents;
(c)any and all costs and expenses (including premiums) associated with obtaining the RVI Policy;
          
(d)           the Fees;
(e)           any and all Taxes, charges and fees incurred in recording, registering or filing any Operative Document or any other transaction document, any deed, declaration, mortgage, security agreement, notice or financing statement with any public office, registry or governmental agency in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents;
(f)            all title insurance premiums and escrow and closing costs;
(g)           the fees and expenses of Lessee's accountants incurred in connection with the analysis and review of the Transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents;
(h)           all survey, appraisal, inspection, environmental review and similar costs and expenses related to the Property and incurred in connection with the Transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents and the closing thereof; and
(i)            all advisory and consulting fees and charges incurred by Lessee in connection with the evaluation, analysis and structuring of the Transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents, including the fees and charges of 42 North Structured Finance.
is defined in Section 22.1(a) of the Lease.
"Trustee"
means UCC financing statements appropriately completed and executed for filing in the applicable jurisdiction in order to protect the respective security interests of the Administrative Agent, the Lessor and the other Participants in the Property and other Collateral under the Lessor Mortgage, the Lender Mortgage and the Security and Assignment Agreement.
"UCC Financing Statements"
and means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in any applicable jurisdiction.
"Uniform Commercial Code"
"UCC"
is defined in Section 13.13(a)(i) of the Participation Agreement.
"Withholding Taxes"
A-
32
is defined in Section 4.4(a) of the Participation Agreement.
"Yield"
means at any date (a) with respect to any Lessor Amount that is a LIBOR Loan/Capital/Lessor Amount, the BBA LIBO Rate for the applicable Basic Rent Period then in effect for Lessor Amounts a margin of 1.50% per annum and (b) at any time that Yield on the Lessor Amounts is to be calculated by reference to the Base Rate, the Base Rate.
"Yield Rate"
plus
 
A-
33


