FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20070320161909.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
March 20, 2007
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported):
 
Adobe Systems Incorporated
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On March 20, 2007, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for its first fiscal quarter ended March 2, 2007. A copy of this press release is furnished and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report and the exhibit attached hereto are being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
The attached press release includes non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and forecasted non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP earnings per share and non-GAAP effective tax rate for the second fiscal quarter 2007 and non-GAAP operating margin for the full fiscal year 2007.
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. The Registrant believes that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with the Registrant's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate the Registrant's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, Adobe's management uses financial information that does not include: (a) the stock-based compensation impact of SFAS 123R, (b) restructuring and other charges,  (c) amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology, (d) amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation, (e) investment gains and losses and the related tax impact, (f) tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia acquisition-related charges, (g) tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of SFAS 123R stock-based compensation, (h) net tax impact of the R&D tax benefit, and (i) effective tax rate.  Adobe's management uses these non-GAAP financial measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Adobe's operational performance and gives us a better understanding of how we should invest in research and development and fund infrastructure and go-to-market strategies.  Management uses these measures to help it make budgeting decisions, for example, as between product development expenses and research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate management's internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.
As described above, Adobe excludes the following items from one or more of its non-GAAP measures:
A..  These expenses consist of expenses for employee stock options and employee stock purchases under SFAS 123(R). Adobe excludes stock-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) in fiscal 2006, Adobe did not include expenses related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases directly in its financial statements, but elected, as permitted by SFAS 123, to disclose such expenses in the footnotes to its financial statements.  As Adobe applies SFAS 123(R), we believe that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of SFAS 123(R) to our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  While stock-based compensation expense calculated in accordance with SFAS 123(R) constitutes an ongoing and recurring expense, such expense is excluded from non-GAAP results because it is not an expense that typically requires or will require cash settlement by Adobe and because such expense is not used by management to assess the core profitability of our business
            Stock compensation impact of SFAS 123R
 
operations. We further believe these measures are useful to investors in that they allow for greater transparency to certain line items in our financial statements.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates comparisons to our competitors' operating results.
 
B..  Adobe incurred Board of Director approved restructuring charges associated with realigning its business upon the acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005.  These actions were taken to eliminate certain duplicative activities, focus our resources on future growth opportunities and reduce our cost structure.  In connection with the worldwide restructuring plan, Adobe recognized costs related to termination benefits for former Adobe employees whose positions were eliminated and for the closure of Adobe facilities.  We also recognized costs related to the cancellation of certain contracts held by Adobe.  Adobe excludes these items because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.  It is possible, however, that additional charges related to its facility leases may be incurred for various reasons including changes in cost estimates, the date the facility is vacated, subtenant leases, etc.
            Restructuring and other charges
C..  Adobe incurs amortization of purchased intangible assets primarily in connection with its acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005. Adobe also incurred charges related to incomplete technology in connection with certain small acquisitions. Purchased intangibles include (a) developed technology and (b) core technology and patents. Developed technology relates primarily to Macromedia products across all of Macromedia product lines that had reached technological feasibility as of December 2005. Core technology and patents represent primarily a combination of Macromedia's processes, patents and trade secrets developed through years of experience in design and development of their products. We expect to amortize for accounting purposes the fair value of the purchased intangibles based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible assets will be consumed as revenue is generated.  Although, the intangible assets generate revenue for Adobe, we exclude this item because this expense is non-cash in nature and because we believe the non-GAAP financial measures excluding this item provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates management's internal comparisons to Adobe's historical operating results and comparisons to our competitors' operating results.
            Amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology
D..  Adobe is amortizing deferred compensation related to unvested options assumed in connection with its acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005. The deferred compensation is expected to be fully amortized by the end of fiscal 2007.  Adobe excludes these items because these expenses are non-cash in nature and because the non-GAAP financial measures which exclude this item provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance, liquidity, and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  We further believe that excluding this expense is useful to investors in that it allows for greater transparency to certain line items in our financial statements.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates management's internal comparisons to Adobe's historical operating results and comparisons to our competitors' operating results.
            Amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation
E..  Adobe incurs investment gains and losses on the sale and exchange of equity securities that are held directly and also indirectly through investment partnerships. Adobe does not actively trade publicly-held securities nor does Adobe rely on these securities positions for funding its ongoing operations.  We exclude gains and losses  and the related tax impact on these equity securities because these items are unrelated to our ongoing business and operating results.
             Investment gains and losses and the related tax impact
F.These amounts are independent and not reflective of Adobe's ongoing operating results and are excluded on such a basis consistent with the explanations provided above.
             Tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia acquisition-related charges. 
G..  These amounts are dependent on the trading price of Adobe's common stock and the timing
            Tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of SFAS 123R stock-based compensation
 
and exercise by employees of their stock options. As such, they have no direct correlation to Adobe's operation of its business.
 
H.            In the first quarter of 2007, Adobe realized a one time tax benefit due to the reenactment of the Federal Research and Development tax credit, which was retroactively extended to January 1, 2006.  The impact of this law change was reflected in our first quarter fiscal year 2007 tax provision as a discrete item related to the tax credit for fiscal year 2006.  Adobe has excluded this item because this tax benefit is not reflective of ongoing results and has no direct correlation to the operation of Adobe's business.
Net tax impact of the R&D Tax Benefit.
I.. Excluding the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes assists investors in understanding the tax provision associated with those adjustments and the effective tax rate of Adobe related to its ongoing operations.
              Effective Tax Rate
Adobe believes that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with Adobe's financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate Adobe's financial results in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures and that is why Adobe qualifies the use of non-GAAP financial information in a statement when non-GAAP information is presented.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
Adobe Systems Reports First Quarter Results
Company Readies for Biggest Product Launch in its History
SAN JOSE, Calif.  March 20, 2007
 Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today reported financial results for its first quarter ended March 2, 2007.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, Adobe achieved revenue of $649.4 million, compared to $655.5 million reported for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and $682.2 million reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.  Adobe's first quarter revenue target range was $640 to $670 million.
"Q1 was a solid quarter for Adobe, as we came in at the high end of our earnings target range and were within our targeted range for revenue," said Bruce Chizen, chief executive officer of Adobe. "As Adobe prepares for the biggest product launch in our history, we are excited about our opportunities and bullish about our prospects for another year of strong performance."
GAAP Results
Adobe's GAAP diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 were $0.24, based on 604.2 million weighted average shares. This compares with GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.17 reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, based on 621.8 million weighted average shares, and GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.30 reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, based on 602.2 million weighted average shares. Adobe's first quarter of fiscal 2007 GAAP earnings per share target range was $0.17 to $0.20.
GAAP operating income was $146.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $130.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and $163.4 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.  As a percent of revenue, GAAP operating income in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 was 22.5 percent, compared to 19.8 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and 23.9 percent in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.
GAAP net income was $143.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $105.1 million reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, and $183.2 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.
Non-GAAP Results
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 were $0.30.  This compares with non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.32 reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.33 reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.  Adobe's first quarter non-GAAP earnings per share target range was $0.28 to $0.30.
Adobe's non-GAAP operating income was $222.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $252.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and $255.8 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.  As a percent of revenue, non-GAAP operating income in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 was 34.3 percent, compared to 38.5 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and 37.5 percent in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.
Non-GAAP net income was $182.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $197.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, and $198.3 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.
A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided at the end of this press release.
Adobe Provides Second Quarter Financial Targets and Reaffirms Fiscal Year 2007 Financial Targets
For the second quarter of fiscal 2007, Adobe announced it is targeting revenue of $700 million to $740 million.  The Company also is targeting a GAAP operating margin of approximately 23 to 25 percent in the second quarter.  On a non-GAAP basis, the Company is targeting a second quarter operating margin of approximately 36 to 37 percent.
In addition, Adobe is targeting its share count to be between 605 million and 607 million shares in the second quarter of fiscal 2007.  The Company also is targeting other income in its second quarter to be approximately $23 million to $24 million, with a GAAP tax rate of approximately 24 to 26 percent and a non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 25 to 27 percent.
These targets lead to a second quarter GAAP earnings per share target range of approximately $0.23 to $0.26.  On a non-GAAP basis, the Company is targeting earnings per share of approximately $0.34 to $0.36.
For fiscal year 2007, Adobe announced it is reaffirming its annual revenue growth target of approximately 15 percent.  The Company also reaffirmed it is targeting a GAAP operating margin of approximately 25 to 27 percent, and a non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 37 to 38 percent.
A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP targets is provided at the end of this press release.
2
Forward Looking Statements Disclosure
This press release contains forward looking statements, including those related to revenue, operating margin, other income, tax rate, share count and earnings per share, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: delays in development or shipment of Adobe's new products or major new versions of existing products, introduction of new products by existing and new competitors, failure to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which Adobe does business, difficulty in predicting revenue from new businesses, failure to anticipate and develop new products in response to changes in demand for application software, computers, printers, or other non PC-devices, costs related to intellectual property acquisitions, disputes and litigation, inability to protect Adobe's intellectual property from unauthorized copying, use, disclosure or malicious attack, failure to realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and difficulty in integrating such acquisitions, changes to Adobe's distribution channel, disruption of Adobe's business due to catastrophic events, interruptions or terminations in Adobe's relationships with turnkey assemblers, risks associated with international operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles, impairment of Adobe's goodwill or intangible assets, unanticipated changes in, or interpretations of, Adobe's effective tax rates, Adobe's inability to attract and retain key personnel, and market risks associated with Adobe's equity investments. For further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, individuals should refer to Adobe's SEC filings.  The financial information set forth in this press release reflects estimates based on information available at this time.  These amounts could differ from actual reported amounts stated in Adobe's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter ended March 2, 2007, which the company expects to file in April, 2007.  Adobe does not undertake an obligation to update forward looking statements.
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
Adobe revolutionizes how the world engages with ideas and information  anytime, anywhere, and through any medium.  For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
###
 2007 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe, Macromedia, and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
3
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
 
 
4
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
 
 
5
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands; unaudited)
 
 
6
 
Non-GAAP Results
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
The following table shows Adobe's non-GAAP results reconciled to GAAP results included in this release.
 
 
 
7
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP operating expense for the quarters ended March 2, 2007, March 3, 2006, and December 1, 2006.
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP operating margin for the quarter ended March 2, 2007, March 3, 2006, and December 1, 2006.
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter ended March 2, 2007.
 
8
Second Quarter and Fiscal Year 2007 Non-GAAP Financial Targets
The following tables show Adobe's non-GAAP financial targets reconciled to GAAP financial targets included in this release.
 
 
The following table shows Adobe's non-GAAP operating margin targets reconciled to GAAP operating margin targets included in this release for fiscal year 2007.
Adobe continues to provide all information required in accordance with GAAP, but believes evaluating its ongoing operating results may not be as useful if an investor is limited to reviewing only GAAP financial
9
measures.  Accordingly, Adobe uses non-GAAP financial information to evaluate its ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes.  Adobe's management does not itself, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Adobe presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate Adobe's operating results in a manner that focuses on what Adobe believes to be its ongoing business operations.  Adobe's management believes it is useful for itself and investors to review, as applicable,  both GAAP information that includes the stock compensation impact of SFAS 123R, restructuring and other charges, amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology, amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation, investment gains and losses, tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia acquisition and related charges and SFAS 123R stock-based compensation, the net tax impact of the R&D tax benefit, and the non-GAAP measures that exclude such information in order to assess the performance of Adobe's business and for planning and forecasting in subsequent periods.  Whenever Adobe uses such a non-GAAP financial measure, it provides a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most closely applicable GAAP financial measure.  Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure as detailed above.
For the first quarter of fiscal year 2007 and for fiscal year 2006, Adobe's GAAP financial information and targets include the stock compensation impact of SFAS 123R, restructuring and other charges, amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology, amortization of Macromedia deferred compensation, and tax differences related to the timing and deductibility of the Macromedia acquisition and related charges and SFAS 123R stock-based compensation and the net tax impact of the R&D tax benefit. Also, in accordance with GAAP, Adobe incurs investment gains and losses from its venture program. These charges are otherwise unrelated to Adobe's ongoing business operations and are excluded from its non-GAAP financial information and targets.
10


