FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20071217161540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
                
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
                
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
                
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
                
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On December 17, 2007, Adobe issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended November 30, 2007. A copy of this press release is furnished and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this report and the exhibit attached hereto are being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
 
The attached press release includes non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, and forecasted non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP earnings per share.
 
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. We believe that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
 
For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, we use financial information that does not include: (a) the stock-based compensation impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123revised 2004 ("SFAS 123(R)"), "Share-Based Payment" and related tax impact; (b) amortization of Macromedia stock-based compensation and related tax impact; (c) restructuring and other charges and related tax impact; (d) amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology and related tax impact; (e) investment gains and losses and related tax impact; (f) net tax impact of the R&D tax benefit and (g) the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes.  We use these non-GAAP financial measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and give us a better understanding of how we should invest in research and development and fund infrastructure and go-to-market strategies.  We use these measures to help us make budgeting decisions, for example, as between product development expenses and research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate our internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.
 
As described above, we exclude the following items from one or more of our non-GAAP measures:
 
A..  These expenses consist of expenses for employee stock options and employee stock purchases under SFAS 123(R). We exclude stock-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) in fiscal 2006, we did not include expenses related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases directly in our financial statements, but elected, as permitted by SFAS 123, to disclose such expenses in the footnotes to our financial statements.  As we apply SFAS 123(R), we believe that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of SFAS 123(R) to our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  While stock-based compensation expense calculated in accordance with SFAS 123(R) constitutes an ongoing and recurring expense, such expense is excluded from non-GAAP results because it is not an expense that typically requires or will require cash settlement by us and because such expense is not used by us to assess the core profitability of our business operations. We further believe these measures are useful to investors in that they allow for greater transparency to certain line items in our financial statements.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates comparisons to our competitors' operating results.
            Stock compensation impact of SFAS 123(R) and related tax impact
B..  We are amortizing stock-based compensation related to unvested options assumed in connection with our acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005. The stock-based compensation is expected to be fully amortized by the end of fiscal 2009.  We exclude these items because these expenses are non-cash in nature and because the non-GAAP financial measures which exclude this item provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance, liquidity, and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  We further believe that excluding this expense is useful to investors in that it allows for greater transparency to certain line items in our financial statements.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates our internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to our competitors' operating results.
            Amortization of Macromedia stock-based compensation and related tax impact
 
C..  We incurred Board of Director approved restructuring charges associated with realigning our business upon the acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005.  These actions were taken to eliminate certain duplicative activities, focus our resources on future growth opportunities and reduce our cost structure.  In connection with the worldwide restructuring plan, we recognized costs related to termination benefits for former Adobe employees whose positions were eliminated and for the closure of Adobe facilities.  We also recognized costs related to the cancellation of certain contracts held by us.  We exclude these items because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
            Restructuring and other charges and related tax impact
 
D..  We incur amortization of purchased intangible assets primarily in connection with our acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005. Purchased intangibles include (a) developed technology and (b) core technology and patents. Developed technology relates primarily to Macromedia products across all of Macromedia product lines that had reached technological feasibility as of December 2005. Core technology and patents represent primarily a combination of Macromedia's processes, patents and trade secrets developed through years of experience in design and development of its products. We expect to amortize for accounting purposes the fair value of the purchased intangibles based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible assets will be consumed as revenue is generated.  Although, the intangible assets generate revenue for us, we exclude this item because this expense is non-cash in nature and because we believe the non-GAAP financial measures excluding this item provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates our internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to our competitors' operating results. We also incurred charges related to (i) amortization of purchased intangible assets and incomplete technology in connection with certain small acquisitions and (ii) prior activity in connection with a technology license arrangement. We exclude these items because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
            Amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology and related tax impact
 
E..  We incur investment gains and losses on the sale and exchange of equity securities that are held directly and also indirectly through investment partnerships. We do not actively trade publicly-held securities nor do we rely on these securities positions for funding our ongoing operations.  We exclude gains and losses and the related tax impact on these equity securities because these items are unrelated to our ongoing business and operating results.
             Investment gains and losses and related tax impact
 
F.             In the first quarter of 2007, Adobe realized a one time tax benefit due to the reenactment of the Federal Research and Development tax credit, which was retroactively extended to January 1, 2006.  The impact of this law change was reflected in our first quarter fiscal year 2007 tax provision as a discrete item related to the tax credit for fiscal year 2006.  Adobe has excluded this item because this tax benefit is not reflective of ongoing results and has no direct correlation to the operation of Adobe's business.
Net tax impact of the R&D Tax Benefit.
G.            . Excluding the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes assists investors in understanding the tax provision associated with those adjustments and the effective tax rate related to our ongoing operations.
Effective Tax Rate
 
We believe that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our financial results in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures and that is why we qualify the use of non-GAAP financial information in a statement when non-GAAP information is presented.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Adobe Reports Record Quarterly and Fiscal Year Revenue
 
 
Strong Adoption of Creative Suite, Acrobat and Enterprise Solutions Drives 23 Percent Annual Revenue Growth
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  December 17, 2007 
Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today reported financial results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended November 30, 2007.
 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, Adobe achieved record revenue of $911.2 million, compared to $682.2 million reported for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and $851.7 million reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2007. This represents 34 percent year-over-year revenue growth. Adobe's fourth quarter revenue target range was $860 to $890 million.
 
"Driving our Q4 results were continued adoption of our Creative Suite 3 family of products, record revenue for Acrobat and strong momentum in our enterprise business," said Shantanu Narayen, president and chief executive officer of Adobe. "As we enter fiscal 2008, we are performing exceptionally well and the Company is positioned to achieve a sixth consecutive year of double-digit growth."
 
Adobe Reports Record Annual Revenue in Fiscal Year 2007
 
In fiscal year 2007, Adobe achieved record revenue of $3.158 billion, compared to $2.575 billion in fiscal 2006. On a year-over-year basis, annual revenue grew 23 percent.
 
Adobe's annual GAAP net income was $723.8 million in fiscal 2007, compared to $505.8 million in fiscal 2006. Adobe's annual non-GAAP net income was $965.8 million in fiscal 2007, compared to $757.3 million in fiscal 2006.
 
GAAP diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2007 were $1.21, compared to $0.83 in fiscal 2006. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2007 were $1.61, compared to $1.24 in fiscal 2006.
 
Fourth Quarter GAAP Results
 
Adobe's GAAP diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 were $0.38, based on 587.9 million weighted average shares. This compares with GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.30 reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 based on 602.2 million weighted average shares, and GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.34 reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 based on 597.3 million weighted average shares. Adobe's fourth quarter GAAP earnings per share target range was $0.35 to $0.37.
 
GAAP operating income was $275.8 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $163.4 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and $255.0 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2007. As a percent of revenue, GAAP operating income in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 was 30.3 percent, compared to 23.9 percent in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and 29.9 percent in the third quarter of fiscal 2007.
 
GAAP net income was $222.2 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $183.2 million reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, and $205.2 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2007.
 
Fourth Quarter Non-GAAP Results
 
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 were $0.49. This compares with non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.33 reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.45 reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2007. Adobe's fourth quarter non-GAAP earnings per share target range was $0.46 to $0.48.
 
Adobe's non-GAAP operating income was $362.2 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $256.4 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and $340.9 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2007. As a percent of revenue, non-GAAP operating income in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 was 39.7 percent, compared to 37.6 percent in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and 40.0 percent in the third quarter of fiscal 2007.
Non-GAAP net income was $289.6 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $198.9 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, and $269.4 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2007.
 
A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided at the end of this press release.
 
Adobe Provides First Quarter and Fiscal Year 2008 Financial Targets
 
For the first quarter of fiscal 2008, Adobe announced it is targeting revenue of $855 million to $885 million. The Company is targeting a GAAP operating margin of 30 to 31 percent in the first quarter. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company is targeting a first quarter operating margin of approximately 40 percent.
 
In addition, Adobe is targeting its share count to be between 586 million and 588 million shares in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The Company also is targeting other income in its first quarter to be $15 million to $17 million, with a GAAP and non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 27 percent.
 
These targets lead to a first quarter GAAP earnings per share target range of $0.34 to $0.36. On a non-GAAP basis, the Company is targeting earnings per share of $0.44 to $0.46.
 
For fiscal year 2008, Adobe reaffirmed it is targeting annual revenue growth of approximately 13 percent. The Company is targeting a GAAP operating margin of approximately 30 percent, and a non-GAAP operating margin of approximately 39 percent.
 
A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP financial targets is provided at the end of this press release.
 
Forward-Looking Statements Disclosure
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including those related to revenue, operating margin, other income, tax rate, share count, earnings per share, and anticipated business momentum which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: delays in development or shipment of Adobe's new products or major new versions of existing products, introduction of new products by existing and new competitors, failure to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which Adobe does business,
difficulty in predicting revenue from new businesses, failure to anticipate and develop new products and services in response to changes in demand for application software and software delivery, computers, printers, or other non PC-devices, costs related to intellectual property acquisitions, disputes and litigation, inability to protect Adobe's intellectual property from unauthorized copying, use, disclosure or malicious attack, failure to realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and difficulty in integrating such acquisitions, changes to Adobe's distribution channel, disruption of Adobe's business due to catastrophic events, risks associated with international operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles, impairment of Adobe's goodwill or intangible assets, unanticipated changes in, or interpretations of, Adobe's effective tax rates, Adobe's inability to attract and retain key personnel, market risks associated with Adobe's equity investments, and interruptions or terminations in Adobe's relationships with turnkey assemblers. For further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, individuals should refer to Adobe's SEC filings.
 
The financial information set forth in this press release reflects estimates based on information available at this time. These amounts could differ from actual reported amounts stated in Adobe's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007, which the Company expects to file in January, 2008. Adobe does not undertake an obligation to update forward-looking statements.
 
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
 
Adobe revolutionizes how the world engages with ideas and information  anytime, anywhere and through any medium. For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
 
###
 
 
 2007 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe, the Adobe logo, Creative Suite and Acrobat are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands; unaudited)
 
Non-GAAP Results
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
The following table shows Adobe's non-GAAP results reconciled to GAAP results included in this release.
 
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP operating expense.
 
 
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP operating margin.
 
First Quarter and Fiscal Year 2008 Non-GAAP Financial Targets
 
The following tables show Adobe's First Quarter and Fiscal Year 2008 non-GAAP financial targets reconciled to GAAP financial targets included in this release.
 
 
 
Adobe continues to provide all information required in accordance with GAAP, but believes evaluating its ongoing operating results may not be as useful if an investor is limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures. Accordingly, Adobe uses non-GAAP financial information to evaluate its ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. Adobe's management does not itself, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Adobe presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate Adobe's operating results in a manner that focuses on what Adobe believes to be its ongoing business operations. Adobe's management believes it is useful for itself and investors to review, as applicable,  both GAAP information that includes the stock-based compensation impact of SFAS 123R and related tax impact, amortization of Macromedia stock-based compensation and related tax impact, restructuring and other charges and related tax impact, amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology and related tax impact, investment gains and losses and related tax impact, the net tax impact of the R&D tax benefit, the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes, and the non-GAAP measures that exclude
such information in order to assess the performance of Adobe's business and for planning and forecasting in subsequent periods. Whenever Adobe uses such a non-GAAP financial measure, it provides a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most closely applicable GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure as detailed above.


