FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20070126171534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported):
January 23, 2007
 
Adobe Systems Incorporated
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
345 Park Avenue
San Jose, California 95110-2704
(Address of principal executive offices and zip code)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(408) 536-6000
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 24013e-4(c))
o
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(c) On January 23, 2007, Adobe announced that Mark Garrett was named Adobe's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Garrett's employment with Adobe is expected to begin on February 1, 2007. A copy of our press release naming Mr. Garrett to the positions of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Pursuant to Mr. Garrett's Offer Letter, Mr. Garrett will receive an annual base salary of $475,000 and is eligible to receive a pro-rated bonus of up to 85% of his annual base salary upon attainment of certain Adobe and individual objectives for the 2007 fiscal year. Mr. Garrett will also receive a sign-on bonus of $100,000 upon start of employment. Mr. Garrett must reimburse Adobe for this amount, prorated for each full month worked after his hire date, should he voluntarily terminate his employment or his employment is terminated for cause within the first year after his start date.
Mr. Garrett will be granted an option to purchase 275,000 shares of Adobe common stock on February 15, 2007, at an exercise price equal to the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. Such options will vest over 4 years, with 25% of the shares vesting on the first anniversary of the grant date and the remaining shares vesting in equal monthly installments over the remaining 36 months. The option will be issued under our 2003 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and will be subject to the terms and conditions of such Plan. The Plan was previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Appendix A to Adobe's proxy statement on March 14, 2005.
As part of our 2006 Performance Share Program (the "Program"), Mr. Garrett will also be granted, on his hire date, a target award of 12,500 "Performance Shares" pursuant to the terms of the Plan. The Performance Shares will be earned, if at all, following the 2007 fiscal year, based on achievement of specific performance metrics, and will be settled in fully-vested shares of Adobe common stock. Mr. Garrett may receive less than the Performance Share target payout (including none) under the Program, and in no event may the actual payout exceed 150% of target payout. The Program was previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to Adobe's Current Report on Form 8-K on February 3, 2006. Mr. Garrett will also be eligible to participate in our 2007 Performance Share Program.
Mr. Garrett is eligible to participate in the our standard benefits package, including medical and dental plans, vision care, life insurance and disability coverage, as well as the our 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan and Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Mr. Garrett will also be eligible to participate in our Deferred Compensation Plan, effective December 2, 2006. Mr. Garrett may elect to contribute up to 75% of his base salary and 100% of other specified compensation, including bonus and performance-based restricted stock units.  Mr. Garrett will be able to elect the payment of benefits to begin on a specified date at least three years in the future in the form of a lump sum or annual installments over five to fifteen years. The Deferred Compensation Plan was previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to Adobe's Current Report on Form 8-K on September 26, 2006.
Mr. Garrett is also eligible to participate in our Executive Severance Plan in the Event of a Change of Control (the "Change of Control Plan"). Pursuant to the Change of Control Plan, if within two years after a change of control (the "Covered Period"), there is an Involuntary Termination (as defined in the Change of Control Plan) of Mr. Garrett's employment, Mr. Garrett will receive a cash severance payment as follows:
Earned but unpaid salary and the cash equivalent for accrued but unused personal time off through the date of termination; plus, the pro rata portion of the annual bonus for the year in which termination occurs (calculated on the basis of Mr. Garrett's target bonus and on the assumption that all performance targets have been or will be achieved); plus, an amount equal to the product of (i) the sum of Mr. Garrett's Reference Salary and Reference Bonus (each as defined in the Change of
Control Plan), multiplied by (ii) two plus one-twelfth for each year of completed service with Adobe (not in excess of 12 years) (the "Severance Multiple").
All of Mr. Garrett's outstanding options, performance grants and restricted stock awards will accelerate and vest 100% on the date of his Involuntary Termination during the Covered Period (except performance share unit awards, which shall continue to be governed by their current terms).  Additionally, the exercise period of all such awards will be extended to 12 months from termination.
Mr. Garrett will receive COBRA premium payments up to the legal limit for such coverage, or for the period of years equal to his Severance Multiple, whichever is less.  If Mr. Garrett becomes covered under another employer's group health plan (other than a plan which imposes a pre-existing condition exclusion which applies to Mr. Garrett) during this applicable period of COBRA continuation coverage, our COBRA premium payments will cease. The Change of Control Plan was previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to Adobe's Current Report on Form 8-K on November 16, 2006.
Adobe has entered into an indemnity agreement with Mr. Garrett, which provide, among other things, that Adobe will indemnify him, under the circumstances and to the extent provided for in the agreement, for expenses, damages, judgments, fines and settlements he may be required to pay in actions or proceedings which he is or may be made a party to by reason of his position as an officer or other agent of Adobe, and otherwise to the full extent permitted under Delaware law and our bylaws. A form of indemnity agreement was previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.25.1 to Adobe's Form  10-Q, dated May 30, 1997.
The summary of the material terms of the Offer Letter set forth above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Offer Letter, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Mr. Garrett served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Software Group of EMC Corporation, a products, services and solutions provider for information management and storage, from June 2004 to January 2007, his most recent position since EMC's acquisition of Documentum, Inc., in December 2003. Mr. Garrett first joined Documentum as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1997, holding that position through October 1999 and then re-joining Documentum as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2002. From January 2002 through July 2002, Mr. Garrett was Chief Financial Officer of Marimba, an enterprise software company. From April 2000 through December 2001, Mr. Garrett was the Chief Financial Officer at Homestead Technologies, Inc., a website design company. From November 1999 through March 2000, Mr. Garrett was the Chief Financial Officer of Fogdog Sports, an online retailer of sports apparel and equipment. Mr. Garrett holds an M.B.A. from Marist College and an undergraduate degree in both Accounting and Marketing from Boston University. Mr. Garrett is also a director of Borland Corporation, a software delivery optimization solutions provider. Mr. Garrett is 49 years old.
There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Garrett and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Garrett is to be selected as an officer of Adobe that would require disclosure under Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K. Additionally, there is no family relationship between Mr. Garrett and any other person that would require disclosure under Item 401(d) of Regulation S-K. Mr. Garrett is also not a party to any transactions that would require disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibits
(d)
        
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
January 5, 2007
Mark Garrett
Dear Mark:
On behalf of Adobe Systems Incorporated, I am pleased to offer you the position of Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, reporting to me. We recognize that employees are at the core of our success, and we look forward to having you join the other highly qualified and motivated individuals who work at Adobe.
The base compensation for this Exempt position will be $39,583.33 per month ($475,000.00 annually based).
Compensation:
Adobe inspires employees to contribute at peak performance and share in the success of the company and you will be offered the opportunity to purchase 275,000 shares of Common Stock under the Adobe Equity Incentive Plan. These shares and the price at which you would be able to purchase them are subject to the approval of the Board of Directors and to the terms of the Plan. A schedule outlining the vesting provisions is included for your information.
Stock Options:
  The proposed target award of 12,500 performance shares will vest after the completion of Adobe's fiscal year 2007 based on the achievement of specific performance metrics outlined in the attached Program Summary.  Based on achievement of the performance metrics, you could earn between 0% and 150% of your target award.
Performance Share Program:
In addition, you will also be eligible to participate in the 2007 performance share plan. Accordingly, the amount will be determined in January, 2007.
Should you accept this employment offer and join Adobe, you will receive a sign-on bonus of $100,000 (less appropriate withholding taxes), payable on the next available payroll after your hire date, unless you elect to defer any portion thereof under the Deferred Compensation Plan; you must irrevocably elect any such deferral of your sign-on bonus before your start date (see the enclosed form).  You must reimburse the Company for this amount, prorated for each full month worked after your hire date, should you voluntarily terminate your employment or your employment be terminated for cause within the first year after the start date.  You authorize Adobe to deduct any remaining sign-on bonus balance from your final paycheck.
Sign-on Bonus:
You will also qualify for an Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) bonus of up to 85% of your annual base salary per year, subject to the terms of the AIP. The AIP period for FY 2007 is defined as December 5, 2006 through the last U.S. business day in November 2007. You will be eligible to receive a prorated bonus for the remainder of the FY2007 AIP period if you remain employed by Adobe through the end of the period and
Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) Bonus:
the Company achieves its budgeted operating profit and revenue during that fiscal year and your individual goals are achieved.
: Adobe's DCP supplements the Adobe 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan by providing an additional opportunity to tax defer a portion of income. Eligible participants may defer compensation from the following sources: base salary, commissions (if applicable), quarterly profit sharing bonus, Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) bonus and Restricted Stock Unit (RSU) award. As a new employee, you may join the DCP by submitting your elections within 30 days of your employment hire date with Adobe. In addition, you may be eligible to join the DCP during the Plan's designated Open Enrollment periods.
Deferred Compensation Plan (DCP)
Upon your date of hire, you will be eligible to take advantage of our comprehensive benefits package, which includes your choice of medical and dental plans, vision care, life insurance and disability coverage as well as health care, dependent care reimbursement accounts, and much more. You may also participate in Adobe's 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan, Deferred Compensation Plan (DCP), and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). A benefit summary outlining all of our benefits is included with this offer letter.
Benefits:
You must sign the Employee Inventions and Proprietary Rights Assignment Agreement as a condition of your employment. This offer is contingent upon successful completion of a background check.
Contingencies:
This offer is also contingent upon your providing us with the information requested in the Export Control Questionnaire within seven days of receipt of this offer to allow us to determine if you require an export license. If so, this offer is contingent upon the receipt of any export license or any other approval that may be required under the United States export control laws and regulations.
In accordance with the requirements of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, you will be required to provide verification of your identity and legal right to work in the United States.
Employment with Adobe is at-will and is for no specified period and may be terminated by you or the company at any time, for any reason or no reason. This letter, along with any agreements relating to proprietary rights between you and Adobe, sets forth the terms of your employment with Adobe and supersede any prior representations or agreements, whether written or oral. This letter may not be modified or amended except by a written agreement, signed by Adobe and by you.
, 2007.
January 9
Upon acceptance of our offer, please sign and return this letter and the enclosed documents to the Human Resources Department in the envelope provided ASAP. We appreciate the prompt return of the requested documents so we will be able to have your information ready when you arrive. (In order to have your systems set up for your first day, all documents must be received 5 full business days prior to your start date.) If you have any questions regarding the details of this offer, please contact me. This offer will be valid until
To officially welcome you to Adobe, we'd like to invite you to attend Adobe's New Employee Orientation, which is held in the San Jose office each Monday from 9:30am-4:15pm.  Once we receive your signed paperwork, we'll send you a confirmation email that will outline the details of the orientation, including which day you are scheduled to attend.
Mark, welcome to the Adobe team. We're proud of the energizing culture and environment here, and are confident you will soon discover why it's simply better at Adobe. We look forward to your contributions to Adobe's ongoing success.
Sincerely,
/s/ Bruce Chizen
Bruce Chizen
Chief Executive Officer
I accept this offer and I understand that I am required to sign and return the enclosed Employee Inventions and Proprietary Rights Assignment Agreement and the Export Control Questionnaire before starting employment with Adobe Systems.
 
BC/dv
Enclosures:
Employee Input Sheet
Form W4
Employee Inventions and Proprietary Rights Assignment Agreement
Employment Eligibility Verification
Export Control Questionnaire
cc: Human Resources
 

Exhibit 99.1
Jodi Warner Adobe Systems Incorporated 408-536-2084 jwarner@adobe.com
Investor Relations Contact: Mike Saviage Adobe Systems Incorporated 408-536-4416 ir@adobe.com
Adobe Names New Chief Financial Officer
Former EMC Executive Mark Garrett to Join Adobe Executive Team
SAN JOSE, Calif.  Jan. 23, 2007 
Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today announced Mark Garrett has been named executive vice president and chief financial officer. Most recently, Garrett served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of EMC
Software Group within EMC Corporation.
Garrett brings more than 25 years of financial management experience in the technology sector.  Prior to EMC, he was executive vice president and chief financial officer of Documentum, where he was instrumental in its rapid growth and ultimate sale to EMC.  After the acquisition, he managed the financial operations of EMC's multi-billion dollar software group.
Prior to Documentum and EMC, Garrett was chief financial officer for Marimba and two privately-held startup companies.   Prior to that, he held a variety of financial management positions with Cadence Design Systems. Garrett spent the first 12 years of his career at IBM in a variety of financial positions with responsibility for financial planning, accounting and pricing analysis.
Garrett holds a master's degree in business administration from Marist College in New York and a bachelor's degree in accounting and marketing from Boston University.
Reporting to Adobe Chief Executive Officer Bruce Chizen, Garrett will start Feb. 1, 2007, assuming responsibility for the company's finance, investor relations, information services, purchasing, facilities, global supply chain management and order management operations.
"Mark brings a wealth of expertise in all aspects of finance, including extensive experience with rapidly growing software companies," said Chizen. "His strong experience, combined with his hands-on knowledge of the software industry will be an important addition to Adobe's executive management team and we look forward to his financial leadership."
Adobe revolutionizes how the world engages with ideas and information  anytime, anywhere and through any medium. For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
###
 2007 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owner.


