FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20070614161037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On June 14, 2007, Adobe issued a press release announcing its financial results for its second fiscal quarter ended June 1, 2007. A copy of this press release is furnished and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report and the exhibit attached hereto are being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
The attached press release includes non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and forecasted non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP earnings per share and non-GAAP effective tax rate for the third fiscal quarter 2007.
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. We believe that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, we use financial information that does not include: (a) the stock-based compensation impact of SFAS 123R and related tax impact; (b) amortization of Macromedia stock-based compensation and related tax impact; (c) restructuring and other charges and related tax impact; (d) amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology and related tax impact; (e) investment gains and losses and related tax impact; (f) net tax impact of the R&D tax benefit; and (g) the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes.  We use these non-GAAP financial measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and gives us a better understanding of how we should invest in research and development and fund infrastructure and go-to-market strategies.  We use these measures to help us make budgeting decisions, for example, as between product development expenses and research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate our internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.
As described above, we exclude the following items from one or more of our non-GAAP measures:
A..  These expenses consist of expenses for employee stock options and employee stock purchases under SFAS 123R. We exclude stock-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R in fiscal 2006, we did not include expenses related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases directly in our financial statements, but elected, as permitted by SFAS 123, to disclose such expenses in the footnotes to our financial statements.  As we apply SFAS 123R, we believe that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of SFAS 123R to our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  While stock-based compensation expense calculated in accordance with SFAS 123R constitutes an ongoing and recurring expense, such expense is excluded from non-GAAP results because it is not an expense that typically requires or will require cash settlement by us and because such expense is not used by us to assess the core profitability of our business operations. We further believe these measures are useful to investors in that they allow for greater transparency to certain line items in our financial statements.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates comparisons to our competitors' operating results.
            Stock compensation impact of SFAS 123R and related tax impact
 
B..  We are amortizing stock-based compensation related to unvested options assumed in connection with our acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005. The stock-based compensation is expected to be fully amortized by the end of fiscal 2007.  We exclude these items because these expenses are non-cash in nature and because the non-GAAP financial measures which exclude this item provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance, liquidity, and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  We further believe that excluding this expense is useful to investors in that it allows for greater transparency to certain line items in our financial statements.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates our internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to our competitors' operating results.
            Amortization of Macromedia stock-based compensation and related tax impact
C..  We incurred Board of Director approved restructuring charges associated with realigning our business upon the acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005.  These actions were taken to eliminate certain duplicative activities, focus our resources on future growth opportunities and reduce our cost structure.  In connection with the worldwide restructuring plan, we recognized costs related to termination benefits for former Adobe employees whose positions were eliminated and for the closure of Adobe facilities.  We also recognized costs related to the cancellation of certain contracts held by us.  We exclude these items because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.  It is possible, however, that additional charges related to our facility leases may be incurred for various reasons including changes in cost estimates, the date the facility is vacated, subtenant leases, etc.
            Restructuring and other charges and related tax impact
D..  We incur amortization of purchased intangible assets primarily in connection with our acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005. Purchased intangibles include (a) developed technology and (b) core technology and patents. Developed technology relates primarily to Macromedia products across all of Macromedia product lines that had reached technological feasibility as of December 2005. Core technology and patents represent primarily a combination of Macromedia's processes, patents and trade secrets developed through years of experience in design and development of its products. We expect to amortize for accounting purposes the fair value of the purchased intangibles based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible assets will be consumed as revenue is generated.  Although, the intangible assets generate revenue for us, we exclude this item because this expense is non-cash in nature and because we believe the non-GAAP financial measures excluding this item provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates our internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to our competitors' operating results. We also incurred charges related to (i) incomplete technology in connection with certain small acquisitions and (ii) prior activity in connection with a technology license arrangement. We exclude these items because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
            Amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology and related tax impact
E..  We incur investment gains and losses on the sale and exchange of equity securities that are held directly and also indirectly through investment partnerships. We do not actively trade publicly-held securities nor do we rely on these securities positions for funding our ongoing operations.  We exclude gains and losses and the related tax impact on these equity securities because these items are unrelated to our ongoing business and operating results.
             Investment gains and losses and related tax impact
F.             In the first quarter of 2007, we realized a one time tax benefit due to the reenactment of the Federal Research and Development tax credit, which was retroactively extended to January 1, 2006.  The impact of this law change was reflected in our first quarter fiscal year 2007 tax provision as a discrete item related to the tax credit for fiscal year 2006.  We excluded this item because this tax benefit is not reflective of ongoing results and has no direct correlation to the operation of our business.
Net tax impact of the R&D Tax Benefit.
 
G.. Excluding the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes assists investors in understanding the tax provision associated with those adjustments and the effective tax rate related to our ongoing operations.
            Effective Tax Rate
We believe that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our financial results in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures and that is why we qualify the use of non-GAAP financial information in a statement when non-GAAP information is presented.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)     Exhibits
99.1         Press release dated June 14, 2007
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Investor Relations Contact: Mike Saviage Adobe Systems Incorporated 408-536-4416 ir@adobe.com
Public Relations Contact: Holly Campbell Adobe Systems Incorporated 408-536-6401
campbell@adobe.com
Adobe Reports Record Revenue
17 Percent Revenue Growth Driven by Strong Creative Suite 3 and Acrobat Performance
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  June 14, 2007
 Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today reported financial results for its second quarter of fiscal 2007 ended June 1, 2007.  Adobe achieved record revenue of $745.6 million, compared to $635.5 million reported for the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and $649.4 million reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2007.  This represents 17 percent year-over-year revenue growth.  Adobe's second quarter revenue target range was $700 to $740 million.
"Q2 was a strong quarter, driven by the record performance of both our Creative Suite products and Acrobat," said Bruce Chizen, chief executive officer of Adobe. "Assuming continued business momentum, we expect to exceed our original fiscal year revenue and profit targets."
GAAP Results
Adobe's GAAP diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 were $0.25, based on 603.4 million weighted average shares. This compares with GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.20 reported in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 based on 613.8 million weighted average shares, and GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.24 reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 based on 604.2 million weighted average shares. Adobe's second quarter GAAP earnings per share target range was $0.23 to $0.26.
GAAP operating income was $180.4 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $147.9 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and $146.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2007.  As a percent of revenue, GAAP operating income in the second quarter of fiscal 2007 was 24.2 percent, compared to 23.3 percent in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and 22.5 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
GAAP net income was $152.5 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $123.1 million reported in the second quarter of fiscal 2006, and $143.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
 
Non-GAAP Results
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 were $0.37.  This compares with non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.31 reported in the second quarter of fiscal 2006, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.30 reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2007.  Adobe's second quarter non-GAAP earnings per share target range was $0.34 to $0.36.
Adobe's non-GAAP operating income was $282.1 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $243.1 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and $223.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2007.  As a percent of revenue, non-GAAP operating income in the second quarter of fiscal 2007 was 37.8 percent, compared to 38.3 percent in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and 34.5 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
Non-GAAP net income was $223.2 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2007, compared to $189.4 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2006, and $183.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided at the end of this press release.
Adobe Provides Third Quarter Financial Targets
For the third quarter of fiscal 2007, Adobe announced it is targeting revenue of $760 million to $800 million.  The Company also is targeting a GAAP operating margin of approximately 27 to 28 percent.  On a non-GAAP basis, the Company is targeting an operating margin of approximately 39 percent.
In addition, Adobe is targeting its share count to be between 607 million and 609 million shares.  The Company also is targeting other income to be approximately $21 million to $22 million, with a GAAP tax rate of approximately 25 to 26 percent and a non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 26 to 27 percent.
These targets lead to a GAAP earnings per share target range of approximately $0.28 to $0.31.  On a non-GAAP basis, the Company is targeting earnings per share of approximately $0.39 to $0.41.
A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP targets is provided at the end of this press release.
Forward Looking Statements Disclosure
This press release contains forward looking statements, including those related to revenue, operating margin, other income, tax rate, share count, earnings per share, and anticipated business momentum which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: delays in development or shipment of Adobe's new products or major new versions of existing products, introduction of new products by existing and new competitors, failure to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which Adobe does business, difficulty in predicting revenue from new businesses, failure to anticipate and
2
 
develop new products in response to changes in demand for application software, computers, printers, or other non PC-devices, costs related to intellectual property acquisitions, disputes and litigation, inability to protect Adobe's intellectual property from unauthorized copying, use, disclosure or malicious attack, failure to realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and difficulty in integrating such acquisitions, changes to Adobe's distribution channel, disruption of Adobe's business due to catastrophic events, risks associated with international operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles, impairment of Adobe's goodwill or intangible assets, unanticipated changes in, or interpretations of, Adobe's effective tax rates, Adobe's inability to attract and retain key personnel, market risks associated with Adobe's equity investments, and interruptions or terminations in Adobe's relationships with turnkey assemblers. For further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, individuals should refer to Adobe's SEC filings.  The financial information set forth in this press release reflects estimates based on information available at this time.  These amounts could differ from actual reported amounts stated in Adobe's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the second quarter ended June 1, 2007, which the Company expects to file in July, 2007.  Adobe does not undertake an obligation to update forward looking statements.
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
Adobe revolutionizes how the world engages with ideas and information  anytime, anywhere, and through any medium.  For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
 
###
 
 2007 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe, Acrobat, Creative Suite and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
3
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
 
 
4
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
 
5
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands; unaudited)
 
 
6
 
Non-GAAP Results
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
The following table shows Adobe's non-GAAP results reconciled to GAAP results included in this release.
 
7
 
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP operating expense for the quarters ended June 1, 2007, June 2, 2006, and March 2, 2007.
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP operating margin for the quarter ended June 1, 2007, June 2, 2006, and March 2, 2007.
The following table shows the Company's reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP effective tax rate for the quarter ended June 1, 2007.
 
8
Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2007 Non-GAAP Financial Targets
The following tables show Adobe's non-GAAP financial targets reconciled to GAAP financial targets included in this release.
Adobe continues to provide all information required in accordance with GAAP, but believes evaluating its ongoing operating results may not be as useful if an investor is limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures.  Accordingly, Adobe uses non-GAAP financial information to evaluate its ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes.  Adobe's management does not itself, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Adobe presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate Adobe's operating results in a manner that focuses on what Adobe believes to be its ongoing business operations.  Adobe's management believes it is useful for itself and investors to review, as applicable,  both GAAP information that includes the stock-based compensation impact of SFAS 123R and related tax impact, amortization of Macromedia stock-based compensation and related tax impact, restructuring and other charges and related tax impact, amortization of purchased intangibles and incomplete technology and related tax impact, investment gains and losses and related tax impact, the net tax impact of the R&D
9
tax benefit, the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes, and the non-GAAP measures that exclude such information in order to assess the performance of Adobe's business and for planning and forecasting in subsequent periods.  Whenever Adobe uses such a non-GAAP financial measure, it provides a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most closely applicable GAAP financial measure.  Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure as detailed above.
 
10


