FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20081216161049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On December 16, 2008, Adobe issued a press release announcing financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended November 28, 2008. A copy of this press release is furnished and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this report and the exhibit attached hereto are being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
 
The attached press release includes non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP effective income tax rate, and forecasted non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP earnings per share.
 
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. We believe that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
 
For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, we use non-GAAP financial measures, net of the related tax impacts, that exclude: (A) stock-based and deferred compensation expenses; (B) restructuring charges; (C) amortization of purchased intangibles, technology license arrangements and incomplete technology; (D) the resolution of an income tax audit, (E) the R&D tax benefit (F) investment gains and losses; and (G) the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes.  We use these non-GAAP financial measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and give us a better understanding of how we should invest in research and development and fund infrastructure and go-to-market strategies.  We use these measures to help us make budgeting decisions, for example, as between product development expenses and research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate our internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.
 
As described above, we exclude the following items from one or more of our non-GAAP measures:
 
.  Stock-based compensation expense consists of charges for employee stock options, restricted stock units and performance shares and employee stock purchases under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123  revised 2004 ("SFAS 123R") including the amortization of stock-based compensation related to unvested options assumed in connection with our acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R in fiscal 2006, we did not include stock-based compensation expense directly in our financial statements, but elected, as permitted by SFAS 123, to disclose such expense in the footnotes to our financial statements.  As we apply SFAS 123R, we believe that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of SFAS 123R to our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  Although stock-based compensation expense is calculated in accordance with SFAS 123R and constitutes an ongoing and recurring expense, such expense is excluded from non-GAAP results because it is not an expense that typically requires or will require cash settlement by us and because such expense is not used by us to assess the core profitability of our business operations. Deferred compensation expense consists of charges associated with movements in our liability related to our deferred compensation plan. Although deferred compensation expense constitutes an ongoing and recurring expense, such expense is excluded from non-GAAP results because it is not an expense that typically requires current cash settlement by us and because such expense is not used by us to assess the core profitability of our business operations. We further believe these measures are
A.
                                  
Stock-based and deferred compensation expenses and related tax impact
useful to investors in that they allow for greater transparency to certain line items in our financial statements.  In addition, excluding these items from various non-GAAP measures facilitate comparisons to our competitors' operating results.
 
.  In November 2008, we incurred restructuring charges associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognized costs related to termination benefits for former Adobe employees whose positions were eliminated. We also incurred restructuring charges associated with realigning our business upon the acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005 (the "Macromedia Restructuring"). The actions in the Macromedia Restructuring were taken to eliminate certain duplicative activities, focus our resources on future growth opportunities and reduce our cost structure.  In connection with the Macromedia Restructuring, we recognized costs related to termination benefits for former Adobe employees whose positions were eliminated, the closure of Adobe facilities and the cancellation of certain contracts held by us.  We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
B.
                                    
Restructuring charges and related tax impact
 
.  We incur amortization of purchased intangible assets primarily in connection with our acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005. Purchased intangibles include (i) developed technology and (ii) core technology and patents. Developed technology relates primarily to Macromedia products across all of Macromedia product lines that had reached technological feasibility as of December 2005. Core technology and patents represent primarily a combination of Macromedia's processes, patents and trade secrets developed through years of experience in design and development of its products. We expect to amortize for accounting purposes the fair value of the purchased intangibles based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible assets will be consumed as revenue is generated.  Although the intangible assets generate revenue for us, we exclude this item because this expense is non-cash in nature and because we believe the non-GAAP financial measures excluding this item provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates our internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to our competitors' operating results. We also incurred charges related to (i) amortization of purchased intangible assets and incomplete technology in connection with certain small acquisitions and (ii) prior activity in connection with certain technology license arrangements. We exclude these items because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
C.
                                    
Amortization of purchased intangibles, technology license arrangements and incomplete technology and related tax impact
 
In the third quarter of 2008, we realized a one-time tax benefit as a result of the resolution of an income tax audit for fiscal years 2001 through 2004.  We have excluded this item because this tax benefit is unrelated to our ongoing business and operating results.
D.
                                   
Income tax effect of the resolution of an income tax audit. 
 
In the first quarter of 2007, Adobe realized a one-time tax benefit due to the reenactment of the Federal Research and Development tax credit, which was retroactively extended to January 1, 2006.  The impact of this law change was reflected in our first quarter fiscal year 2007 tax provision as a discrete item related to the tax credit for fiscal year 2006.  Adobe has excluded this item because this tax benefit is not reflective of ongoing results and has no direct correlation to the operation of Adobe's business.
E.
                                     
Net tax impact of the R&D Tax Benefit.
 
.  We incur investment gains and losses principally from realized gains or losses from the sale and exchange of marketable equity investments, other-than-temporary declines in the value of marketable and non-marketable equity securities (including those associated with our deferred compensation plan assets) and gains and losses on the sale of equity securities held indirectly through investment partnerships. We do not actively trade publicly-held securities nor do we rely on these securities positions for funding our ongoing operations.  We exclude gains and losses and the related tax impact on these equity securities because these items are unrelated to our ongoing business and operating results.
F
.
                                     
Investment gains and losses and related tax impact
 
. Excluding the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes assists investors in understanding the tax provision associated with those adjustments and the effective tax rate related to our ongoing operations.
G.
                                    
Income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes
We believe that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our financial results in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures and that is why we qualify the use of non-GAAP financial information in a statement when non-GAAP information is presented.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Exhibits
(d)
        
 
Press release issued on December 16, 2008 entitled "Adobe Reports Record Quarterly and Annual Revenue."
99.1
            
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Adobe Reports Record Quarterly and Annual Revenue
 
 
Company Achieves 13 Percent Annual Growth
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  December 16, 2008 
Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today reported financial results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended November 28, 2008.
 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, Adobe achieved record revenue of $915.3 million, compared to $911.2 million reported for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and $887.3 million reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2008.  The Company's reported fourth quarter revenue was slightly above the preliminary revenue range of $912 million to $915 million it provided on December 3, 2008.
 
"Despite a difficult economic environment in 2008, we were able to achieve record revenue and double digit growth for the sixth consecutive year," said Shantanu Narayen, president and CEO. "In addition, our consistent execution and disciplined expense management enabled us to significantly exceed our profit targets.  Although we expect 2009 will be a challenging year, we remain excited about the long term market trends driving our business, and are confident we will emerge from the current recession stronger than ever."
 
Adobe Reports Record Annual Revenue in Fiscal Year 2008
 
In fiscal year 2008, Adobe achieved record revenue of $3.580 billion, compared to $3.158 billion in fiscal 2007.  On a year-over-year basis, annual revenue grew 13 percent and was in line with the growth target the Company provided at the outset of the year.
 
Adobe's annual GAAP net income was $871.8 million in fiscal 2008, compared to $723.8 million in fiscal 2007.  Adobe's annual non-GAAP net income was $1.136 billion in fiscal 2008, compared to $965.8 million in fiscal 2007.
 
GAAP diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2008 were $1.59, compared to $1.21 in fiscal 2007.  Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2008 were $2.07, compared to $1.61 in fiscal 2007.
 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2008 GAAP Results
 
Adobe's GAAP diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 were $0.46, based on 534.9 million weighted average shares. This compares with GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.38 reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 based on 587.9 million weighted average shares, and GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.35 reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 based on 541.3 million weighted average shares.
 
GAAP operating income was $273.2 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, compared to $275.8 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and $219.5 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2008.  As a percent of revenue, GAAP operating income in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 was 29.8 percent, compared to 30.3 percent in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and 24.7 percent in the third quarter of fiscal 2008.
 
GAAP net income was $245.9 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, compared to $222.2 million reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and $191.6 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2008.
 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2008 Non-GAAP Results
 
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 were $0.60.  This compares with non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.49 reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.50 reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2008.
 
Adobe's non-GAAP operating income was $374.9 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, compared to $362.2 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and $351.9 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2008.  As a percent of revenue, non-GAAP operating income in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 was 41.0 percent, compared to 39.7 percent in both the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and the third quarter of fiscal 2008.
 
Non-GAAP net income was $320.9 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, compared to $289.6 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and $269.1 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2008.
 
Reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided at the end of this press release.
 
First Quarter Fiscal 2009 Financial Targets
 
For the first quarter of fiscal 2009, Adobe reaffirmed the financial targets that it previously provided on December 3, 2008.  The Company is targeting Q1 revenue of $800 million to $850 million, an operating margin of 26 to 28 percent on a GAAP basis, and an operating margin of 37 to 38 percent on a non-GAAP basis.
 
In addition, Adobe is targeting its share count to be between 530 million and 534 million shares in the first quarter.  The Company also is targeting non-operating income to be between $3 million and $5 million.  Adobe's GAAP and non-GAAP tax rates are expected to be approximately 24 percent.
 
These targets lead to a first quarter diluted earnings per share target range of $0.30 to $0.35 on a GAAP basis, and an earnings per share target range of $0.43 to $0.47 on a non-GAAP basis.
 
Reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP financial targets is provided at the end of this press release.
 
Forward-Looking Statements Disclosure
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including those related to revenue, operating income, operating margin, non-operating income, tax rate, share count, earnings per share, business momentum and long-term market trends, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which Adobe does business, failure to develop, market and distribute new products or upgrades to existing products that meet customer requirements, introduction of new products and business models by existing and new competitors, failure to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, difficulty in predicting revenue from new businesses, costs related to intellectual property acquisitions, disputes and litigation, inability to protect Adobe's intellectual property from third-party infringers, use, disclosure or malicious attack, failure to realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and difficulty in integrating such acquisitions, failure to manage Adobe's sales and distribution channels effectively, disruption of Adobe's business due to catastrophic events, risks associated with international operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles, impairment of Adobe's goodwill or intangible assets, unanticipated changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations, Adobe's inability to attract and retain key personnel, impairment of Adobe's investment portfolio due to further deterioration of the capital markets, market risks associated with Adobe's equity investments, and interruptions or terminations in Adobe's relationships with turnkey assemblers. For further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, individuals should refer to Adobe's SEC filings.
 
The financial information set forth in this press release reflects estimates based on information available at this time.  These amounts could differ from actual reported amounts stated in Adobe's Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended November 28, 2008, which the Company expects to file in January 2009.  Adobe does not undertake an obligation to update forward-looking statements.
 
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
 
Adobe revolutionizes how the world engages with ideas and information  anytime, anywhere and through any medium. For more information, visit .
www.adobe.com
 
###
 
 
 2008 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
 
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands; unaudited)
 
 
Non-GAAP Results
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
The following tables show Adobe's non-GAAP results reconciled to GAAP results included in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter Fiscal Year 2009 Non-GAAP Financial Targets
(In millions, except per share data)
 
The following tables show the Company's first quarter fiscal year 2009 non-GAAP financial targets reconciled to GAAP financial targets included in this release.
 
 
Adobe continues to provide all information required in accordance with GAAP, but believes evaluating its ongoing operating results may not be as useful if an investor is limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures.  Accordingly, Adobe uses non-GAAP financial information to evaluate its ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes.  Adobe's management does not itself, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Adobe presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate Adobe's operating results in a manner that focuses on what Adobe believes to be its ongoing business operations.  Adobe's management believes it is useful for itself and investors to review, as applicable,  both GAAP information that includes the stock-based and deferred compensation impact, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangibles, technology license arrangements and incomplete technology, the resolution of an income tax audit, R&D tax benefit, investment gains and losses, and the related tax impact of all of these items, the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes, and the non-GAAP measures that exclude such information in order to assess the performance of Adobe's business and for planning and forecasting in subsequent periods.  Whenever Adobe uses such a non-GAAP financial measure, it provides a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most
 
closely applicable GAAP financial measure.  Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure as detailed above.


