FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20081203171104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
j
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On December 3, 2008, Adobe issued a press release related to its fourth fiscal quarter ended November 28, 2008. A copy of this press release is furnished and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this report and the exhibit attached hereto are being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
 
The attached press release includes non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and forecasted non-GAAP operating margin.
 
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. We believe that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
 
For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, we use non-GAAP financial measures, net of the related tax impacts, that exclude: (A) stock-based and deferred compensation expenses; (B) restructuring charges; (C) amortization of purchased intangibles, technology license arrangements and incomplete technology; (D) investment gains and losses; and (E) the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes.  We use these non-GAAP financial measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and give us a better understanding of how we should invest in research and development and fund infrastructure and go-to-market strategies.  We use these measures to help us make budgeting decisions, for example, as between product development expenses and research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate our internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.
 
As described above, we exclude the following items from one or more of our non-GAAP measures:
 
A..  Stock-based compensation expense consists of charges for employee stock options, restricted stock units and performance shares and employee stock purchases under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123  revised 2004 ("SFAS 123R") including the amortization of stock-based compensation related to unvested options assumed in connection with our acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R in fiscal 2006, we did not include stock-based compensation expense directly in our financial statements, but elected, as permitted by SFAS 123, to disclose such expense in the footnotes to our financial statements.  As we apply SFAS 123R, we believe that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of SFAS 123R to our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  Although stock-based compensation expense is calculated in accordance with SFAS 123R and constitutes an ongoing and recurring expense, such expense is excluded from non-GAAP results because it is not an expense that typically requires or will require cash settlement by us and because such expense is not used by us to assess the core profitability of our business operations. Deferred compensation expense consists of charges associated with movements in our liability related to our deferred compensation plan. Although deferred compensation expense constitutes an ongoing and recurring expense, such expense is excluded from non-GAAP results because it is not an expense that typically requires current cash settlement by us and because such expense is not used by us to assess the core profitability of our business operations. We further believe these measures are useful to investors in that they allow for greater transparency to certain line items in our financial statements.  In addition, excluding these items from various non-GAAP measures facilitate comparisons to our competitors' operating results.
            Stock-based and deferred compensation expenses and related tax impact
 
B..  In November 2008, we incurred restructuring charges associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognized costs related to termination benefits for Adobe employees whose positions are being eliminated. We also incurred restructuring charges associated with realigning our business upon the acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005 (the "Macromedia Restructuring"). The actions in the Macromedia Restructuring were taken to eliminate certain duplicative activities, focus our resources on future growth opportunities and reduce our cost structure.  In connection with the Macromedia Restructuring, we recognized costs related to termination benefits for former Adobe employees whose positions were eliminated, the closure of Adobe facilities and the cancellation of certain contracts held by us.  We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
            Restructuring charges and related tax impact
 
C..  We incur amortization of purchased intangible assets primarily in connection with our acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005. Purchased intangibles include (i) developed technology and (ii) core technology and patents. Developed technology relates primarily to Macromedia products across all of Macromedia product lines that had reached technological feasibility as of December 2005. Core technology and patents represent primarily a combination of Macromedia's processes, patents and trade secrets developed through years of experience in design and development of its products. We expect to amortize for accounting purposes the fair value of the purchased intangibles based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible assets will be consumed as revenue is generated.  Although the intangible assets generate revenue for us, we exclude this item because this expense is non-cash in nature and because we believe the non-GAAP financial measures excluding this item provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates our internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to our competitors' operating results. We also incurred charges related to amortization of purchased intangible assets and incomplete technology in connection with certain small acquisitions.  We exclude this item because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
            Amortization of purchased intangibles, technology license arrangements and incomplete technology and related tax impact
 
D.  We incur investment gains and losses principally from realized gains or losses from the sale and exchange of marketable equity investments, other-than-temporary declines in the value of marketable and non-marketable equity securities (including those associated with our deferred compensation plan assets) and gains and losses on the sale of equity securities held indirectly through investment partnerships. We do not actively trade publicly-held securities nor do we rely on these securities positions for funding our ongoing operations.  We exclude gains and losses and the related tax impact on these equity securities because these items are unrelated to our ongoing business and operating results.
.            Investment gains and losses and related tax impact
 
E.             . Excluding the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes assists investors in understanding the tax provision associated with those adjustments and the effective tax rate related to our ongoing operations.
Income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes
 
We believe that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our financial results in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures and that is why we qualify the use of non-GAAP financial information in a statement when non-GAAP information is presented.
 
Item 2.05
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
 
On December 3, 2008, we announced a workforce reduction to allow for continued investment in strategic growth areas (the "Restructuring Plan"). As a result, we expect to eliminate approximately 600 full-time positions worldwide. We expect to record in the aggregate approximately $44.0 to $50.0 million in pre-tax restructuring charges associated with this Restructuring Plan. Included in these charges are (i) approximately $10.0 to $13.0 million primarily related to the consolidation of leased facilities and (ii) approximately $34.0 to $37.0 million related to employee severance arrangements. We expect to record approximately $28.0 to $30.0 million of these charges in the fourth fiscal quarter ended November 28, 2008. We expect to complete the majority of the activities
related to the Restructuring Plan by the end of fiscal 2009. Substantially all of these charges will result in cash expenditures. A copy of the press release announcing this information and certain other information is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this filing.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)   Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Adobe Provides Preliminary Q4 Fiscal 2008 Results
 
Company Announces Restructuring to Reduce Expenses; Provides Q1 FY2009 Targets
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  Dec. 3, 2008 
Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today provided preliminary financial results for its fourth quarter ended November 28, 2008.
 
Based on preliminary Q4 financial information, Adobe believes it will achieve fourth quarter fiscal 2008 revenue in the range of $912 million to $915 million.  The Company also believes it will achieve GAAP diluted earnings per share in the range of $0.45 to $0.46, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in the range of $0.59 to $0.60.  The GAAP and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share estimates include two favorable tax items:  a current quarter catch-up related to the reinstatement of the U.S. research and development credit and a favorable tax court settlement, which increased Q4 estimated GAAP and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share ranges by approximately $0.05.
 
Adobe's fourth quarter revenue target range was $925 million to $955 million, and its fourth quarter diluted earnings per share target ranges were $0.39 to $0.41 on a GAAP basis, and $0.51 to $0.53 on a non-GAAP basis.  A reconciliation of preliminary GAAP and non-GAAP financial results is available later in this press release.
 
"The global economic crisis significantly impacted our revenue during the fourth quarter," said Shantanu Narayen, president and chief executive officer. "We have taken action to reduce our operating costs and fine-tune the focus of our resources on key strategic priorities."
 
The Company cited weaker-than-expected demand for its new Creative Suite 4 family of products that began shipping in Q4 in North America and Europe as the main cause for the shortfall in fourth quarter revenue.
 
A
dobe also announced the implementation of a restructuring program, and has taken steps to reduce its headcount by approximately 600 full-time positions globally.  The restructuring will result in anticipated pre-tax charges totaling approximately $44 million to $50 million.   The Company expects approximately $28 million to $30 million of the restructuring charges to be recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008.
 
Adobe also provided initial financial targets for its first quarter of fiscal year 2009.   The Company stated it is targeting Q1 revenue of $800 million to $850 million.   In addition, the Company said it is targeting a Q1 GAAP
operating margin range of 26% to 28%, and a Q1 non-GAAP operating margin range of 37% to 38%.  A reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP financial targets is available later in this press release.
 
The Company will discuss its quarterly and full-year results as well as its Q1 financial targets and the restructuring program on its Q4 and fiscal year 2008 earnings conference call that is scheduled for December 16, 2008.
 
Forward-Looking Statements Disclosure
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including those related to revenue, earnings per share,  operating margin, business momentum, the anticipated size of Adobe's restructuring, the expected timing of the completion of the restructuring and the estimated charges associated with such restructuring, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which Adobe does business, delays in development or shipment of Adobe's new products or major new versions of existing products, introduction of new products and business models by existing and new competitors, failure to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, failure to anticipate and develop new products and services in response to changes in demand for application software and software delivery, computers, printers, or other non PC-devices, difficulty in predicting revenue from new businesses, costs related to intellectual property acquisitions, disputes and litigation, inability to protect Adobe's intellectual property from third-party infringers, use, disclosure or malicious attack, failure to realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions and difficulty in integrating such acquisitions, failure to manage Adobe's sales and distribution channels effectively, disruption of Adobe's business due to catastrophic events, risks associated with international operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles, impairment of Adobe's goodwill or intangible assets, unanticipated changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations, Adobe's inability to attract and retain key personnel, impairment of Adobe's investment portfolio due to further deterioration of the capital markets, market risks associated with Adobe's equity investments, and interruptions or terminations in Adobe's relationships with turnkey assemblers. For further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, individuals should refer to Adobe's SEC filings.
 
The financial information set forth in this press release reflects estimates based on information available at this time.  These amounts could differ from actual reported amounts stated in Adobe's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2008 earnings report on December 16, 2008, and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended November 28, 2008, which the Company expects to file in January 2009.  Adobe does not undertake an obligation to update forward-looking statements.
 
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
 
Adobe revolutionizes how the world engages with ideas and information  anytime, anywhere and through any medium. For more information, visit .
www.adobe.com
 
###
 
 2008 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe, Creative Suite and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Non-GAAP Results and Targets
(In millions, except per share data)
 
The following table reconciles Adobe's preliminary fourth quarter fiscal year 2008 non-GAAP results with preliminary GAAP results included in this release.
 
 
The following table shows the Company's fourth quarter fiscal year 2008 non-GAAP financial targets reconciled to GAAP financial targets included in this release.
 
The following table shows the Company's first quarter fiscal year 2009 non-GAAP financial targets reconciled to GAAP financial targets included in this release.
 
 
Adobe continues to provide all information required in accordance with GAAP, but believes evaluating its ongoing operating results may not be as useful if an investor is limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures.  Accordingly, Adobe uses non-GAAP financial information to evaluate its ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes.  Adobe's management does not itself, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Adobe presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate Adobe's operating results in a manner that focuses on what Adobe believes to be its ongoing business operations.  Adobe's management believes it is useful for itself and investors to review, as applicable,  both GAAP information that includes stock-based and deferred compensation expense, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangibles, technology license arrangements and incomplete technology, investment gains and losses and the related tax impact of these items, the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes, and the non-GAAP measures that exclude such information in order to assess the performance of Adobe's business and for planning and forecasting in subsequent periods.  Whenever Adobe uses such a non-GAAP financial measure, it provides a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most closely applicable GAAP financial measure.  Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure as detailed above.


