FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20080130162053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                                   
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                                   
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                                   
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
                                   
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(e)
                                 
2008 Performance Share Program
 
Effective January 24, 2008, the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of Adobe Systems Incorporated (the "Company") adopted the Form of Performance Share Program (the "Program") under the terms of the Company's 2003 Equity Incentive Plan.  The Committee established the Program to help focus key employees on achieving specific performance goals, reinforce a team orientation, provide significant award potential for achieving outstanding performance, and enhance the ability of the Company to attract and retain highly talented and competent individuals.  All members of the Company's executive management team and other key members of senior management have been selected by the Committee to participate in the Program.   The Committee granted awards for the selected participants under the Program on January 24, 2008 in the form of a "Maximum Award" (as defined below) of "Performance Shares" pursuant to the terms of the Company's 2003 Equity Incentive Plan.
 
The Program requires that the Company achieve established performance goals as an initial threshold in order to earn any Performance Shares under the Program; if the initial threshold is met, the Program then provides for the calculation of the Performance Shares actually earned.
 
For 2008, the initial threshold and performance goals are set, including metrics that determine the actual number of Performance Shares earned, in the 2008 Award Calculation Methodology adopted as part of the Program.  The Award Calculation Methodology requires that the Company achieve at least 90% of the GAAP revenue target approved by the Board of Directors under the annual operating plan as a minimum performance threshold before participants may earn any Performance Shares under the Program.  If the initial threshold is not achieved, all participants forfeit their entire award.  If this initial threshold is achieved, the actual number of Performance Shares earned by each participant is equal to 200% of his or her target incentive amount (the "Maximum Award"), subject to reduction based on the level of achievement of two non-GAAP metrics  non-GAAP operating profit (adjusted to reflect shippable backlog) and non-GAAP revenue growth  (including shippable backlog).  The actual number of Performance Shares earned will correlate to the Company's 2008 fiscal year-end achievement for each metric. The Maximum Award will be reduced to zero if the Company does not achieve at least 90% of its budgeted operating profit and 95% of its budgeted revenue for fiscal year 2008.
 
Performance Shares will be earned (if at all) upon certification by the Committee of actual performance achievement following the Company's 2008 fiscal year-end, subject to specified change of control exceptions.  In addition, as a condition to earning any part of the Maximum Award, a participant must be employed by the Company through the first anniversary of the grant date to be eligible.
 
Earned Performance Shares will vest 25% on the certification date of the achievement of the applicable metrics by the Committee, or the first anniversary of the grant date, whichever is later.  Thereafter, the earned Performance Shares are subject to time-based vesting and will vest as to 25% of the total number of earned Performance Shares each year on the second, third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date, contingent upon the participant's continued service to the Company.
 
The target awards and Maximum Awards for the Performance Shares granted to the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other named executive officers on January 24, 2008 are as follows:
 
A participant may receive less than his or her target award, and in no event may an actual payout exceed the Maximum Award.
 
The description of the Program contained herein is a summary of the material terms of the Program, does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Program used in connection with the 2003 Equity Incentive Plan. A copy of the Form of Performance Share Program is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1, the Form of Award Grant Notice and Performance Share Award Agreement for use in connection with grants under this Program are attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2, and the 2008 Award Calculation Methodology is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3.
 
2008 Executive Officer Annual Incentive Plan
 
On January 24, 2008, the Committee approved the terms of the 2008 Executive Officer Annual Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), which is applicable to executive officers of the Company.  Pursuant to the Plan, each participant is eligible to receive an incentive bonus calculated as a percentage of the executive's base salary.
 
The Plan requires that the Company achieve at least 90% of the GAAP revenue target approved by the Board of Directors under the annual operating plan as a minimum performance threshold before participants may earn any incentive bonus under the Plan.  If the initial threshold is not achieved, all participants forfeit their entire award.  If this initial threshold is achieved, each participant is eligible to earn a maximum bonus (the "Maximum Bonus") equal to 200% of such participant's annual bonus target, up to a maximum of $5 million, subject to reduction as described below.  The actual bonus earned by each participant is calculated as a percentage of a Board of Directors-approved target bonus, up to the Maximum Bonus.
 
For fiscal year 2008, the target bonus and Maximum Bonus expressed as a percentage of annual base salary for the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other named executive officers are as follows:
 
 
The Maximum Bonus for each participant is subject to reduction based on the Company's achievement, as determined under a matrix, of established non-GAAP revenue growth (including shippable backlog) and non-GAAP operating profit (adjusted to reflect shippable backlog).  We call the results of these two metrics, expressed as a percentage, the "Corporate Result."  The Maximum Bonus is reduced to zero if the Company does not achieve at least 90% of the operating profit target and at least 95% of the revenue target.  If these minimum levels are achieved, the Corporate Result percentage is 27%. The maximum Corporate Result percentage is 200%.
 
The Maximum Bonus is also subject to reduction based on each individual's achievement of specified corporate and individual strategic objectives.  We call the results of these individual metrics, expressed as a percentage, the "Individual Achievement."  The Individual Achievement percentage may not exceed 100%.
The Corporate Result and Individual Achievement are used in the calculation of the actual bonus payable under the Plan if the Corporate Result determined pursuant to the matrix is less than or equal to 100%, as follows:
 
 
If the Corporate Result exceeds 100%, the Committee, in consultation with our Chief Executive Officer, determines an alternate percentage, referred to as the "Unit Multiplier," which replaces the Corporate Result in calculating the actual bonus payable under the Plan.  The maximum Unit Multiplier is 200% and the minimum Unit Multiplier is 100%.  The Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer, will determine the Unit Multiplier for each business and functional unit of the Company based on that unit's contributions to the Company's results during fiscal year 2008 and the aggregate target incentive bonuses payable under the Plan for that year. The resulting percentage is the Unit Multiplier specific to that particular business or functional unit of the Company.  The actual bonus payable under the Plan is then calculated, as follows:
 
 
The description of the Plan contained herein is a summary of the material terms of the Plan, does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Plan summary. A copy of the Plan summary is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.4.
 
Executive Severance Plan in the Event of a Change of Control
 
On January 24, 2008, the Committee approved the following amendments to the Company's Executive Severance Plan in the Event of a Change of Control (the "Severance Plan") to: (i) allow for the full vesting of Performance Shares upon the involuntary termination of employment after a qualifying change of control for Performance Shares granted on or after January 24, 2008; (ii) comply with the new requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, including the delayed payment of benefits to any key employees of the Company as determined pursuant to Section 409A; (iii) provide for the greatest after-tax benefit for a participant if an amount payable under the Severance Plan constitutes a parachute payment; (iv) require a release of claims by a participant before any payments are made under the Severance Plan; and (v) include certain other related clarifying amendments.
 
The description of the amendments to the Severance Plan contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Severance Plan. A copy of the amended and restated Severance Plan is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.5.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
1.
                                     
Purpose.
  The Adobe Systems Incorporated [       ] Performance Share Program (the "Program"), established under the Adobe Systems Incorporated 2003 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), is intended to provide equity incentive compensation to individuals who make a significant contribution to the performance of Adobe Systems Incorporated (the "Company").  Program objectives are to:  (i) focus key Employees on achieving specific performance targets, (ii) reinforce a team orientation, (iii) provide significant award potential for achieving outstanding performance, and (iv) enhance the ability of the Company to attract and retain highly talented and competent individuals.
 
2.
                                     
Definitions.
 
Defined terms not explicitly defined in this Program but defined in the Plan shall have the same definitions as in the Plan.
 
(a)
                                 
"Actual Award"
means the number of shares of Stock credited to a Designated Participant under the Program during a Performance Period based on achievement of applicable Performance Goals and Other Performance Goals.
 
(b)
                                 
"Board"
means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
(c)
                                 
"Certification Date"
means the date on which the Committee certifies whether the Performance Goals have been met under the Performance Award Formula and whether any reductions in the Maximum Awards should be made
on account of the degree of achievement of the Other Performance Goals.
 
(d)
                                 
"Committee"
means a committee of one or more members of the Board appointed by the Board pursuant to the Plan; provided, however, that for purposes of administering the Plan with respect to Designated Participants who are or may be deemed "covered employees" (as defined for purposes of Section 162(m) of the  Code), the "Committee" shall be composed of two or more members of the Board, each of whom is an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
(e)
                                 
"Disability"
means, with respect to a Designated Participant, the inability of such Designated Participant to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, as provided in Section 22(e)(3) and 409A(a)(2)(c)(i) of the Code.
 
(f)
                                   
"Designated Participant"
means a key Employee of the Company or any other Participating Companywho is designated by the Committee in writing to participate in the Program.
 
(g)
                                
"Maximum Award"
means the maximum number of shares of Stock that may be credited to a Designated Participant under the Program in respect of a specified Performance Period if the applicable Performance Goals are achieved at the levels set by the Committee during the applicable
 
 
Performance Period and the Designated Participant continues to render Service to the Company or any other Participating Company during the entire Performance Period.
 
(h)
                                
"Other Performance Goal"
means a performance goal established by the Committee that is not a Performance Goal established pursuant to Section 9.3 of the Plan.
 
(i)
                                   
"Performance Period"
means the period of time selected by the Committee over which the attainment of one or more Performance Goals will be measured for the purpose of determining a Designated Participant's right to an Actual Award.  At the discretion of the Committee, a Performance Period may be divided into shorter periods (for example, fiscal years of the Company) over which the attainment of one or more Performance Goals will be measured.
 
3.
                                     
How Awards Are Earned Under the Program.
 
(a)
                                 
General Program Description.
  The Program provides the opportunity for certain key Employees to earn shares of Stock based on the performance of the Company.  In general, the Committee will select certain key Employees to participate in the Program at the beginning of a Performance Period.  Upon selection to participate in the Program, each such Designated Participant will be granted a Maximum Award equal to the number of shares of Stock that will be represented by an Actual Award to such Designated Participant  if (i) specified levels of applicable Performance Goals are achieved during the Performance Period, (ii) the Committee does not reduce the Maximum Award on account of the degree of achievement of applicable Other Performance Goals, and (iii) the Designated Participant continues to render Service to the Company or any other Participating Company during the entire Performance Period and any subsequent additional vesting period.  If the Committee does reduce the Maximum Award on account of the degree of achievement of applicable Other Performance Goals, the Designated Participant will be awarded a portion (or none) of the shares of Stock subject to the Maximum Award; that (i) if the specified level of Performance Goals is not achieved during the Performance Period, the Designated Participant will not receive any shares of Stock, and (ii) the maximum number of shares of Stock that a Designated Participant may receive as an Actual Award will in no event exceed the Maximum Award.  The methodology for the operation of the Program in terms of establishing the Maximum Award based on the levels of achievement of the Performance Goals and the determination of whether the Maximum Award, or some portion of it, will become payable to a Designated Participant as an Actual Award in respect of a Performance Period is set forth in the attached .  As required by Section 5.4(b)(iii) of the Plan and in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code, in no event may a Maximum Award be granted to a Designated Participant such that the number of shares of Stock that could be earned by such Designated Participant as an Actual Award would exceed two hundred thousand (200,000) shares of Stock for each full fiscal year of the Company contained in the Performance Period for such Actual Award.
provided, however,
Exhibit A
 
(b)
                                 
Designated Participants.
  Each key Employee of the Company or any other Participating Company who is designated by the Committee in writing for participation in the Program for a particular Performance Period shall be eligible for a Maximum Award with respect to such Performance Period.  The Committee may designate a key Employee who commences Service after the beginning of a particular Performance Period as eligible to receive a prorated Maximum Award for such Performance Period.  The determination as to whether an individual is a Designated Participant shall be made by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and such determination shall be binding and conclusive on all persons.
 
No Employee shall have any right to be a Designated Participant in the Program, to continue as a Designated Participant, or to be granted a Maximum Award or Actual Award under the Program.  The Company is not obligated to give uniform treatment (., number of shares subject to
e.g
 
 
Maximum Awards) to Employees or Designated Participants under the Program.  Participation in the Program as to a particular Performance Period does not convey any right to participate in the Program as to any other Performance Period.
 
(c)
                                 
Performance Goals and Other Performance Goals.
  The Performance Goals for a particular Performance Period and Other Performance Goals, if applicable, and their relative weights, will be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion. The Committee also may establish, in its sole discretion, Performance Goals and Other Performance Goals for annual, quarterly or other periods within the applicable Performance Period.  The Performance Goals and Other Performance Goals for a Performance Period or for shorter periods within a Performance Period are not required to be identical to the Performance Goals and Other Performance Goals for any other Performance Period or shorter period within a Performance Period.  The Committee may establish Performance Goals and Other Performance Goals for the Company that differ from those established for one or more other Participating Companies and may establish different Performance Goals and Other Performance Goals for each Designated Participant or for groups of Designated Participants.
 
4.
                                     
Other Program Provisions.
 
(a)
                                 
Distribution of Actual Awards. 
Assessment of actual performance, determination of Actual Awards and the distribution of shares of Stock in respect of Actual Awards will be subject to (i) certification by the Committee that the applicable Performance Goals and other terms of the Program have been met, (ii) the Committee's determination as to the appropriate reductions, if any, in the amounts of the Maximum Awards in arriving at the amounts of the Actual Awards, based on the levels of achievement of applicable Other Performance Goals, and (iii) the completion of any subsequent additional vesting period.  Unless an Actual Award provides otherwise, shares of Stock that are credited to a Designated Participant as an Actual Award will be distributed to the Designated Participant (or the Designated Participant's heirs in the case of death) within thirty (30) days following the applicable vesting date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company has provided a Designated Participant with a plan or program by which to defer distribution of such shares of Stock and the Designated Participant has made an effective election to defer such distribution under such plan or program, such shares will be distributed to the Designated Participant (or the Designated Participant's heirs in the case of death) in accordance with such election.  The Company shall withhold shares of Stock otherwise deliverable to the Designated Participant in satisfaction of any federal, state or local tax withholding obligation relating to the delivery of Stock under the Actual Award, but the Company shall not withhold a number of shares with a fair market value in excess of the applicable tax withholdings determined by application of the minimum required statutory rates.
 
(b)
                                 
Employment and Termination.
  In order to receive shares of Stock in respect of an Actual Award under the Program, a Designated Participant must continue to render Service to the Company or any other Participating Company during the entire Performance Period, and for any subsequent additional vesting period, except as otherwise provided under the terms of the applicable award agreement.
 
(c)
                                 
No Employment or Service Rights.
  Nothing in the Program or any instrument executed or Award granted pursuant to the Program shall (i) confer upon any Employee or Designated Participant any right to continue to be retained in the employ or service of the Company or any other Participating Company, (ii) change the at-will employment relationship between the Company or any other Participating Company and an Employee or Designated Participant, or (iii) interfere with the right of the Company or any other Participating Company to discharge any Employee, Designated Participant or other person at any time, with or without cause, and with or without advance notice.
 
 
A.
                                   
Program Administration.
  The Committee shall be responsible for all decisions and recommendations regarding Program administration and retains final authority regarding all aspects of Program administration, the resolution of any disputes, and application of the Program in any respect to a Designated Participant.  All determinations and interpretations made by the Committee in good faith shall not be subject to review by any person and shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons.  The Committee may, without notice, amend, suspend or terminate the Program; that no such action may adversely affect any then outstanding Award unless (i) expressly provided by the Committee and (ii) with the consent of the Participant, unless such action is necessary to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule.
provided, however,
 
B.
                                   
Stockholder Rights.
 
No Designated Participant shall be deemed to be the holder of, or to have any of the rights of a holder with respect to, any shares of Stock subject to a Maximum Award (including, without limitation, the right to receive dividends) unless and until such Designated Participant has received an Actual Award under the Program, has vested in the shares subject to the Actual Award and has received delivery of such shares; that a plan or program by which receipt of shares of Stock in respect of an Actual Award may be deferred may provide for the crediting of dividend equivalent rights.
provided, however,
 
(d)
                                 
Validity.
  If any provision of the Program is held invalid, void, or unenforceable, the same will not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other provision of the Program.
 
(e)
                                 
Governing Plan Document
.
  The Program is subject to all the provisions of the Plan and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted by the Committee, the Board or the Company pursuant to the Plan.  In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Program and those of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
Adobe Systems Incorporated (the ), pursuant to its [      ] Performance Share Program (the ) under its 2003 Equity Incentive Plan (the ), hereby awards to Participant the award (the "") set forth below.  This Award is subject to all of the terms and conditions as set forth herein and in the Performance Share Award Agreement, the Program and the Plan, all of which are attached hereto and incorporated herein in their entirety.  Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan or the Program, as applicable.
"Company"
"Program"
"Plan"
Award
 
 
On the Certification Date, and provided that (i) the specified level of applicable Performance Goals is attained during the Performance Period and (ii) Participant continues to render Service to the Company or any other Participating Company through the Certification Date, the Company shall credit Participant with an Actual Award representing the number of shares of Stock (which may be equal to all or a portion (including none) of the Maximum Award) as determined by the Committee based on the degree of achievement of the Other Performance Goals set forth on to the Program and the limitations set forth in Section 5 of the Performance Share Award Agreement.
Determination of Actual Award: 
Exhibit A
 
The Actual Award shall vest as to 1/4th of the shares of Stock subject to the Actual Award on the later of (i) the Certification Date and (ii) the one year anniversary of the [           ] (the ""), and thereafter as to 1/4 of the shares of Stock subject to the Actual Award on each of the second, third and fourth anniversaries of the [           ] (each such date, a ""), so that the Actual Award will be fully vested as of the fourth anniversary of the Vesting Commencement Date; that the Participant continues to render Service to the Company or any other Participating Company through each such vesting date.
Vesting Schedule: 
First Vesting Date
th
Vesting Date
provided, however,
 
:  Subject to the limitations contained herein and the provisions of the Plan and the Program, the Company shall deliver to the Participant the vested shares of Stock subject to the Actual Award as provided in Section 3 of the Performance Share Award Agreement.
Delivery of Shares
 
  The undersigned Participant acknowledges receipt of, and understands and agrees to, this Award Grant Notice, the Performance Share Award Agreement, the Program and the Plan.  Participant further acknowledges that as of the Date of Grant, this Award Grant Notice, the Performance Share Award Agreement, the Program, and the Plan set forth the entire understanding between Participant and the Company regarding the Award and supersede all prior oral and written agreements on that subject, with the exception of the Adobe Systems Incorporated Executive Severance Plan in the Event of a Change of Control and/or the individual written retention agreement in effect on the Date of Grant between the Company and the Participant, to the extent applicable to the Participant (such documents, the "").  This Award is a "performance share unit" for purposes of the Superseding Agreements.
Additional Terms/Acknowledgements:
Superseding Agreements
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the Award Grant Notice () and this Performance Share Award Agreement (), Adobe Systems Incorporated (the ) has awarded you, pursuant to its [       ] Performance Share Program (the ) under its 2003 Equity Incentive Plan (the ), the Maximum Award as indicated in the Grant Notice.  Unless otherwise defined herein or in the Grant Notice, capitalized terms shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan or the Program, as applicable.
"Grant Notice"
"Award Agreement"
"Company"
"Program"
"Plan"
 
The details of your Award are as follows.
 
5.
                                     
ENTITLEMENT TO SHARES.
 
(a)
                                 
Determination of Actual Award
.
 
(i)
                                   
Generally
.  Provided that (i) the specified level of applicable Performance Goals is achieved during the Performance Period and (ii) you continue to render Service to the Company or any other Participating Company through the Certification Date, then, subject to the limitations contained herein and to the provisions of the Program and the Plan, you shall be credited with an Actual Award on the Certification Date equal to all or a portion (including none) of the Maximum Award, with a reduction from the Maximum Award determined by the Committee based on the degree of achievement of the Other Performance Goals set forth on to the Program and, as applicable, based on any reduction pursuant to Section 5 of this Award Agreement.  If the Committee does reduce the Maximum Award on account of the degree of achievement of Other Performance Goals, you will be credited with a portion (or none) of the shares of Stock subject to the Maximum Award; that (i) if a specified level of Performance Goals (including all Other Performance Goals) is not achieved during the Performance Period, you will not be credited with or receive any shares of Stock as an Actual Award, and (ii) the maximum number of shares of Stock for which you may be credited as an Actual Award will in no event exceed the Maximum Award.
Exhibit A
provided, however,
 
(ii)
                               
Change of Control
.
  If a Change of Control occurs prior to the Certification Date, and provided you continue to render Service to the Company or any other Participating Company until immediately prior to the Change of Control, then, as of immediately prior to the Change of Control, you shall be credited with a pro-rated Actual Award on such date equal to that number of shares of Stock subject to the Target Award multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months of Service (rounded up for any partial months and subject to reduction pursuant to Section 5) you provided in the Performance Period as of immediately prior to the Change of Control (but in no event shall you be credited with more than the number of months in the Performance Period) and the denominator of which is the number of months in the Performance Period.
 
(b)
                                 
Vesting
.  The Actual Award shall be subject to vesting in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth on the Grant Notice, subject to such acceleration as provided in Section 1(c) of this Award Agreement or Superseding Agreement, as applicable.
 
(c)
                                 
Disability or Death
.
 
(i)
                                   
If your Service terminates prior to the Certification Date by reason of death or Disability, you (or your heirs in the case of death) will be credited with a pro-rated Actual Award equal to that number of shares of Stock that you would have been credited with pursuant to Section 1(a) had you remained in Service through the applicable date set forth in Section 1(a), with pro-ration based on the number of months of Service (rounded up for any partial months of Service and subject to reduction pursuant to Section 5) you provided in the Performance Period prior to your termination (but in no event shall you be credited with more than the
 
number of months in the Performance Period).  For clarification, if the Actual Award is determined pursuant to Section 1(a)(ii), the Actual Award will not be pro-rated twice.  You will be deemed to have vested in that 1/4th of the shares of Stock subject to the Actual Award that would have vested on the First Vesting Date.
 
(ii)
                               
If your Service terminates on or after the Certification Date, you will be deemed to have vested in that 1/4th of the shares of Stock subject to the Actual Award that would have vested on the next Vesting Date (which may be the First Vesting Date if the Certification Date occurs prior to the first anniversary of the Vesting Commencement Date).
 
(iii)
                           
The shares of Stock subject to an Actual Award that vest pursuant to this Section 1(c) shall be issued and delivered to you (or your heirs in the case of death) pursuant to Section 3 below.
 
6.
                                     
DIVIDENDS
.
 Except as provided in Section 6 below, you shall not receive or be credited with any payment or other adjustment in the number of shares subject to the Actual Award for cash dividends that may be made in respect of the shares of Stock to which your Actual Award relates unless and until, and only to the extent, such Actual Award has vested.
 
7.
                                     
DELIVERY OF SHARES
.  Subject to Sections 4 and 12 of this Award Agreement, the Company shall issue and deliver to you
(or your heirs in the case of death) the certificates representing the shares of Stock subject to a vested Actual Award (the ) within thirty (30) days following the applicable vesting date.  If you elect to defer delivery of the shares of Stock as provided in Section 4 of this Award Agreement, shares of Stock will be issued and delivered to you on the date or dates that you elect on your deferral election form.  The Certificates shall be in such form as is determined by the Company.  No shares of Stock shall be issued prior to vesting.
"Certificates"
 
8.
                                     
DEFERRAL ELECTION.
  If permitted by the Company to do so, you may elect to defer receipt of the shares of Stock that would otherwise be issued pursuant to the vesting of your Award in accordance with the terms and conditions, including the applicable eligibility requirements, of the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan.  The Board (or an appropriate committee thereof) will, in its sole discretion, establish the rules and procedures for such deferrals.
 
9.
                                     
EFFECT OF LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
  Unless otherwise required by law, if you have taken in excess of thirty (30) days of leaves of absence during a Performance Period, your Actual Award shall be prorated on the basis of the number of days of Service during the Performance Period during which you were not on a leave of absence.
 
10.
                              
NUMBER OF SHARES
.  The number of shares of Stock subject to your Award will be adjusted from time to time for capitalization adjustments, as provided in Section 4.2 of the Plan.
 
11.
                              
SECURITIES LAW COMPLIANCE
. 
The grant of your Award and the issuance of any shares of Stock pursuant to an Actual Award shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state or foreign law with respect to such securities.  You may not be issued any shares of Stock pursuant to an Actual Award if the issuance of shares of Stock would constitute a violation of any applicable federal, state or foreign securities laws or other law or regulations or the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed.  In addition, you may not be issued any shares of Stock pursuant to an Actual Award unless (i) a registration statement under the Securities Act shall at the time of issuance be in effect with respect to the shares of Stock or (ii) in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the shares of Stock may be issued in accordance with the terms of an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.  YOU ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE SHARES OF STOCK MAY NOT BE ISSUED UNLESS THE FOREGOING CONDITIONS ARE SATISFIED.  The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares of Stock pursuant to an Actual Award shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.  As a condition to the issuance of any shares of Stock pursuant to an Actual Award, the Company may require you to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
 
 
12.
                              
RESTRICTIVE LEGENDS.
  The shares of Stock issued pursuant to an Actual Award shall be endorsed with appropriate legends, if any, determined by the Company.
 
13.
                              
TRANSFERABILITY.
  Your Award and any unvested shares of Stock subject to the Actual Award are not transferable, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, by delivering written notice to the Company, in a form satisfactory to the Company, you may designate a third party who, in the event of your death, shall thereafter be entitled to receive any distribution of shares of Stock pursuant to Section 3 of this Award Agreement.
 
14.
                              
AWARD NOT A SERVICE CONTRACT
.  Your Award is not an employment or service contract, and nothing in your Award shall be deemed to create in any way whatsoever any obligation on your part to continue in the service of the Company or the Participating Company Group, or on the part of the Company or Participating Company Group to continue such service.  In addition, nothing in your Award shall obligate the Company or the Participating Company Group, their respective stockholders, boards of directors, Officers or Employees to continue any relationship that you might have as an Employee, Director or Consultant for the Company or the Participating Company Group.
 
15.
                              
UNSECURED OBLIGATION
.  Your Award is unfunded, and you shall be considered an unsecured creditor of the Company with respect to the Company's obligation, if any, to issue shares of Stock pursuant to an Actual Award under this Award Agreement.  You shall not have voting or any other rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to the Stock acquired pursuant to this Award Agreement until such Stock is issued to you pursuant to this Award Agreement.  Upon such issuance, you will obtain full voting and other rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to the Stock so issued.  Nothing contained in this Award Agreement, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between you and the Company or any other person.
 
16.
                              
WITHHOLDING OBLIGATIONS. 
Regardless of any action taken by the Company or the Participating Company Group with respect to any or all income, employment, social insurance, or payroll taxes, payment on account or other tax-related withholding (), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items legally due by you is and remains your responsibility and that the Company and Participating Company Group (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of your Award, the subsequent sale of shares of Stock acquired pursuant to an Actual Award, or the receipt of any dividends and (ii) does not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any other aspect of your Award to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items.  At the time any Actual Award is determined, at the time you vest in such Actual Award, at the time you receive a distribution of shares of Stock pursuant to such Actual Award, or at any other time reasonably as requested by the Company or the Participating Company Group, you shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Participating Company Group to satisfy all withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group.  In this regard, at the time you receive a distribution of shares of Stock pursuant to an Actual Award, or at any other time as reasonably requested by the Company or the Participating Company Group, you hereby authorize the withholding of that number of whole vested shares of Stock otherwise deliverable to you pursuant to an Actual Award under this Award Agreement having a fair market value not in excess of the amount of the Tax-Related Items determined by the applicable minimum statutory rates.  Finally, you shall pay to the Company or Participating Company Group (as applicable) any amount of the Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Participating Company Group may be required to withhold as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company and the Participating Company Group shall have no obligation to deliver shares of Stock until you have satisfied the obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this section.
""
Tax-Related Items
 
17.
                              
NATURE OF AWARD.
  In accepting your Award, you acknowledge that:
 
(a)
                                 
the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company; it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan, Program and this Award Agreement;
 
 
(b)
                                 
the grant of your Award is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of Awards, or benefits in lieu of Awards, even if Awards have been granted repeatedly in the past;
 
(c)
                                 
all decisions with respect to future Awards under the Plan, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee;
 
(d)
                                 
your participation in the Plan shall not create a right to further employment with the Company or the Participating Company Group and shall not interfere with any ability of the Company or the Participating Company Group to terminate your employment relationship at any time with or without cause;
 
(e)
                                 
you are voluntarily participating in the Plan;
 
(f)
                                   
an Award is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments;
 
(g)
                                
in the event that you are not an employee of the Company, your Award will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company; and furthermore, your Award will not be interpreted to form an employment contract with the other members of the Participating Company Group;
 
(h)
                                
the future value of the shares of Stock subject to your Award is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and
 
(i)
                                   
no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from termination of your Award or diminution in value of your Award or shares of Stock issued pursuant to an Actual Award resulting from termination of your Service with the Company or the Participating Company Group (for any reason whether or not in breach of applicable labor laws), and you irrevocably release the Company and the Participating Company Group from any such claim that may arise.  If, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen then, by executing the Grant Notice, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such a claim.
 
18.
                              
DELIVERY OF DOCUMENTS AND NOTICES.
  Any document relating to participating in the Plan or Program and/or notice required or permitted hereunder shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given (except to the extent that this Award Agreement provides for effectiveness only upon actual receipt of such notice) upon personal delivery, electronic delivery, or upon deposit in the U.S. Post Office or foreign postal service, by registered or certified mail, with postage and fees prepaid, addressed to the other party at the e-mail address, if any, provided for you by the Company or a Participating Company or at such other address as such party may designate in writing from time to time to the other party.
 
(a)
                                 
Description of Electronic Delivery
.
  The Plan and Program documents, which may include but do not necessarily include the Plan prospectus, Grant Notice, Award Agreement, Certificates, and U.S. financial reports of the Company, may be delivered to you electronically.  Such means of delivery may include but do not necessarily include the delivery of a link to a Company intranet or the internet site of a third party involved in administering the Plan, the delivery of the document via e-mail or such other delivery determined at the Committee's discretion
.
 
(b)
                                 
Consent to Electronic Delivery.
  You acknowledge that you have read Section 14 of this Award Agreement and consent to the electronic delivery of the Plan and Program documents, as described in Section 14 of this Award Agreement.  You acknowledge that you may receive from the Company a paper copy of any documents delivered electronically at no cost if you contact the Company by telephone, through a postal service or electronic mail at equity@adobe.com.  You further acknowledge that you will be provided with a paper copy of any documents delivered electronically if electronic delivery fails; similarly, you
understand that you must provide the Company or any designated third party with a paper copy of any documents delivered electronically if electronic delivery fails.  Also, you understand that your consent may be revoked or changed, including any change in the
 
electronic mail address to which documents are delivered (if you have provided an electronic mail address), at any time by notifying the Company of such revised or revoked consent by telephone, postal service or electronic mail at equity@adobe.com.  Finally, you understand that you are not required to consent to electronic delivery.
 
19.
                              
DATA PRIVACY CONSENT
. 
You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this document by and among the members of the Participating Company Group for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan and Program.
 
You understand that the Company and the Participating Company Group hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of Stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all Awards or any other entitlement to shares of Stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan and Program ("").  You understand that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan or Program, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.  You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative.  You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom you may elect to deposit any shares of Stock pursuant to an Actual Award.  You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan.  You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative.  You understand, however, that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan or Program.  For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.
Data
 
20.
                              
APPLICATION OF SECTION 409A.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, to the extent that (i) one or more of the payments or benefits received or to be received by a Participant pursuant to this Award Agreement would constitute deferred compensation subject to the requirements of Code Section 409A, and (ii) you are a "specified employee" within the meaning of Code Section 409A, then such payment or benefit (or portion thereof) will be delayed until the earliest date following your "separation from service" with the Participating Company Group within the meaning of Code Section 409A on which the Company can provide such payment or benefit to you without your incurrence of any additional tax or interest pursuant to Code Section 409A, with all payments or benefits due thereafter occurring in accordance with the original schedule.  In addition, this Award and the payments and benefits to be provided hereunder are intended to comply in all respects with the applicable provisions of Code Section 409A.
 
21.
                              
HEADINGS.
  The headings of the Sections in this Award Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute a part of this Award Agreement or to affect the meaning of this Award Agreement.
 
22.
                              
AMENDMENT. 
The Committee may, without notice, amend, suspend or terminate the Program; that no such action may adversely affect any then outstanding Award unless (i) expressly provided by the Committee and (ii) with the consent of you, unless such action is necessary to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule.
provided, however,
 
23.
                              
MISCELLANEOUS
.
 
(a)
                                 
The rights and obligations of the Company under your Award shall be transferable to any one or more persons or entities, and all covenants and agreements hereunder shall inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by the Company's successors and assigns.
 
 
(b)
                                 
You agree upon request to execute any further documents or instruments necessary or desirable in the sole determination of the Company to carry out the purposes or intent of your Award.
 
(c)
                                 
You acknowledge and agree that you have reviewed your Award in its entirety, have had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing and accepting your Award and fully understand all provisions of your Award.
 
24.
                              
GOVERNING PLAN DOCUMENT
.  Your Award is subject to all the provisions of the Plan and Program, the provisions of which are hereby made a part of your Award, and is further subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations which may from time to time be promulgated and adopted pursuant to the Plan or Program.  In the event of any conflict between the provisions of your Award and those of the Plan or Program, the provisions of the Plan or Program shall control.  In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Plan or Program, the provisions of the Plan shall control.
 
25.
                              
APPLICABLE LAW.
  This Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California as such laws are applied to agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed entirely within the State of California.
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
OBJECTIVES:
 
drive growth and accountability, drive execution of long-term strategy and operating plan, motivate and inspire employees to contribute at peak performance.
To
 
PURPOSE:
 
As part of the total compensation program, Adobe has designed an Annual Incentive Plan for its 2008 fiscal year for certain executive officers. This Executive Annual Incentive Plan ("AIP") operates under, and is part of, the Adobe Systems Incorporated Executive Cash Performance Bonus Plan, which has been approved by Adobe's Board of Directors and stockholders.
 
ELIGIBILITY:
 
Executive officers of the Company who are employed (full time or part time) during the full eligibility period (fiscal year) and who are regular employees of Adobe at the end of the eligibility period, are eligible to participate in the AIP. If an executive officer is hired after the beginning of the AIP eligibility period and the Committee determines that such executive should be eligible to earn compensation under the AIP, the executive officer's target bonus will be pro-rated based on the officer's length of service in the AIP eligibility period  If the executive officer's salary and/or AIP target bonus changes during the AIP eligibility period, the officer will be eligible for a pro-rated bonus under the AIP.  The pro-rated bonus will be based on the number of days in the AIP period with the former AIP target bonus/salary and the number of days in the AIP eligibility period with the new AIP target bonus/salary.  Except as provided in an applicable severance plan in the event of a change of control or an individual retention agreement with an executive, if the executive's employment terminates before the end of the AIP eligibility period, the executive will not be eligible for a bonus payment, or any portion of a bonus payment.  If an executive is on a leave of absence for the entire AIP eligibility period, the executive is not eligible for an AIP bonus.  If a leave of absence is more than 4 months, the target bonus is pro-rated based on time worked during the AIP eligibility period; if the leave of absence is 4 months or less, the target bonus is not pro-rated.
 
EMPLOYEES COVERED BY INTERNAL REVENUE CODE SECTION 162(M):
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing eligibility provisions, to the extent it determines to be necessary or desirable to achieve full deductibility of bonus compensation awarded under the AIP, the Committee, in its sole discretion, (i) may exclude from participation under the AIP those individuals who are or who may likely be "covered employees" under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Section 162(m)") whose employment in an eligible position commenced after the Committee established the Threshold Goal (described below), which generally will be a date not later than the 90 day of the AIP eligibility period, and (ii) may not pro-rate such individuals' bonuses under the AIP to reflect increases in AIP target bonuses during the AIP eligibility period.
th
 
HOW THE AIP WORKS
 
INCENTIVE BONUS TARGET:
 
A target percentage of base pay is designated for each eligible participant.  Each participant's incentive bonus target is then calculated as a percentage of annual base pay.  For example, a Senior Vice President whose target percentage is 60% and whose annual base pay is $400,000 would have an annual bonus target of $240,000 ($400,000 x 60%).
 
If the Threshold Goal (described below) has been attained, Adobe calculates how well the Company (Adobe Systems Incorporated, together with its group of subsidiary companies) has performed against its budgeted operating profit and revenue for the year.  The Company must achieve greater than 90% of its budgeted non-GAAP operating profit (adjusted to reflect additional operating profit from ending shippable backlog) and 95% of its budgeted non-GAAP revenue (including shippable backlog), each based on the annual consolidated budget approved by Adobe's Board of Directors at the beginning of the fiscal year, in order for eligible executives to earn any bonus under the AIP.  If the Company attains less than either of those targets, eligible executives will receive no bonus under the AIP.
 
AIP THUS HAS FOUR COMPONENTS:
 
Threshold Goal, Corporate Result, Unit Multiplier and Individual Achievement
 
THRESHOLD GOAL:
 
The Committee established an objective, non-discretionary Company performance goal for the AIP eligibility period based on one of the criteria approved by the Company's shareholders in 2006 (the "Threshold Goal").  If the Company achieves the Threshold Goal, each executive who participates in the AIP is then eligible to earn a maximum bonus ("Maximum Award") under the AIP equal to 200% of such executive's annual bonus target, up to a maximum of $5 million.  Under the AIP for 2008, the Threshold Goal is a minimum of 90% achievement against the Company's budgeted annual operating plan GAAP revenue.  No bonuses will be earned or payable under the AIP unless this Threshold Goal is achieved.  If this Threshold Goal is achieved, each executive's bonus under the AIP  is then determined based on a formula that multiplies the executive's annual bonus target  (1) by either the Corporate Result or the Unit Multiplier (the applicable percentage, which  in no event may exceed 200%  corresponding to the Maximum Award percentage, is described below) and  (2) by that executive's Individual Achievement (which in no event may exceed 100%).  Thus, the actual bonus payable to an executive under the AIP may never exceed the Maximum Award, and the effect of the Corporate Result or the Unit Multiplier and the executive's Individual Achievement potentially is to reduce the bonus earned as a result of the Company's achievement of the Threshold Goal from the Maximum Award to the actual bonus payable.
 
:
CORPORATE RESULT
 
In addition to establishing the Threshold Goal, the Committee established two additional corporate goals, which together form the "Corporate Result." The Corporate Result is a percentage that is calculated under a matrix.  The Corporate Result measures Adobe's achievement against its budgeted non-GAAP revenue target (adjusted to reflect shippable backlog), and Adobe's achievement in containing costs, as determined by reference to its achievement against its budgeted non-GAAP operating profit target (adjusted to reflect additional operating profit from ending shippable backlog).
 
The Corporate Result percentage is zero, and each Executive's Maximum Award is reduced to zero,  unless the Company achieves at least 90% of the its budgeted non-GAAP operating profit and 95% of its budgeted non-GAAP revenue.  If these minimum levels are achieved, the Corporate Result is 27%.  The maximum Corporate Result percentage is 200%, corresponding to the Maximum Award percentage.  The matrix used to calculate the actual Corporate Result is attached as Exhibit A.  The Corporate Result is used instead of the Unit Multiplier in the calculation of  the actual bonus payable under the AIP  if the Corporate Result determined under the matrix is less than or equal to 100%.
UNIT MULTIPLIER:
 
If the Corporate Result exceeds 100%, the Committee in consultation with the CEO determines an additional percentage (the "Unit Multiplier") that expresses each business unit's and functional unit's contribution toward the Company's success during the AIP eligibility period and that replaces the Corporate Result in calculating the actual bonus payable under the AIP.  The maximum Unit Multiplier is 200%, corresponding to the Maximum Award percentage, and the minimum Unit Multiplier is 100%.  The Unit Multiplier is determined as follows:
 
The Committee in consultation with the CEO determines the product of (1) the Corporate Result and (2) the sum of the dollar value of all AIP participants' target incentive bonuses (the "Aggregate Corporate Result"  expressed as a dollar amount).
1.
             
 
The Committee in consultation with the CEO allocates the Aggregate Corporate Result among each of Adobe's business and functional units based on the relative contribution by each such business and functional unit to the Company's success in the AIP eligibility period (such allocated amount, the "Unit Allocation").
2.
             
 
For each unit, the Committee in consultation with the CEO then divides the Unit Allocation by the sum of the dollar value of the aggregate participant target bonuses within the particular unit.    The resulting percentage is the Unit Multiplier for that unit.
3.
             
 
INDIVIDUAL ACHIEVEMENT:
 
The Committee in consultation with the CEO determines each participant's individual achievement multiplier (expressed as a percentage not to exceed 100%, the "Individual Achievement") based on that executive's achievement of certain goals selected for such executive at the beginning of the AIP eligibility period from 3-5 categories of goals.  The categories are as follows:  Revenue (BUs); Product Roadmap (BUs only); Strategic Objectives; People Management; Expense Management.  The weighting of goals will be largely discretionary within fixed guidelines.  For business units, the Revenue, Product Roadmap, and Strategic Objectives must, in the aggregate, total 85%; People Management 10%; and Expense Management 5%.  For functional units and those business units with no Revenue or Product Roadmap component, 85% of Individual Achievement will be tied to one or more Strategic Objectives tied to the operating plan
 
ADMINISTRATION:
 
AIP bonuses are paid on an annual basis approximately 45-60 days after fiscal year-end.  A 5% reduction will be applied to the AIP bonus otherwise earned by any executive who fails to meet the annual performance appraisal submission deadline.  Participation in the AIP is at the discretion of the Committee, in consultation with Company management.  The Company reserves the right to interpret and to make changes to or withdraw the AIP at any time, subject to applicable legal requirements.  All terms and conditions of the AIP are subject to compliance with applicable law.
 
 
 
*Does not apply because Unit Multiplier is in effect in this example.

Exhibit 10.5
Adobe Systems Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the "Company") has adopted this Executive Severance Plan (the "Plan"), effective as of December 12, 2006, for the benefit of certain key employees of the Participating Company Group.  The Plan was amended effective January 24, 2008 for compliance with Code Section 409A.
 
The Company considers it essential to the best interests of its stockholders to take reasonable steps to retain its key management personnel.  Further, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") recognizes that the uncertainty and questions which might arise among management in the context of a Change of Control of the Company could result in the departure or distraction of management personnel to the detriment of the Company and its stockholders.
 
The Board has determined, therefore, that appropriate steps should be taken to reinforce and encourage the continued attention and dedication of its members of management of the Company to their assigned duties without distraction in the face of potentially disturbing circumstances arising from any possible Change of Control of the Company.
 
The Company hereby adopts this Executive Severance Plan In the Event of a Change of Control for the benefit of its employees who are eligible as provided in the Plan.
 
Section 1.               .
Definitions
 
1.1           "" shall mean KPMG LLP or, if such firm is unable or unwilling to perform the calculations required under this Plan, such other national accounting firm as shall be designated by agreement between the Participant to whom Section 4.1 applies and the Company.
Accounting Firm
 
1.2           "" shall have the meaning in the applicable Performance Share Program, as amended by Section 3.4 below.
Actual Award
 
1.3           "" means the Participant's annual base salary as in effect during the last regularly scheduled payroll period immediately preceding such Participant's Date of Termination.  Base Salary does not include any bonuses, commissions, fringe benefits, overtime, car allowances, other irregular payments or any other compensation except base salary.
Base Salary
 
1.4           "" shall mean (a) with respect to Group I Participants (i) felony conviction; or (ii) willful disclosure of material trade secrets or other material confidential information related to the business of a Participating Company; or (iii) willful and continued failure substantially to perform the same duties as in effect prior to the Change of Control for the Participating Company (other than any such failure resulting from physical or mental incapacity or any actual or anticipated failure resulting from a resignation for Good Reason) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered by the Chief Executive Officer or the President
Cause
 
 
of the Company, which demand identifies the specific actions which the Chief Executive Officer or the President of the Company believes constitute willful and continued failure substantially to perform duties, and which performance is not substantially corrected within ten (10) days of receipt of such demand.  For purposes of the previous sentence, no act or failure to act shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, with willful malfeasance or gross negligence and without reasonable belief that action or omission was not materially adverse to the best interest of the Participating Company Group; and (b) with respect to Group II Participants (i) theft, dishonesty or falsification of any employment or Participating Company Group records, (ii) improper disclosure of a Participating Company's confidential or proprietary information, (iii) any intentional act by such Participant which has a material detrimental effect on the Participating Company Group's reputation or business, (iv) failure to perform any reasonably assigned duties, which failure is not cured with in thirty (30) days following written notice of such failure from the Participating Company, (v) gross misconduct or (vi) felony conviction.
 
1.5           "" shall have the meaning set forth in the applicable Performance Share Program.
Certification Date
 
1.6           "" shall mean a Change of Control of the Company of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act, whether or not the Company is then subject to such reporting requirement; provided, however, that anything in this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, a Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred if:
Change of Control
 
(a)           any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity or person, or any syndicate or group deemed to be a person under Section 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company;
 
(b)           during any period of two (2) consecutive years (not including any period prior to the Effective Date), individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board and any new directors, whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least three-fourths (3/4ths) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved (the ""), cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof;
Incumbent Directors
 
(c)           there occurs a reorganization, merger, consolidation or other corporate transaction involving the Company (a ""), in each case with respect to which the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such Transaction do not, immediately after the Transaction, own securities representing more than 50% of the combined voting power of the Company, a parent of the Company or other corporation resulting from such
Transaction
 
Transaction (counting, for this purpose, only those securities held by the Company's stockholders immediately after the Transaction that were received in exchange for, or represent their continuing ownership of, securities of the Company held by them immediately prior to the Transaction);
 
(d)           all or substantially all of the assets of the Company are sold, liquidated or distributed; or
 
(e)           there is a "Change of Control" or a "change in the effective control" of the Company within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code and the Regulations.
 
1.7           "" shall mean the date on which the Change of Control occurs.  Notwithstanding the first sentence of this definition, if a Participant's employment with the Participating Company Group terminates prior to the Change of Control Date and it is reasonably demonstrated that such termination (a) was at the request of the third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect the Change of Control or (b) otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of the Change of Control, then "Change of Control Date" shall mean the date immediately prior to the date of such Participant's termination of employment.
Change of Control Date
 
1.8           "" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any successor provisions thereto.
Code
 
1.9           "" means the Executive Severance Plan Administrative Committee responsible for administering the Plan as provided in Section 5.
Committee
 
1.10         "" shall mean the common stock of the Company.
Common Stock
 
1.11         "" means Adobe Systems Incorporated, a Delaware Corporation, and, except in determining under Section 1.4 hereof whether or not any Change of Control has occurred, shall include any successor to its business and/or assets.
Company
 
1.12         "" means the date of a Participant's termination of employment with the Participating Company Group as determined in accordance with Section 3.7.
Date of Termination
 
1.13         "" shall mean a Participant's (a) incapacity due to physical or mental illness which causes such Participant's absence from the full-time performance of his or her duties with the Participating Company Group for six (6) consecutive months and (b) such Participant's failure to return to full-time performance of his or her duties for the Participating Company Group within thirty (30) days after written Notice of Termination due to Disability is given to a Participant.  Any question as to the existence of Disability upon which a Participant and the Participating Company Group cannot agree shall be determined by a qualified independent physician selected by the Participant (or, if such Participant is not able to select a physician, such selection shall be made by any adult member of the Participant's immediate family), and approved by the Participating Company Group.  The determination of such
Disability
 
physician made in writing to the Participating Company Group shall be final and conclusive for all purposes of this Plan.
 
1.14         "" means December 12, 2006.
Effective Date
 
1.15         "" shall mean options, stock appreciation rights, stock purchase rights, restricted stock, stock bonuses and other awards which consist of, or relate to, equity securities of the Company, other than Performance Awards, in each case which have been granted to a Participant under the Equity Plans.  For purposes of this Plan, Equity Awards shall also include any shares of common stock or other securities issued pursuant to the terms of an Equity Award.
Equity Awards
 
1.16         "" shall mean the Adobe Systems Incorporated 1994 Stock Option Plan, the Adobe Systems Incorporated 1994 Amended Performance and Restricted Stock Plan, the Adobe Systems Incorporated 1999 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, the Adobe Systems Incorporated 2003 Equity Incentive Plan, the Adobe Systems Incorporated 2005 Special Purpose Equity Incentive Plan, and any other equity-based incentive plan or arrangement adopted or assumed by the Company, and any future equity-based incentive plan or arrangement adopted or assumed by the Company, but shall not include the Adobe Systems Incorporated 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan or any other plan intended to be qualified under Section 423 of the Code.
Equity Plans
 
1.17         "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
 
1.18         "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any successor provisions thereto.
Exchange Act
 
1.19         "" shall mean a Participant's resignation of employment during the Term as a result of any of the following:
Good Reason
 
(a)           A meaningful and detrimental alteration in such Participant's position, titles, or the nature or status of responsibilities (including reporting responsibilities) from those in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control Date;
 
(b)           A reduction by the Participating Company Group in such Participant's Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control Date or as the same may be increased from time to time thereafter; a failure by the Participating Company Group to increase such Participant's salary at a rate commensurate with that of other similarly situatedkey executives of the Participating Company Group; or a reduction in the target incentive opportunity percentage used to determine such Participant's Target Bonus below the percentage in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control Date;
 
(c)           The relocation of the office of the Participating Company where such Participant is primarily employed immediately prior to the Change of Control Date (the "") to a location which is more than fifty (50) miles away from the COC Location
COC Location
 
or the Participating Company's requiring such Participant to be based more than fifty (50) miles away from the COC Location (except for required travel on the Participating Company's business to an extent substantially consistent with the Participant's customary business travel obligations in the ordinary course of business prior to the Change of Control Date);
 
(d)           The failure by the Participating Company Group to continue in effect any compensation plan in which such Participant participated prior to the Change of Control Date or made available to such Participant after the Change of Control Date, unless an equitable arrangement (embodied in an ongoing substitute or alternative plan) has been made with respect to such plan in connection with the Change of Control, or the failure by the Participating Company Group to continue such Participant's participation therein on at least as favorable a basis, both in terms of the amount of benefits provided and the level of participation relative to other participants, as existed on the Change of Control Date;
 
(e)           The failure by the Participating Company Group to continue to provide such Participant with benefits at least as favorable in the aggregate to those enjoyed by such Participant under the Participating Company Group's retirement, savings, life insurance, medical, health and accident, disability, and fringe benefit plans and programs in which such Participant was participating in immediately prior to the Change of Control Date; or the failure by the Participating Company Group to provide such Participant with the number of paid vacation days to which he or she was entitled on the basis of years of service with the Participating Company Group in accordance with the Participating Company Group's normal vacation policy in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control;
 
(f)            The failure by the Participating Company Group to pay or provide to such Participant with any material item of compensation or benefits promptly when due;
 
(g)           The failure of the Participating Company Group to obtain an agreement from any successor to assume and agree to perform the obligations of this Plan, as contemplated in Section 9.1 hereof or, if the business for which such Participant's services are principally performed is sold at any time after a Change of Control, the failure of the Participating Company Group to obtain such an agreement from the purchaser of such business;
 
(h)           A material breach by the Participating Company Group of the provisions of this Plan;
 
 , , that an event described above in clause (a), (b), (d), (e), (f) or (h) shall not constitute Good Reason unless it is communicated by such Participant to the Company in writing and is not corrected by the Company in a manner which is reasonably satisfactory to such Participant (including full retroactive correction with respect to any monetary matter) within 10 days of the Company's receipt of such written notice.
provided
however
 
1.19         "" shall mean each senior management employee of a Participating Company who (i) is on the U.S. payroll, (ii) is not a party to any other retention and/or severance agreement with the Participating Company Group that is not otherwise waived
Group I Participant
 
in accordance with Section 3.10, and (iii) on the Change of Control Date, is classified as a Vice President (or any more senior role) of a Participating Company.
 
1.20         "" shall mean each senior management-level employee of a Participating Company who (i) is on the U.S. payroll, (ii) is not a party to any other retention and/or severance agreement with the Participating Company Group that is not otherwise waived in accordance with Section 3.10, and (iii) who on the Change of Control Date, is classified as a Director, Senior Director, or such other position, which is determined by the Company prior to the Change of Control  as equivalent thereto.
Group II Participant
 
1.21         "" shall mean (i) a Participant's involuntary termination of employment with the Participating Company Group during the Term other than for death, Disability or Cause or (ii) a Participant's resignation of employment with the Participating Company Group during the Term for Good Reason.
Involuntary Termination
 
1.22         "" means the notice specified in Section 3.7.
Notice of Termination
 
1.23         "" means the Company and any present or future United States parent and/or United States direct or indirect subsidiary corporations of the Company that have been designated by the Board as a "Participating Company" for purposes of this Plan (all of which along with the Company being individually referred to as a "Participating Company" and collectively referred to as the "Participating Company Group").  For purposes of this Plan, a parent or subsidiary corporation shall be defined in Sections 424(e) and 424(f) of the Code and shall include entities related to the Company by similar ownership levels that are not corporations.
Participating Company Group
 
1.24         "" shall mean each Group I Participant and each Group II Participant.
Participant
 
1.25         "" shall have the meaning set forth in the applicable Equity Plan, and shall include awards of performance-based restricted stock, performance-based restricted stock units and performance-based cash awards.
Performance Awards
 
1.26         "" shall have the meaning set forth in the applicable Performance Share Program and underlying Equity Plan.
Performance Period
 
1.27         "" shall mean the specific terms of Performance Awards adopted from time to time by the Company with respect to a specified Performance Period.
Performance Share Program
 
1.28         "" means this Adobe Systems Incorporated Executive Severance Plan In the Event of a Change of Control.
Plan
 
1.29         "" means the calendar year and the last day of such year is December 31.
Plan Year
 
1.30         "" shall mean the greater of (a) the Target Bonus applicable to a Participant for the year in which such Participant's Involuntary Termination occurs or (b) the highest Target  Bonus applicable to such Participant in any of the three years ending prior to the Change of Control Date.
Reference Bonus
 
1.31         "" shall mean the greater of (a) the annual rate of a Participant's Base Salary from the Participating Company Group in effect immediately prior to the date of such Participant's Involuntary Termination or (b) the annual rate of a Participant's Base Salary from the Participating Company Group in effect at any point during the three-year period ending on the Change of Control Date.
Reference Salary
 
1.32         "" shall mean the proposed, temporary and final regulations under Section 280G of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
Regulations
 
1.33         "" means those benefits provided to a Participant under this Plan on account of a Change of Control, as determined in accordance with Section 3.2, 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5 after the execution of a release of claims as required by Section 10.
Severance Benefits
 
1.34         "" shall mean (a) with respect to Group I Participants, the sum of (i) two (2) plus (ii) one twelfth (1/12) for each completed year of service with the Participating Company Group (not in excess of twelve (12) years), and (b) with respect to Group II Participants, the sum of (i) one (1) plus (ii) one twelfth (1/12) for each completed year of service with the Participating Company Group (not in excess of six (6) years).
Severance Multiple
th
th
 
1.35         "" shall mean an amount equal to (i) a Participant's Base Salary multiplied by such Participant's target incentive opportunity percentage under the Participating Company's Annual Incentive Plan and Profit Sharing Plan (or any successor plans then in effect), and (ii)  target commissions.
Target Bonus
 
1.36         "" shall mean the period of a Participant's employment that commences on the Change of Control Date and shall continue until the second anniversary of the Change of Control Date.
Term
 
Section 2.               .  During the Term, the following terms and conditions shall apply to a Participant's employment with the Participating Company Group:
Employment During the Term
 
2.1           .  A Participant's position, title, nature and status of responsibilities and reporting obligations shall be no less favorable than those that such Participant enjoyed immediately prior to the Change of Control Date.
Titles; Reporting and Duties
 
2.2           .  A Participant's Base Salary and annual bonus opportunity may not be reduced, and such Participant's Base Salary shall be periodically reviewed and increased in the manner commensurate with increases awarded to other similarly situated employees of the Participating Company Group.
Base Salary and Bonus
 
2.3           .  A Participant shall be eligible to participate in each long-term incentive plan or arrangement established by the Participating Company Group for its employees at such Participant's level of seniority in accordance with the terms and provisions of such plan or arrangement and at a level consistent with the Participating Company Group's practices applicable to each Participant prior to the Change of Control Date.
Incentive Compensation
 
2.4           .  A Participant shall be eligible to participate in all retirement, welfare and fringe benefit plans and arrangements that the Participating Company Group provides to its employees in accordance with the terms of such plans and arrangements, which shall be no less favorable to such Participant, in the aggregate, than the terms and provisions available to other similarly situated employees of the Participating Company Group.
Benefits
 
2.5           .  A Participant shall continue to be employed at a business location in the metropolitan area in which such Participant was employed prior to the Change of Control Date and the amount of time that such Participant is required to travel for business purposes will not be increased in any significant respect from the amount of business travel required of such Participant prior to the Change of Control Date.
Location
 
Section 3.               .  In the event of a Participant's Involuntary Termination, the terminated Participant shall be entitled to the following:
Severance Benefits
 
3.1           .  The Company shall pay to such terminated Participant within five (5) days of the date of such Involuntary Termination the full amount of any earned but unpaid Base Salary through the Date of Termination at the rate in effect at the time of the Notice of Termination, plus a cash payment (calculated on the basis of such Participant's Reference Salary) for all unused vacation time which such Participant may have accrued as of the Date of Termination.
Payment of Wages and Accrued Vacation
 
3.2           .  Subject to execution of a release of claims as described in Section 10 below, the terminated Participant will receive the following cash benefits:
Payment of Cash Severance
 
(a)           The Company shall pay to such terminated Participant a pro rata portion (based on the number of days served in the applicable bonus period) of the Participant's Target Bonus for the year in which such Involuntary Termination occurs, calculated on the assumption that all performance targets have been or will be achieved at target levels, plus the full amount of any bonus that the Participant earned for the year prior to the year in which the Involuntary Termination occurs based on actual Company and individual performance, to the extent such bonus has not been paid prior to the Date of Termination.  Except as otherwise provided in Sections 3.11 and 4.1 below, these cash payments will be made in a lump sum on the day following the Release Effective Date.
 
(b)           In addition, the Company shall pay to such terminated Participant an amount equal to the product of (a) the sum of such terminated Participant's Reference Salary
 
and Reference Bonus, multiplied by (b) such terminated Participant's Severance Multiple.  This severance payment shall be in lieu of any other cash severance payments which such terminated Participant is entitled to receive under any other notice or severance pay and/or retention plan or arrangement sponsored by any Participating Company.  Except as otherwise provided in Sections 3.11 and 4.1 below, these cash payments will be made in a lump sum on the day following the Release Effective Date.
 
3.3           .  Subject to execution of a release of claims as described in Section 10 below, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in an applicable Equity Award agreement, all Equity Awards held by a terminated Participant shall vest in full and, as applicable, shall become fully exercisable, as of the Date of Termination, except as otherwise provided in Sections 3.11 and 4.1 below.  Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, in no event shall the vesting and exercisability provisions applicable to a terminated Participant under the terms of an Equity Award be less favorable to such Participant than the terms and provisions of such awards in effect on the Change of Control Date.
Vesting and Exercise of Equity Awards
 
3.4           .  Subject to execution of a release of claims as described in Section 10 below, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in an applicable Performance Award agreement, and except as otherwise provided in Sections 3.11 and 4.1 below, with respect to Performance Awards granted on or after January 24, 2008, the Actual Award credited to the terminated Participant under the Performance Share Plan shall vest in full as of the Date of Termination.  All Performance Awards granted prior to January 24, 2008 shall be subject to such acceleration of vesting, if any, as provided in the applicable Performance Award agreement, except as otherwise provided in Sections 3.11 and 4.1 below.
Vesting of Performance Awards
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, in no event shall the vesting and exercisability provisions applicable to a terminated Participant under the terms of a Performance Awards agreement be less favorable to such Participant than the terms and provisions of such awards in effect on the Change of Control Date.
 
3.5           .  Subject to execution of a release of claims as described in Section 10 below, and subject to the terminated Participant and/or his or her eligible dependents electing continued medical insurance coverage in accordance with the applicable provisions of state and federal law (commonly referred to as ""), the Company shall pay the terminated Participant's COBRA premiums for the duration of such COBRA coverage, or for the period of years equal to the Participant's Severance Multiple, whichever is less.  If the terminated Participant's medical coverage immediately prior to the Date of Termination included the terminated Participant's dependents, the Company paid COBRA premiums shall include the premiums necessary for such dependents as have elected COBRA coverage.  Notwithstanding the above, in the event the terminated Participant becomes covered under another employer's group health plan (other than a plan which imposes a preexisting condition exclusion unless the preexisting condition exclusion does not apply) or otherwise ceases to be eligible for COBRA during the period provided in this Section 3.5, the Company shall cease payment of the COBRA premiums.
Benefits Continuation
COBRA
 
3.6           .  A terminated Participant's participation and rights in other benefit plans as may be provided by the Participating Company Group at the time of his/her Involuntary Termination shall be governed solely by the terms and conditions of such plans, if any.
Other Benefit Plans
 
3.7           .  Any termination of a Participant's employment by a Participating Company or by such Participant during the Term shall be communicated by a notice of termination to the other party hereto (the "").  The Notice of Termination shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Plan relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Participant's employment under the provision so indicated.  The date of a Participant's termination of employment with the Participating Company Group shall be determined as follows:  (i) if employment is terminated by the Participating Company Group in an Involuntary Termination, five (5) days after the date the Notice of Termination is provided by the Participating Company Group, (ii) if employment is terminated by the Participating Company Group for Cause, the later of the date specified in the Notice of Termination or ten (10) days following the date such notice is received by the Participant, and (iii) if the basis of a Participant's Involuntary Termination is such Participant's resignation for Good Reason, the Date of Termination shall be ten (10) days after the date such Participant's Notice of Termination is received by the Company.
Date and Notice of Termination
Notice of Termination
 
3.8           .  A terminated Participant shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Plan by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any payment or benefit provided for in this Plan be reduced (except as set forth in Section 3.5 above) by any compensation earned by such a terminated Participant as the result of employment by another employer or by retirement benefits paid by the Participating Company Group or another employer after the Date of Termination or otherwise.
No Mitigation or Offset
 
3.9           .  Amounts paid to a Participant hereunder shall be subject to all applicable federal, state and local withholding taxes.
Withholding
 
3.10         .  A terminated Participant may elect, in his or her sole discretion, to waive each and every prior retention and/or severance agreement entered into between a Participating Company and such terminated Participant in order to participate and receive the Severance Benefits provided under this Plan. Such waiver shall be in writing in such form as may reasonably be specified by the Committee and shall be filed with the Company in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be reasonably established by the Committee.
Waiver of Any Other Participating Company Retention/Severance Agreement
 
3.11         .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, to the extent that (i) one or more of the payments or benefits received or to be received by a Participant pursuant to this Plan would constitute deferred compensation subject to the requirements of Code Section 409A, and (ii) the Participant is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Code Section 409A, then such payment or benefit (or portion thereof) will be delayed
Application of Section 409A
 
until the earliest date following the Participant's "separation from service" with the Participating Company Group within the meaning of Code Section 409A on which the Company can provide such payment or benefit to the Participant without the Participant's incurrence of any additional tax or interest pursuant to Code Section 409A
, with all remaining payments or benefits due thereafter occurring in accordance with the original schedule
.  In addition, this Plan and the payments and benefits to be provided hereunder are intended to comply in all respects with the applicable provisions of Code Section 409A.
 
Section 4.               .
Limitation on Payment of Benefits
 
4.1           .  In the event that it is determined by the Accounting Firm that any amount payable to a Participant under this Plan, alone or when aggregated with any other amount payable or benefit provided to such Participant pursuant to any other plan or arrangement of the Participating Company Group, would constitute an "excess parachute payment" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code, then notwithstanding the other provisions of this Plan, the amounts payable will not exceed the amount which produces the greatest after-tax benefit to the Participant.  For purposes of the foregoing, the greatest after-tax benefit will be determined within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of the event giving rise to such payment to the Participant.  The Company shall request a determination in writing by the Accounting Firm of whether the full amount of the payments to the Participant, or a lesser amount, will result in the greatest after-tax benefit to the Participant.  As soon as practicable thereafter, the Accounting Firm shall determine and report to the Company and the Participant the amount of such payments and benefits which would produce the greatest after-tax benefit to the Participant.  For the purposes of such determination, the Accounting Firm may rely on reasonable, good faith interpretations concerning the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code.  The Company and the Participant shall furnish to the Accounting Firm such information and documents as the Accounting Firm may reasonably request in order to make their required determination.  The Company shall bear all fees and expenses the Accounting Firm may reasonably charge in connection with its services contemplated by this Section.  If a reduced amount of the payments will give rise to the greatest after tax benefit, the reduction in the payments and benefits shall occur in the following order unless the Participant elects in writing a different order prior to the last day of the year preceding the date on which the event that triggers the payment occurs: (i) reduction of cash payments; (ii) cancellation of accelerated vesting of equity awards (including Performance Awards) other than stock options; (iii) cancellation of accelerated vesting of stock options; and (iv) reduction of other benefits paid to the Participant.  In the event that acceleration of compensation from the Participant's equity awards (including Performance Awards) is to be reduced, such acceleration of vesting shall be canceled in the reverse order of the date of grant unless the Participant elects in writing a different order for cancellation prior to the last day of the year preceding the date on which the event that triggers the payment occurs.
Parachute Payments
 
4.2           .  Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan to the contrary, the benefits provided hereunder shall be in lieu of any other severance plan and/or retention agreement benefits provided by any Participating Company and the Severance
Non-Duplication of Benefits
 
Benefits and other benefits provided under this Plan shall be reduced by any severance paid or provided to a Participant by a Participating Company under any other plan or arrangement.
 
4.3           .  If a Participant is indebted to the Participating Company Group at his or her Date of Termination, the Company reserves the right to offset any benefits under this Plan by the amount of such indebtedness.
Indebtedness of Participant
 
Section 5.               .
Plan Administration, Amendment and Termination
 
5.1           .
Plan Administrative Committee
 
(a)           .  The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.
Administration by the Committee
 
(b)           .  Except as otherwise provided in Section 5.1(c) below, the "" shall be composed of those individuals at the Company who hold the titles of  Vice President and General Counsel, and Vice President Human Resources, or titles functionally equivalent thereto, and another employee of the Company as shall be appointed by the Board.  The designation of an individual as holding such title or position shall constitute automatic appointment to the Committee and the resignation or other termination of employment or change to a different position by a Committee member shall constitute automatic resignation from the Committee.
Committee Members
Committee
 
(c)           Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon a Change of Control, a majority of the Committee Members shall be comprised of persons who were members of the Committee prior to the Change of Control or who are elected to serve as additional Adobe Members as provided below (the "").  This shall be accomplished by retaining a majority of those persons who were Committee Members prior to the Change of Control, regardless of whether such members' job titles have changed or they would otherwise be deemed to have automatically resigned their membership on the Committee.  In the event that a majority of the members of the Committee prior to the Change of Control are unwilling or unable to continue to serve as members of the Committee, the members of the Committee shall, by majority vote, elect sufficient additional Adobe Members, so that a majority of the Committee Members are Adobe Members.  Such additional Adobe Members shall be persons who were employed by the Company prior to the Change of Control.
Adobe Members
 
(d)           The Committee Members shall not receive compensation for their services on the Committee.  The Participating Company Group shall indemnify and hold harmless the Committee Members from and against all liabilities, claims, demands and costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses of legal proceedings, incurred by the Committee which arise as a result of membership on the Committee.
 
5.2         .  The Committee shall have all powers necessary to enable it properly to carry out its duties with respect to the complete control
Committee Powers and Responsibilities
 
of the administration of the Plan.  Not in limitation, but in amplification of the foregoing, the Committee shall have the power and authority in its discretion to:
 
(a)          Construe the Plan to determine all questions that shall arise as to interpretations of the Plan's provisions, including determination of which individuals are eligible for Severance Benefits, the amount of Severance Benefits to which any employee may be entitled, the determination of which type of Participant any individual is (i.e., Group I Participant or Group II Participant) and all other matters pertaining to the Plan;
 
(b)          Adopt amendments to the Plan document which are deemed necessary or desirable bring these documents into compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to Code Section 409A and the guidance thereunder; and
 
(c)          Establish procedures for determining who the Adobe Members of the Committee shall be after a Change of Control and/or for electing additional Adobe Members of the Committee pursuant to Section 5.1.  For purposes of this Section 5.2(c), only those persons who were members of the Committee prior to the Change of Control shall be authorized to vote.
 
5.3         .  Decisions of the Committee made in good faith upon any matter within the scope of its authority shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all persons, including Participants and their legal representatives.  Any discretion granted to the Committee shall be exercised in accordance with such rules and policies as may be established by the Committee from time to time.
Decisions of the Committee
 
5.4         .  The Plan may be amended by the Committee as provided by Section 5.2(b) and may also be amended by resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company (i) for the purposes specified in Section 5.2(b), (ii) to increase the amount and/or type of Severance Benefits provided by the Plan, and (iii) to extend the Plan termination date as provided in Section 5.5.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 5.4 the Plan may not be amended prior to its termination, or, in the event the Plan is extended as provided in this Section 5.4,  the date on which it would have terminated under Section 5.5 had it not been extended.
Plan Amendment
 
5.5         .  This Plan shall terminate automatically five (5) yearsfrom the Effective Date unless extended by the Company or unless a Change of Control shall have occurred prior thereto, in which case the Plan shall terminate following the later of the date which is at least twenty-four (24) months after the occurrence of a Change of Control or the payment of all Severance Benefits due under the Plan.
Plan Termination
 
Section 6.               .  Any person who believes he or she is entitled to benefits under this Plan may submit a claim for benefits.  The claim must be in writing and should state the claimant's reasons for claiming these benefits.  The claims should be sent to the Executive Severance Plan Administrative Committee of Adobe Systems Incorporated.  If the claim is denied, in whole or in part, written notice of the denial will be provided within ninety (90) days of initial receipt of the claim.  Such notice will include an explanation of the factors on which the denial is based and what, if any, additional information is needed to support the claim.  Further review of the claim may be obtained by filing a written request for review.  An individual whose
Claims for Benefits
 
claim for benefits is denied may file a request for review with the Committee within sixty (60) days.  After receiving a request for review, the Committee will render a final decision within sixty (60) days, unless circumstances require an extension of an additional sixty (60) days for the review.  In this case, the Committee will notify the claimant in writing of the need for an extension.  The Committee's decision will be in writing, setting forth the specific reasons for the decision, as well as specific references to the Plan provisions upon which the decision is based.
 
Section 7.               .  The Company shall pay or reimburse a Group I Participant for all costs and expenses (including, without limitation, court costs and reasonable legal fees and expenses which reflect common practice with respect to the matters involved) incurred by such Group I Participant as a result of any bona fide claim, action or proceeding (a) arising out of such Group I Participant's termination of employment during the Term, (b) contesting, disputing or enforcing any right, benefits or obligations under this Plan or (c) arising out of or challenging the validity, advisability or enforceability of this Plan or any provision thereof.  The payments or reimbursements provided for herein shall be paid by the Participating Company Group promptly (but in no event more than five (5) business days) following receipt of a written request for payment or reimbursement, as the case may be.  It is intended that each installment of payments under this Section 7 is a separate "payment" for purposes of Section 409A.  For the avoidance of doubt, it is intended that the payments under this Section 7 satisfy, to the greatest extent possible, the exemptions from the application of Code Section 409A provided under Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(11).
Legal Fees and Expenses
 
Section 8.               .
Miscellaneous
 
8.1           .  Nothing in this Plan shall be construed as giving any Participant any right to be retained in the employ of the Participating Company Group or shall affect the terms and conditions of a Participant's employment with the Participating Company Group prior to the commencement of the Term.
No Contract of Employment
 
8.2           .  This Plan is intended to be (a) an employee welfare plan as defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA and (b) a "top-hat" plan maintained for the benefit of a select group of management or highly compensated employees of the Participating Company Group.
ERISA Plan
 
8.3           .  All payments provided under this Plan, other than payments made pursuant to any other Participating Company Group employee benefit plan which provides otherwise, shall be paid in cash from the general funds of the Participating Company Group, and no special or separate fund shall be established, and no other segregation of assets made, to assure payment.  To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Participating Company Group hereunder, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured creditor of the Participating Company Group.
Source of Payments
 
8.4           .  For the purpose of this Plan, notices and all other communications provided for in this Plan shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed by overnight courier or United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the Executive Severance Plan Administrative
Notice
 
Committee, Adobe Systems Incorporated, 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704, with a copy to the General Counsel of the Company, or to a Participant at the address set forth in the Participating Company Group's payroll records or to such other address as either party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
 
8.5           .  No benefit under the Plan may be assigned, transferred, pledged as security for indebtedness or otherwise encumbered by any Participant or subject to any legal process for the payment of any claim against a Participant.
Nonalienation of Benefits
 
8.6           .  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Plan shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Plan, which shall remain in full force and effect.
Validity
 
8.7           .  The headings contained in this Plan are intended solely for convenience of reference and shall not affect the rights of the parties to this Plan.
Headings
 
8.8           .  This Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California to the extent such laws are not preempted by ERISA.
Governing Law
 
Section 9.               .
Successors; Binding Agreement
 
9.1           .  The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company expressly to assume and to agree to perform the obligations under this Plan in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place; , , that no such assumption shall relieve the Company of its obligations hereunder.  As used in this Section 9, the "Company" shall include the Company as defined in Section 1.9 and any successor to its business and/or assets which assumes and agrees to perform the obligations arising under this Plan by operation of law or otherwise.
Assumption by Successor
provided
however
 
9.2           .  This Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each Participant (and such Participant's personal representatives and heirs) and the Company and any organization which succeeds to substantially all of the business or assets of the Company, whether by means of merger, consolidation, acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or otherwise, including, without limitation, as a result of a Change of Control or by operation of law.  This Plan shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by each Participant' personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees.  If a Participant should die while any amount would still be payable hereunder if such Participant had continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Plan to such Participant's devisee, legatee or other designee or, if there is no such designee, to such Participant's estate.
Enforceability; Beneficiaries
 
Section 10.             .  As a condition to the receipt of Severance Benefits, each Participant must execute and allow to become effective a release of claims in a form satisfactory to the Committee, with such execution occurring not prior to the Date of Termination and not later than 45 days after the Participant's receipt thereof.  The date on which such release becomes effective is the "Release Effective Date".  No Severance Benefits shall be paid to a Participant under this Plan prior to the Release Effective Date.  The form of release shall not cause the Participant to waive or release any claims or rights a Participant may have to be indemnified by the Company under applicable law or the terms of any then-effective indemnification agreement or obligation.
Release of Claims
 


