FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20090113170041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
   
 
 
Section 5 
Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
(b) On January 9, 2009, two long-time members of the Board of Directors of Adobe Systems Incorporated ("Adobe"), Colleen M. Pouliot and Delbert Yocam, announced their retirement, effective March 31, 2009. Mr. Yocam's and Ms. Pouliot's decision to retire did not involve any disagreement with Adobe, our management or the Board of Directors.
 
(d) On January 9, 2009, the Board of Directors appointed Dan Rosensweig to our Board of Directors effective January 12, 2009. Mr. Rosensweig fills a vacancy created by an increase in the size of the Board of Directors from eleven to twelve. Mr. Rosensweig will be a Class II director, with a term of office expiring at Adobe's 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on April 1, 2009.
 
There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Rosensweig and any other persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director. Since the beginning of our last fiscal year through the date hereof, there have been no transactions with Adobe, and there are currently no proposed transactions with Adobe in which the amount involved exceeds $120,000 and in which Mr. Rosensweig had or will have a direct or indirect material interest within the meaning of Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
Mr. Rosensweig was also appointed to the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors effective April 1, 2009, subject to Mr. Rosensweig's re-election to the Board at Adobe's 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
As a non-employee director, Mr. Rosensweig will receive a pro-rated annual retainer of $50,000 for his Board service. Mr. Rosensweig will also receive an annual retainer of $15,000 for his service on the Executive Compensation Committee effective April 1, 2009, subject to Mr. Rosensweig's re-election to the Board at Adobe's 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
In addition, on January 12, 2009, Mr. Rosensweig was granted an initial restricted stock unit award payable in 20,304 shares of our common stock. The number of shares was based on such award having an aggregate value of $450,000 divided by Adobe's average stock price as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market over the 30 calendar days preceding the date of grant. The award will vest over a two-year period, 50% each year on the anniversary of the grant date.
 
Mr. Rosensweig will be eligible for reimbursement for his travel and related expenses in connection with attending Board and committee meetings, as well as costs and expenses incurred in attending director education programs and other Adobe-related seminars and conferences. Mr. Rosensweig will also be eligible to purchase certain Adobe health, dental, and vision insurance at COBRA rates while serving as an Adobe Board member.
 
A copy of our press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Rosensweig to the Board of Directors and the retirement of Ms. Pouliot and Mr. Yocam from the Board of Directors is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
.
 
On January 9, 2009, our Board of Directors approved and adopted Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Restated Bylaws"). The Restated Bylaws were effective as of January 9, 2009. The Restated Bylaws set forth more explicitly the processes and procedures that our stockholders must follow, and specify additional information that our stockholders must provide, when proposing director nominations and other business in light of the increased usage of more complex voting/ownership arrangements. Additionally, the Restated Bylaws are intended to ensure that our stockholders and Adobe have a reasonable opportunity to consider nominations and other business proposed to be brought before a meeting of stockholders or to be
proposed for a special meeting of stockholders and to allow for full information to be distributed to stockholders.
 
The Restated Bylaws:
 
Confirm that a stockholder may propose nominees for director or other business (excluding stockholder proposals submitted for inclusion in Adobe's proxy statement that comply with Securities Exchange Act Rule 14a-8) only if such stockholder complies with the advance notice time periods and other provisions in Section 5 of the Restated Bylaws, including a front-end notice requirement as provided in Section 5(b)(iii).
                 
 
Require a stockholder to disclose, and update if necessary, additional information on the stockholder's interest in the matters being proposed and interests of the stockholder and such stockholder's associates in our common stock, including disclosure of agreements that involve hedging, short positions and similar arrangements and agreements that involve acquiring, voting, holding or disposing of our common stock;
                 
 
Provide that an extension to the notice period is not applicable to every instance when the size of the Board is increased;
                 
 
Impose a requirement on a stockholder nominee for election as a director to answer a written questionnaire with respect to background and qualification of such nominee in order to ensure that Adobe: (i) has enough information to include any required disclosures in communications to stockholders and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, if necessary; and (ii) is able to determine whether the nominee is qualified to serve if elected;
                 
 
Clarifies that failure to comply with the requirements of Section 5 of the Restated Bylaws will result in such proposal or nomination not being presented to the stockholders; and
                 
 
Revise the special meeting provisions to conform the advance notice requirements in the context of proposing business or nominating directors for consideration at a special meeting of stockholders.
                 
 
The preceding is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Restated Bylaws, which are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Exhibits
(d)
        
 
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Adobe Systems Incorporated, dated January 9, 2009
3.1
                                
Press Release issued on January 13, 2009
99.1
                          
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
Table of Contents
 
           .  The registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.
SECTION 1.
Registered Office
 
           .  The corporation shall also have and maintain an office or principal place of business at such place as may be fixed by the Board of Directors, and may also have offices at such other places, both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the corporation may require.
SECTION 2.
Other Offices
 
           .  The corporate seal shall consist of a die bearing the name of the corporation and the inscription, "Corporate Seal-Delaware."  Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
SECTION 3.
Corporate Seal
 
           .  Meetings of the stockholders of the corporation may be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors, or, if not so designated, then at the office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 hereof.  The Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, determine that the meeting shall not be held at any place, but may instead be held solely by means of remote communication as provided under the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "DGCL").
SECTION 4.
Place of Meetings
 
           .  (a)  The annual meeting of the stockholders of the corporation, for the purpose of election of directors and for such other business as may properly come before it, shall be held on such date and at such time as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.  At an annual meeting only such business shall be conducted as is a proper matter for stockholder action under the DGCL and as shall have been properly brought before the meeting.  Matters may be properly brought before the annual meeting, only as follows: (A) brought before the meeting and specified pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting of the stockholders, (B) otherwise brought specifically by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (C) by any stockholder of the corporation who was a stockholder of record who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 5; PROVIDED, that if such matter is proposed on behalf of a beneficial owner it  may only be properly brought before the meeting, if such beneficial owner was the beneficial owner of shares of the corporation at the time of the giving of the stockholder's notice provided for in Section 5(b) below.  Clause (C) above shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations and submit other business (other than matters properly included in the corporation's notice of meeting of stockholders and proxy statement under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (the "1934 Act")) before an annual meeting of the stockholders.
SECTION 5.
Annual Meeting
          At an annual meeting of the stockholders, the following procedures shall apply in order for a matter to be properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder.
(b) 
 
(i)            For nominations for election to the Board of Directors to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (C) of Section 5(a) of these Bylaws, the stockholder must deliver written notice to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation on a timely basis as set forth in Section 5(b)(iii) and must update and supplement such written notice on a timely basis as set forth in Section 5(c). Such stockholder's notice shall set forth:  (A) as to each nominee such stockholder proposes to nominate at the meeting: (1) the name, age, business address and residence address of such nominee, (2) the principal occupation or employment of such nominee, (3) the class and number of shares of each class of capital stock of the corporation which are owned of record and beneficially by such nominee, (4) the date or dates on which such shares were acquired and the investment intent of such acquisition, (5) a statement whether such nominee, if elected, intends to tender promptly following such person's failure to receive the required vote for election or re-election at the next meeting at which such person would face election or re-election, an irrevocable resignation effective upon acceptance of such resignation by the Board of Directors, in accordance with the corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines, (6) with respect to each nominee for election or re-election to the Board of Directors, include a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 5(e) of these Bylaws, and (7) such other information concerning such nominee as would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement soliciting proxies for the election of such nominee as a director in an election contest (even if an election contest is not involved), or that is otherwise required to be disclosed pursuant to Section 14 of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (B) the information required by Section 5(b)(iv). The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such proposed nominee.
 
(ii)           For business other than nominations for election to the Board of Directors to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (C) of Section 5(a) of these Bylaws, the stockholder must deliver written notice to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation on a timely basis as set forth in Section 5(b)(iii), and must update and supplement such written notice on a timely basis as set forth in Section 5(c).  Such stockholder's notice shall set forth:  (A) as to each matter such stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, (1) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at such meeting, (2) the text of the proposal to be presented at the meeting, (3) a statement in support of the proposal, (4) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person, by remote communication, if applicable, or by proxy at the meeting to bring such business before the meeting, (5) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business, (6) the class, series and number of shares of the corporation which are owned of record and beneficially owned by the stockholder, and (7) any material interest (including any anticipated benefit of such business to any Proponent (as defined below) other than solely as a result of its ownership of the corporation's capital stock, that is material to any Proponent individually, or to the Proponents in the aggregate) in such business of any Proponent; and (B) the information required by Section 5(b)(iv).
 
) day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made, whichever is later.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
(iii)          To be timely, the written notice required by Section 5(b)(i) or 5(b)(ii) must be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred fiftieth (150th) day prior to the first anniversary of the date on which the corporation released its proxy materials to its stockholders for the prior year's annual meeting of stockholders or any longer period provided for by applicable law; , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than thirty (30) days prior to or delayed by more than thirty (30) days after the anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, for notice by the stockholder to be timely, such stockholder's written notice must be delivered to the Secretary not later than the close of business on the ninetieth (90
provided, however
th
(iv)          The written notice required by Section 5(b)(i) or 5(b)(ii) shall also set forth, as of the date of the notice and as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (each, a "Proponent" and collectively, the "Proponents"): (A) the name and address of each Proponent, as they appear on the corporation's books; (B) the class, series and number of shares of the corporation that are owned beneficially and of record by each Proponent; (C) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether oral or in writing) with respect to such nomination or proposal between or among any Proponent and any of its affiliates or associates, and any others (including their names) acting in concert, or otherwise under the agreement, arrangement or understanding, with any of the foregoing; (D) a representation that the Proponents are holders of record or beneficial owners, as the case may be, of shares of the corporation entitled to vote at the meeting and intend to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice (with respect to a notice under Section 5(b)(i)) or to propose the business that is specified in the notice (with respect to a notice under Section 5(b)(ii)); (E) a representation as to whether the Proponents intend to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of a sufficient number of holders of the corporation's voting shares to elect such nominee or nominees (with respect to a notice under Section 5(b)(i)) or to carry such proposal (with respect to a notice under Section 5(b)(ii)); (F) to the extent known by any Proponent, the name and address of any other stockholder supporting the proposal on the date of such stockholder's notice; and (G) a description of all Derivative Transactions (as defined below) by each Proponent during the previous twelve (12) month period, including the date of the transactions and the class, series and number of securities involved in, and the material economic terms of, such Derivative Transactions.
 
For purposes of Sections 5 and 6, a "Derivative Transaction" means any agreement, arrangement, interest or understanding entered into by, or on behalf or for the benefit of, any Proponent or any of its affiliates or associates, whether record or beneficial:
 
(w)          the value of which is derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares or other securities of the corporation,
 
(x)            which otherwise provides any direct or indirect opportunity to gain or share in any gain derived from a change in the value of securities of the corporation,
 
(y)           the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss, manage risk or benefit of security value or  price changes, or
 
(z)            which provides the right to vote or increase or decrease the voting power of, such Proponent, or any of its affiliates or associates, with respect to any securities of the corporation,
 
which agreement, arrangement, interest or understanding may include, without limitation, any option, warrant, debt position, note, bond, convertible security, swap, stock appreciation right, short position, profit interest, hedge, right to dividends, voting agreement, performance-related fee or arrangement to borrow or lend shares (whether or not subject to payment, settlement, exercise or conversion in any such class or series), and any proportionate interest of such Proponent in the securities of the corporation held by any general or limited partnership, or any limited liability company, of which such Proponent is, directly or indirectly, a general partner or managing member.
 
         A stockholder providing written notice required by Section 5(b)(i) or (ii) shall update and supplement such notice in writing, if necessary, so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice is true and correct in all material respects as of (i) the record date for the meeting and (ii) as of the date that is five (5) business days prior to the meeting and, in the event of any adjournment or postponement thereof, five (5) business days prior to any adjournment or postponement thereof.  In the case of an update and supplement pursuant to clause (i) of this Section 5(c), such update and supplement shall be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than five (5) business days after the record date for the meeting.  In the case of an update and supplement pursuant to clause (ii) of this Section 5(c), such update and supplement shall be delivered to, or mailed and received by, the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than two (2) business days prior to the date for the meeting, and, in the event of any adjournment or postponement thereof, two (2) business days prior to any adjournment or postponement thereof.
(c) 
 
         Notwithstanding anything in Section 5(b)(iii) to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors in an Expiring Class (as defined below) is increased and there is no public announcement of the appointment of a director to such a class or if no appointment was made, of the vacancy in such class, made by the corporation at least ten (10) days before the last day a stockholder may deliver a notice of nomination in accordance with Section 5(b)(iii), a stockholder's notice required by this Section 5 and which complies with the requirements in Section 5(b)(i), other than the timing requirements in Section 5(b)(iii), shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions in such Expiring Class, created by such increase, if it shall be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation.  For purposes of this Section 5(d), an "Expiring Class" shall mean a class of directors whose term shall expire at the next annual meeting of stockholders.
(d) 
 
         To be eligible to be a nominee for election or re-election as a director of the corporation pursuant to a nomination under clause (C) of Section 5(a), such nominee or a person on his or her behalf must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section 5(b)(iii) or Section 5(d), as applicable) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such nominee and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (A) is not and will not become a party to (i) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the corporation in the questionnaire or (ii) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law; (B) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director of the corporation that has not been disclosed therein; and (C) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the corporation, and will comply with, all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the corporation.
(e) 
 
         A person shall not be eligible for election or re-election as a director unless the person is nominated either in accordance with clause (A), (B) or (C) of Section 5(a).  Except as otherwise required by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made, or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in these Bylaws and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with these Bylaws, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall not be presented for stockholder action at the meeting and shall be disregarded. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, unless otherwise required by law, if a stockholder intending to make a nomination at a meeting pursuant to Section 5(b)(i) or to propose business at a meeting pursuant to Section 5(b)(ii) does not provide the information in the stockholder's notice required under Section 5(b)(i) or 5(b)(ii), as applicable, within the applicable time periods specified in this Section 5 (including any update and supplement required under Section 5(c)), or the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the meeting to make such nomination or to propose such business, or the Proponents shall not have acted in accordance with the representations required under Section 5(b)(iv)(E), such nomination or proposal shall not be presented for stockholder action at the meeting and shall be disregarded, as determined by the chairman of the meeting as described above, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such nominations or such business may have been solicited or received.
(f) 
 
         In order to include information with respect to a stockholder proposal in the proxy statement and form of proxy for a stockholders' meeting, a stockholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.   Nothing in these Bylaws shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the 1934 Act; provided, however, that any references in these Bylaws to the 1934 Act or the rules and regulations thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit the requirements applicable to proposals and/or nominations to be considered pursuant to Section 5(a) clause (C) of these Bylaws.
(g) 
         For purposes of Sections 5 and 6,
(h) 
 
(i)            "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press, Business Wire or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act; and
 
(ii)           "affiliates" and "associates" shall have the meanings set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
           .  (a)  Special meetings of the stockholders of the corporation may be called, for any purpose or purposes, by (i) the Chairman of the Board of Directors, (ii) the President, (iii) the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any such resolution is presented to the Board of Directors for adoption), or (iv) so long as required under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, by the holders of shares entitled to cast not less than ten percent (10%) of the votes at the meeting,  provided that such written request is in compliance with the requirements of Section 6(b) hereof ("Stockholder-Requested Meeting").  A request to call a special meeting pursuant to Section 6(a)(iv) shall not be valid unless made in accordance with the requirements and procedures set forth in this Section 6.  Except as may otherwise be required by law, the Board of Directors shall determine, in its sole judgment, the validity of any request under Section 6(a)(iv), including whether such request was properly made in compliance with these Bylaws.
SECTION 6.
Special Meetings
 
(b)           For a special meeting called pursuant to Section 6(a), the Board of Directors shall determine the time and place of such special meeting, subject to the provisions below with respect to a Stockholder-Requested Meeting.  Following determination of the time and place of the meeting, the Secretary shall cause a notice of meeting to be given to the stockholders entitled to vote, in accordance with the provisions of Section 7 of these Bylaws.  For a Stockholder-Requested Meeting, the request shall (i) be in writing, signed and dated by the stockholders who have who delivered the written request for the special meeting, (ii) set forth the purpose of calling the special meeting and include the information required by the stockholder's notice as set forth in Section 5(b)(i), including the questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 5(e) (for nominations for the election to the Board of Directors) and in Section 5(b)(ii) (for the proposal of business other than nominations), (iii) be delivered personally or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation.  The stockholder shall also update and supplement such information as required under Section 5(c).  If the Board of Directors determines that a request pursuant to Section 6(a)(iv) is valid, the Board shall determine the time and place, if any, of a Stockholder-Requested Meeting, which time shall be not less than ninety (90) nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days after the receipt of such request,  and shall set a record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting in the manner set forth in Section 37 hereof.  No business may be transacted at a special meeting, including a Stockholder-Requested Meeting, otherwise than as specified in the notice of meeting.
 
at the time of giving notice provided for in this paragraph.  In the event the corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder of record may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the corporation's notice of meeting, if written notice setting forth the information required by Section 5(b)(i) of these Bylaws shall be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation no later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such meeting or the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting.  The stockholder shall also update and supplement such information as required under Section 5(c).  In no event shall the public announcement
such nominee is proposed on behalf of a beneficial owner it may only be properly brought before the meeting, if such beneficial owner was the beneficial owner of shares of the corporation
(c)           Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any stockholder of the corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving notice provided for in this paragraph, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who delivers written notice to the Secretary of the corporation setting forth the information required by Section 5(b)(i); PROVIDED, that if
of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
 
(d)           Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6, a stockholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to matters set forth in this Section 6. Nothing in these Bylaws shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the 1934 Act; provided, however, that any references in these Bylaws to the 1934 Act or the rules and regulations thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit the requirements applicable to nominations for the election to the Board of Directors and/or proposals of other business to be considered pursuant to Section 6(a)(iv) or Section 6(c) of these Bylaws.
 
           .  Except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, notice, given in writing or by electronic transmission, of each meeting of stockholders shall be given not less than ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, such notice to specify the place, if any, date and hour and purpose or purposes of the meeting, and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at any such meeting.  If mailed, notice is given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the corporation.  Notice of the time, place, if any, and purpose of any meeting of stockholders may be waived in writing, signed by the person entitled to notice thereof, or by electronic transmission by such person, either before or after such meeting, and will be waived by any stockholder by his attendance thereat in person, by remote communication, if applicable, or by proxy, except when the stockholder attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.  Any stockholder so waiving notice of such meeting shall be bound by the proceedings of any such meeting in all respects as if due notice thereof had been given.
SECTION 7.
Notice of Meetings
 
           .  At all meetings of stockholders, except where otherwise provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation, or by these Bylaws, the presence, in person, by remote communication, if applicable, or by proxy duly authorized, of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  In the absence of a quorum, any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned, from time to time, either by the chairman of the meeting or by vote of the holders of a majority of the shares represented thereat, but no other business shall be transacted at such meeting.  The stockholders present at a duly called or convened meeting, at which a quorum is present, may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.  Except as otherwise provided by law or by applicable stock exchange or Nasdaq rules, or by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, all action taken by the holders of a majority of the vote cast, excluding abstentions, at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be valid and binding upon the corporation. PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that directors shall be elected in accordance with Section 15 hereof by a vote of the shares present in person, by remote communication, if applicable,  or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors.  Where a separate vote by a class or classes or series is required, except where otherwise provided by the statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a majority of the outstanding shares of such class or classes or series, present in person, by remote communication, if applicable, or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum entitled to take action with respect to that vote on that matter and, except where otherwise provided by the statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of the majority (and, in the case of the election of directors in accordance with Section 15 hereof) of the votes cast, including abstentions, by the holders of shares of such class or classes or series shall be the act of such class or classes or series.
SECTION 8.
Quorum
 
           .   Any meeting of stockholders, whether annual or special, may be adjourned from time to time either by the chairman of the meeting or by the vote of a majority of the shares casting votes, excluding abstentions.  When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, if any, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place, if any, thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken.  At the adjourned meeting, the corporation may transact any business, which might have been transacted at the original meeting.  If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30)
SECTION 9.
Adjournment and Notice of Adjourned Meetings
days or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
 
         .   For the purpose of determining those stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of the stockholders, except as otherwise provided by law, only persons in whose names shares stand on the stock records of the corporation on the record date, as provided in Section 12 of these Bylaws, shall be entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders.  Every person entitled to vote shall have the right to do so either in person, by remote communication, if applicable, or by an agent or agents authorized by a proxy granted in accordance with Delaware Law.  An agent so appointed need not be a stockholder.  No proxy shall be voted after three (3) years from its date of creation unless the proxy provides for a longer period.
SECTION 10.
Voting Rights
 
         .   If shares or other securities having voting power stand of record in the names of two (2) or more persons, whether fiduciaries, members of a partnership, joint tenants, tenants in common, tenants by the entirety, or otherwise, or if two (2) or more persons have the same fiduciary relationship respecting the same shares, unless the Secretary is given written notice to the contrary and is furnished with a copy of the instrument or order appointing them or creating the relationship wherein it is so provided, their acts with respect to voting shall have the following effect:  (a) if only one (1) votes, his or her act binds all; (b) if more than one (1) votes, the act of the majority so voting binds all; (c) if more than one (1) votes, but the vote is evenly split on any particular matter, each faction may vote the securities in question proportionally, or may apply to the Delaware Court of Chancery for relief as provided in  DGCL Section 217(b).  If the instrument filed with the Secretary shows that any such tenancy is held in unequal interests, a majority or even-split for the purpose of subsection (c) shall be a majority or even-split in interest.
SECTION 11.
Joint Owners of Stock
 
         .   The Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at said meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.  Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting (a) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (b) during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the corporation.  In the event that the corporation determines to make the list available on an electronic network, the corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to stockholders of the corporation.  The list shall be open to examination of any stockholder during the time of the meeting as provided by law.
SECTION 12.
List of Stockholders
 
         .   No action shall be taken by the stockholders except at an annual or special meeting of stockholders called in accordance with these Bylaws, and no action shall be taken by the stockholders by written consent.
SECTION 13.
Action Without Meeting
 
         .   (a)  At every meeting of stockholders, one of the directors designated as a Chairman of the Board of Directors, or if no directors have been so designated or such directors are absent, the Chief Executive Officer, or if the Chief Executive has not been appointed or is absent, the President, or, if the President is absent, a chairman of the meeting chosen by a majority in interest of the stockholders entitled to vote, present in person, by remote communication, if applicable, or by proxy, shall act as chairman.  The Secretary, or, in his or her absence, an Assistant Secretary directed to do so by the President, shall act as secretary of the meeting.
SECTION 14.
Organization
 
          The Board of Directors of the corporation shall be entitled to make such rules or regulations for the conduct of meetings of stockholders as it shall deem necessary, appropriate or convenient.  Subject to such rules and regulations of the Board of Directors, if any, the chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are necessary, appropriate or convenient for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, establishing an agenda or order of business for the meeting, making a determination concerning whether business is properly brought before the meeting, rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present, limitations on participation in such meeting to stockholders of record of the corporation and their duly authorized and constituted proxies and such other persons as the chairman shall permit, restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants and regulation of the opening and closing of the polls for balloting on matters which are
(b) 
to be voted on by ballot.  Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with rules of parliamentary procedure.
 
 
         .   The authorized number of directors of the corporation shall be fixed in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation.  Except as provided in Section 18 of this Article IV, a nominee for director shall be elected to the Board of Directors if the votes cast for such nominee's election exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election; provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any meeting of stockholders for which (i) the Secretary of the corporation receives a notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the Board of Directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for director set forth in Article III, Section 5(b)(iii) of these Bylaws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or before the tenth (10th) day before the corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders. Directors need not be stockholders unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation.  If for any cause, the directors shall not have been elected at an annual meeting, they may be elected as soon thereafter as convenient at a special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose in the manner provided in these Bylaws.
SECTION 15.
Number and Term of Office
 
         .   (a) .  The powers of the corporation shall be exercised, its business conducted and its property controlled by the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
SECTION 16.
Powers
General
 
          .  The Board may designate one or more directors to serve as a Chairman of the Board of Directors.  A director designated as a Chairman of the Board of Directors, when present, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors.  Each Chairman of the Board of Directors shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.
(b) 
Chairman of the Board of Directors
 
         .   Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the directors shall be divided into two classes designated as Class I and Class II, respectively. Directors shall be assigned to each class in accordance with a resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors.  At the first annual meeting of stockholders following November 30, 1997, the term of office of the Class I directors shall expire and Class I directors shall be elected for a full term of two years.  At the second annual meeting of stockholders following November 30, 1997, the term of office of the Class II directors shall expire and Class II directors shall be elected for a full term of two years.  At each succeeding annual meeting of stockholders, directors shall be elected for a full term of two years to succeed the directors of the class whose terms expire at such annual meeting.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, each director shall serve until his successor is duly elected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.  No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
SECTION 17.
Classes of Directors
 
         .   Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other causes and any newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors, shall, unless the Board of Directors determines by resolution that any such vacancies or newly created directorships shall be filled by stockholders, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors.  Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the director for which the vacancy was created or occurred and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified.  A vacancy in the Board of Directors shall be deemed to exist under this Bylaw in the case of the death, removal or resignation of any director.
SECTION 18.
Vacancies
 
         .   Any director may resign at any time by delivering his resignation in writing or by electronic transmission to the Secretary, such resignation to specify whether it will be effective at a
SECTION 19.
Resignation
particular time, upon receipt by the Secretary or at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  If no such specification is made, it shall be deemed effective at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  When one or more directors shall resign from the Board of Directors, effective at a future date, a majority of the directors then in office, including those who have so resigned, shall have power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when such resignation or resignations shall become effective, and each Director so chosen shall hold office for the unexpired portion of the term of the Director whose place shall be vacated and until his successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.
 
         .   Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, the Board of Directors or any individual director may be removed from office at any time with or without cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, entitled to vote at an election of directors (the "Voting Stock").
SECTION 20.
Removal
 
         .   (a) .  The annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held immediately before or after the annual meeting of stockholders and may be at the place where such meeting is held.  No notice of an annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be necessary and such meeting shall be held for the purpose of electing officers and transacting such other business as may lawfully come before it.
SECTION 21.
Meetings
Annual Meetings
 
          .  Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held in the office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 hereof.  Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, regular meetings of the Board of Directors may also be held at any place within or without the State of Delaware, or solely by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment, as designated by resolution of the Board of Directors or by the consent of all directors given in writing or by electronic transmission.
(b) 
Regular Meetings
 
          .  Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time and place within or without the State of Delaware, or solely by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment, whenever called by any of the directors designated as a Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any two of the directors.
(c) 
Special Meetings
 
          .  Members of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may participate in and hold meetings by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting by such means shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
(d) 
Meetings by Conference Telephone or Other Communications Equipment
 
          .  Notice of the time and place of all special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be given orally, in writing, by telephone, facsimile, telegraph, telex, electronic mail or any form of electronic transmission, during normal business hours, at least twenty-four (24) hours before the date and time of the meeting, or sent in writing to each director by first class mail, charges prepaid, at least three (3) days before the date of the meeting.  Such notice shall state the time and place, if any, of the special meeting of the Board of Directors, and the means to attend to the meeting through conference telephone or other communications equipment, if any.  Such notice shall state the time and place, if any, of the special meeting of the Board of Directors, and the means to attend to the meeting through conference telephone or other communication equipment, if any.  Notice of any meeting may be waived in writing or by electronic transmission at any time before or after the meeting and will be waived by any director by attendance thereat, except when the director attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
(e) 
Notice of Meetings
 
           .  The transaction of all business at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, however called or noticed, or wherever held, shall be as valid as though had at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum be present and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the directors not present who did not receive notice shall sign a written waiver of notice or shall waive notice by electronic transmission.  All such waivers shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
(f) 
Waiver of Notice
         .   (a) Unless the Certificate of Incorporation requires a greater number and except with respect to indemnification questions arising under Section 43 hereof, for which a quorum shall be one-third of the exact number of directors fixed from time to time in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation, a quorum of the Board of Directors shall consist of a majority of the exact number of directors fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, at any meeting whether a quorum be present or otherwise, a majority of the directors present may adjourn from time to time until the time fixed for the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors, without notice other than by announcement at the meeting.
SECTION 22.
Quorum and Voting
 
          At each meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum is present, all questions and business shall be determined by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present, unless a different vote be required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
(b) 
 
         .   Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and such writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
SECTION 23.
Action Without Meeting
 
         .   Directors shall be entitled to such compensation for their services as may be approved by the Board of Directors, including, if so approved, by resolution of the Board of Directors, a fixed sum and expenses of attendance, if any, for attendance at each regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors and at any meeting of a committee of the Board of Directors.  Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee, or otherwise and receiving compensation therefor.
SECTION 24.
Fees and Compensation
 
         .   (a) .  The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, appoint an Executive Committee to consist of one (1) or more members of the Board of Directors.  The Executive Committee, to the extent permitted by law and provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, including without limitation the power or authority to declare a dividend, to authorize the issuance of stock and to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger, and may authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to amending the Certificate of Incorporation (except that a committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the Board of Directors fix the designations and any of the preferences or rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the corporation or the conversion into, or the exchange of such shares for, shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the corporation or fix the number of shares of any series of stock or authorize the increase or decrease of the shares of any series), adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the corporation's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or amending the bylaws of the corporation.
SECTION 25.
Committees
Executive Committee
 
          .  The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, from time to time appoint such other committees as may be permitted by law.  Such other committees appointed by the Board of Directors shall consist of one (1) or more members of the Board of Directors and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the resolution or resolutions creating such committees, but in no event shall such committee have the powers denied to the Executive Committee in these Bylaws.
(b) 
Other Committees
 
          .  Each member of a committee of the Board of Directors shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and until his or her successors shall have been duly elected, unless sooner removed.  The Board of Directors, subject to the provisions of subsections (a) or (b) of this Bylaw may at any time increase or decrease the number of members of a committee or terminate the existence of a committee.  The membership of a committee member shall terminate on the date of his death or voluntary resignation from the committee or from the
(c) 
Term
Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors may at any time for any reason remove any individual committee member and the Board of Directors may fill any committee vacancy created by death, resignation, removal or increase in the number of members of the committee.  The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee, and, in addition, in the absence or disqualification of any member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
 
          .  Unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide, regular meetings of the Executive Committee or any other committee appointed pursuant to this Section 25 shall be held at such times and places, if any, or solely by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment, as determined by the Board of Directors, or by any such committee, and when notice thereof has been given to each member of such committee, no further notice of such regular meetings need be given thereafter.  Special meetings of any such committee may be held at any place, or solely by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment, as determined from time to time by such committee, and may be called by any director who is a member of such committee, upon written notice to the members of such committee of the time and place, if any, of such special meeting and the means to attend to the meeting through conference telephone or other communications equipment, if any, given in the manner provided for the giving of written notice to members of the Board of Directors of special meetings of the Board of Directors.  Notice of any special meeting of any committee may be waived in writing or by electronic transmission at any time before or after the meeting and will be waived by any director by attendance thereat, except when the director attends such special meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.  A majority of the authorized number of members of any such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee.
(d) 
Meetings
 
         .   At every meeting of the directors, one of the directors designated as a Chairman of the Board of Directors, or if no directors have been so designated or such directors are absent, the Chief Executive Officer, or if the Chief Executive Officer is absent, the President, or if the President is absent, the most senior Vice President, or, in the absence of any such officer, a chairman of the meeting chosen by a majority of the directors present, shall preside over the meeting.  The Secretary, or in his or her absence, an Assistant Secretary directed to do so by the President, shall act as secretary of the meeting.
SECTION 26.
Organization
 
         .   The officers of the corporation shall include, if and when designated by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, one or more Vice Presidents, the Secretary and the Chief Financial Officer, all of whom shall be appointed at the annual meeting of the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors (or if so empowered in accordance with this Section 27) may also appoint other officers and agents with such powers and duties as it shall deem necessary.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Directors may empower the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation to appoint such officers, other than the President, Secretary or Chief Financial Officer, as the business of the corporation may require.  The Board of Directors may assign such additional titles to one or more of the officers as it shall deem appropriate.  Any one person may hold any number of offices of the corporation at any one time unless specifically prohibited therefrom by law.  The salaries and other compensation of the officers of the corporation shall be fixed by or in the manner designated by the Board of Directors or a designated committee of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 27.
Officers Designated
 
         .   (a) .  All officers shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and until their successors shall have been duly elected and qualified, unless sooner removed.  Any officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the Board of Directors.  If the office of any officer becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy may be filled by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 28.
Tenure and Duties of Officers
General
 
          .  The Chief Executive Officer shall be the general manager and chief executive officer of the corporation and shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction, and control of the business and officers of the corporation.  He or she shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders if no director shall have been designated a Chairman of the Board of Directors or if such director is absent and shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of chief executive officer of a corporation, and shall have other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
(b) 
Duties of Chief Executive Officer
 
          .  In the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all of the restrictions upon, the Chief Executive Officer.  The President shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for the President by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
(c) 
Duties of President
 
          .  In the absence or disability of the President, the Vice Presidents in order of their rank as fixed by the Board of Directors, or if not ranked, the Vice President designated by the Board of Directors, shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the President.  The Vice Presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.
(d) 
Duties of Vice Presidents
 
          .  The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, a book of minutes in written form of the proceedings of the Board of Directors, committees of the Board, and stockholders.  Such minutes shall include all waivers of notice, consents to the holding of meetings, or approvals of the minutes of meetings executed pursuant to these Bylaws or the DGCL.  The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept at the principal executive office or at the office of the corporation's transfer agent or registrar, a record of its stockholders, giving the name and addresses of all stockholders and the number and class of shares held by each.  The Secretary shall give or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors required by these Bylaws or by law to be given, and shall keep the seal of the corporation in safe custody, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.
(e) 
Duties of Secretary
 
           .  The Chief Financial Officer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of account in written form or any other form capable of being converted into written form.  The Chief Financial Officer shall deposit all monies and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the corporation with such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors.  He or she shall disburse all funds of the corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, shall render to the President, Chief Executive Officer and Directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his or her transactions as Chief Financial Officer and of the financial condition of the corporation, shall perform other duties commonly incident to his or her office and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.  The Chief Executive Officer or President may direct the Vice President Finance to assume and perform the duties of the Chief Financial Officer in the absence or disability of the Chief Financial Officer, and the Vice President Finance shall perform other duties commonly incident to his or her office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Chief Financial Officer shall designate from time to time.
(f) 
Duties of Chief Financial Officer
 
         .   The Board of Directors may from time to time delegate the powers or duties of any officer to any other officer or agent, notwithstanding any provision hereof.
SECTION 29.
Delegation of Authority
 
         .   Any officer may resign at any time by giving notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the Board of Directors or to the President or to the Secretary.  Any such resignation shall be effective when received by the person or persons to whom such notice is given, unless a later time is specified therein, in which event the resignation shall become effective at such later time.  Unless otherwise specified in such notice, the acceptance of any such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.  Any resignation shall be without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the corporation under any contract with the resigning officer.
SECTION 30.
Resignations
         .   Any officer may be removed from office at any time, either with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors in office at the time, or by the unanimous consent given in writing or by electronic transmission by the directors in office at the time, or by any committee or superior officers upon whom such power of removal may have been conferred by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 31.
Removal
 
         .   The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, determine the method and designate the signatory officer or officers, or other person or persons, to execute on behalf of the corporation any corporate instrument or document, or to sign on behalf of the corporation the corporate name without limitation, or to enter into contracts on behalf of the corporation, except where otherwise provided by law or these Bylaws, and such execution or signature shall be binding upon the corporation.  Unless otherwise specifically determined by the Board of Directors or otherwise required by law, promissory notes, deeds of trust, mortgages and other evidences of indebtedness of the corporation, and other corporate instruments or documents requiring the corporate seal, and certificates of shares of stock owned by the corporation, shall be executed, signed or endorsed by the Chief Executive Officer, or the President, Chief Financial Officer or any Vice President.  All other instruments and documents requiring the corporate signature, but not requiring the corporate seal, may be executed as aforesaid or in such other manner as may be directed by the Board of Directors.  All checks and drafts drawn on banks or other depositaries on funds to the credit of the corporation or in special accounts of the corporation shall be signed by such person or persons as the Board of Directors shall authorize so to do.  Unless authorized or ratified by the Board of Directors or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.
SECTION 32.
Execution of Corporate Instruments
 
         .   All stock and other securities of other corporations owned or held by the corporation for itself, or for other parties in any capacity, shall be voted, and all proxies with respect thereto shall be executed, by the person authorized so to do by resolution of the Board of Directors, or, in the absence of such authorization, by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or any Vice President.
SECTION 33.
Voting of Securities Owned by the Corporation
 
         .   Certificates for the shares of stock of the corporation shall be in such form as is consistent with the Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law.  Every holder of stock in the corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the corporation by the Chief Executive Officer, or the President or any Vice President and by the or Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, certifying the number of shares owned by him in the corporation.  Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be facsimiles.  In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue.  Each certificate shall state upon the face or back thereof, in full or in summary, all of the powers, designations, preferences, and rights, and the limitations or restrictions of the shares authorized to be issued or shall, except as otherwise required by law, set forth on the face or back a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional, or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.  Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to this section or otherwise required by law or with respect to this section a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other
SECTION 34.
Form and Execution of Certificates
special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.  Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing stock of the same class and series shall be identical.
 
         .   A new certificate or certificates shall be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen, or destroyed.  The corporation may require, as a condition precedent to the issuance of a new certificate or certificates, the owner of such lost, stolen, or destroyed certificate or certificates, or his legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as it shall require or to give the corporation a surety bond in such form and amount as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed.
SECTION 35.
Lost Certificates
 
         .   (a)  Transfers of record of shares of stock of the corporation shall be made only upon its books by the holders thereof, in person or by attorney duly authorized, and upon the surrender of a properly endorsed certificate or certificates for a like number of shares.
SECTION 36.
Transfers
 
          The corporation shall have power to enter into and perform any agreement with any number of stockholders of any one or more classes of stock of the corporation to restrict the transfer of shares of stock of the corporation of any one or more classes owned by such stockholders in any manner not prohibited by the DGCL
(b) 
 
         .   (a)  In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting.  If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.  A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
SECTION 37.
Fixing Record Dates
 
          In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days prior to such action.  If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any stockholder of record seeks to have the stockholders authorize the calling of a special meeting, such stockholder shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date for taking such action.  The Board of Directors shall, within ten (10) days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing such record date, which date shall not be more than ten (10) days after the date upon which the resolution fixing such record date is adopted by the Board of Directors.
(b) 
 
         .   The corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.
SECTION 38.
Registered Stockholders
         .   All bonds, debentures and other corporate securities of the corporation, other than stock certificates (covered in Section 34), may be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President, or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, and the corporate seal impressed thereon or a facsimile of such seal imprinted thereon and attested by the signature of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, or the Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that where any such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall be authenticated by the manual signature, or where permissible facsimile signature, of a trustee under an indenture pursuant to which such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall be issued, the signatures of the persons signing and attesting the corporate seal on such bond, debenture or other corporate security may be the imprinted facsimile of the signatures of such persons.  Interest coupons appertaining to any such bond, debenture or other corporate security, authenticated by a trustee as aforesaid, shall be signed by the Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the corporation or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or bear imprinted thereon the facsimile signature of such person.  In case any officer who shall have signed or attested any bond, debenture or other corporate security, or whose facsimile signature shall appear thereon or on any such interest coupon, shall have ceased to be such officer before the bond, debenture or other corporate security so signed or attested shall have been delivered, such bond, debenture or other corporate security nevertheless may be adopted by the corporation and issued and delivered as though the person who signed the same or whose facsimile signature shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer of the corporation.
SECTION 39.
Execution of Other Securities
 
         .   Dividends upon the capital stock of the corporation, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors pursuant to law at any regular or special meeting.  Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the capital stock, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation.
SECTION 40.
Declaration of Dividends
 
         .   Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in their absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the corporation, or for such other purpose as the Board of Directors shall think conducive to the interests of the corporation, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created.
SECTION 41.
Dividend Reserve
 
         .   The fiscal year of the corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 42.
Fiscal Year
 
         .   (a) .  The corporation shall indemnify its directors and executive officers (for the purposes of this Article XI, "executive officers shall have the meaning defined in Rule 3b-7 promulgated under the 1934 Act) to the fullest extent not prohibited by the DGCL; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the corporation may modify the extent of such indemnification by individual contracts with its directors and executive officers; and, PROVIDED, FURTHER, that the corporation shall not be required to indemnify any director or
SECTION 43.
Indemnification of Directors, Executive Officers, Other Officers, Employees and Other Agents
Directors and Executive Officers
executive officer in connection with any proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless (i) such indemnification is expressly required to be made by law, (ii) the proceeding was authorized by the Board of Directors of the corporation, (iii) such indemnification is provided by the corporation, in its sole discretion, pursuant to the powers vested in the corporation under the DGCL or (iv) such indemnification is required to be made under subsection (d).
 
          .  The corporation shall have power to indemnify its other officers, employees and other agents as set forth in the DGCL.
(b) 
Other Officers, Employees and Other Agents
 
          .  The corporation shall advance to any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or executive officer of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director or executive officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, prior to the final disposition of the proceeding, promptly following request therefor, all expenses incurred by any director or executive officer in connection with such proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay said amounts if it should be determined ultimately that such person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Bylaw, no advance shall be made by the corporation to an executive officer of the corporation (except by reason of the fact that such executive officer is or was a director of the corporation in which event this paragraph shall not apply) in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, if a determination is reasonably and promptly made (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to the proceeding, or (ii) if such quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable, a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, that the facts known to the decision-making party at the time such determination is made demonstrate clearly and convincingly that such person acted in bad faith or in a manner that such person did not believe to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation.
(c) 
Expenses
 
          .  Without the necessity of entering into an express contract, all rights to indemnification and advances to directors and executive officers under this Bylaw shall be deemed to be contractual rights and be effective to the same extent and as if provided for in a contract between the corporation and the director or executive officer.  Any right to indemnification or advances granted by this Bylaw to a director or executive officer shall be enforceable by or on behalf of the person holding such right in any court of competent jurisdiction if (i) the claim for indemnification or advances is denied, in whole or in part, or (ii) no disposition of such claim is made within ninety (90) days of request therefor.  The claimant in such enforcement action, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting his claim.  In connection with any claim for indemnification, the corporation shall be entitled to raise as a defense to any such action that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct that make it permissible under the DGCL for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed.  In connection with any claim by an executive officer of the corporation (except in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such executive officer is or was a director of the corporation) for advances, the corporation shall be entitled to raise a defense as to any such action clear and convincing evidence that such person acted in bad faith or in a manner that such person did not believe to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, or with respect to any criminal action or proceeding that such person acted without reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was lawful. Neither the failure of the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the DGCL, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.  In any suit brought by a director or executive officer to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, the burden of proving that the director or executive officer is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Article XI or otherwise shall be on the corporation.
(d) 
Enforcement
 
          .  The rights conferred on any person by this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as
(e) 
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding office.  The corporation is specifically authorized to enter into individual contracts with any or all of its directors, officers, employees or agents respecting indemnification and advances, to the fullest extent not prohibited by the DGCL.
 
           .  The rights conferred on any person by this Bylaw shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or other agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
(f) 
Survival of Rights
 
          .  To the fullest extent permitted by the DGCL, the corporation, upon approval by the Board of Directors, may purchase insurance on behalf of any person required or permitted to be indemnified pursuant to this Bylaw.
(g) 
Insurance
 
          .  Any repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall only be prospective and shall not affect the rights under this Bylaw in effect at the time of the alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act that is the cause of any proceeding against any agent of the corporation.
(h) 
Amendments
 
           .  If this Bylaw or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each director and executive officer to the full extent not prohibited by any applicable portion of this Bylaw that shall not have been invalidated, or by any other applicable law.
(i) 
Saving Clause
 
           .  For the purposes of this Bylaw, the following definitions shall apply:
(j) 
Certain Definitions
 
           The term "proceeding" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, the investigation, preparation, prosecution, defense, settlement, arbitration and appeal of, and the giving of testimony in, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative.
(i) 
 
          The term "expenses" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, court costs, attorneys' fees, witness fees, fines, amounts paid in settlement or judgment and any other costs and expenses of any nature or kind incurred in connection with any proceeding.
(ii) 
 
         The term the "corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, and employees or agents, so that any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
(iii) 
 
         References to a "director," "executive officer," "officer," "employee," or "agent" of the corporation shall include, without limitation, situations where such person is serving at the request of the corporation as, respectively, a director, executive officer, officer, employee, trustee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise.
(iv) 
 
          References to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation which    imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee, or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted   in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the corporation" as referred to in this Bylaw.
(v) 
         .   (a) .  Written notice to stockholders of stockholder meetings shall be given as provided in Section 7 herein.  Without limiting the manner by which notice may otherwise be given effectively to stockholders under any agreement or contract with such stockholder, and except as otherwise required by law, written notice to stockholders for purposes other than stockholder meetings may be sent by U.S. mail or nationally recognized overnight courier, or by facsimile, telegraph or telex or by electronic mail or other electronic means.
SECTION 44.
Notices
Notice to Stockholders
 
          .  Any notice required to be given to any director may be given by the method stated in subsection (a), as otherwise stated in these Bylaws, or by facsimile, telex, telegram, electronic transmission or by overnight delivery service, except that such notice other than one which is delivered personally shall be sent to such address as such director shall have filed in writing with the Secretary, or, in the absence of such filing, to the last known post office address of such director.
(b) 
Notice to Directors
 
          .  An affidavit of mailing, executed by a duly authorized and competent employee of the corporation or its transfer agent appointed with respect to the class of stock affected, specifying the name and address or the names and addresses of the stockholder or stockholders, or director or directors, to whom any such notice or notices was or were given, and the time and method of giving the same, shall in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts therein contained.
(c) 
Affidavit of Mailing
 
          .  All notices given by mail, as above provided, shall be deemed to have been given as at the time of mailing, and all notices given by facsimile, telex,  telegram or electronic transmission shall be deemed to have been given as of the sending time recorded at time of transmission.
(d) 
Time Notices Deemed Given
 
          .  It shall not be necessary that the same method of giving notice be employed in respect of all recipients of notice, but one permissible method may be employed in respect of any one or more, and any other permissible method or methods may be employed in respect of any other or others.
(e) 
Methods of Notice
 
           .  The period or limitation of time within which any stockholder may exercise any option or right, or enjoy any privilege or benefit, or be required to act, or within which any director may exercise any power or right, or enjoy any privilege, pursuant to any notice sent him in the manner above provided, shall not be affected or extended in any manner by the failure of such stockholder or such director to receive such notice.
(f) 
Failure to Receive Notice
 
          .  Whenever notice is required to be given, under any provision of law or of the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the corporation, to any person with whom communication is unlawful, the giving of such notice to such person shall not be required and there shall be no duty to apply to any governmental authority or agency for a license or permit to give such notice to such person.  Any action or meeting which shall be taken or held without notice to any such person with whom communication is unlawful shall have the same force and effect as if such notice had been duly given.  In the event that the action taken by the corporation is such as to require the filing of a certificate under any provision of the DGCL, the certificate shall state, if such is the fact and if notice is required, that notice was given to all persons entitled to receive notice except such persons with whom communication is unlawful.
(g) 
Notice to Person with Whom Communication Is Unlawful
 
          .  Whenever notice is required to be given, under any provision of law or the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the corporation, to any stockholder to whom (i) notice of two consecutive annual meetings, and all notices of meetings or of the taking of action by written consent without a meeting to such person during the period between such two consecutive annual meetings, or (ii) all, and at least two, payments (if sent by first class mail) of dividends or interest on securities during a twelve-month period, have been mailed addressed to such person at his address as shown on the records of the corporation and have been returned undeliverable, the giving of such notice to such person shall not be required.  Any action or meeting which shall be taken or held without notice to such person shall have the same force and effect as if such notice had been duly given.  If any such person shall deliver to the corporation a written notice setting forth his then
(h) 
Notice to Person with Undeliverable Address
current address, the requirement that notice be given to such person shall be reinstated.  In the event that the action taken by the corporation is such as to require the filing of a certificate under any provision of the DGCL, the certificate need not state that notice was not given to persons to whom notice was not required to be given pursuant to this paragraph.
 
           .  Except as otherwise prohibited under  the DGCL, any notice given under the provisions of the DGCL, the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws shall be effective if given by a single written notice to stockholders who share an address if consented to by the stockholders at that address to whom such notice is given. Such consent shall have been deemed to have been given if such stockholder fails to object in writing to the corporation within 60 days of having been given notice by the corporation of its intention to send the single notice. Any consent shall be revocable by the stockholder by written notice to the corporation.
(i) 
Notice to Stockholders Sharing an Address
 
         .   Subject to paragraph (h) of Section 43 of the Bylaws, the Bylaws may be altered or amended or new Bylaws adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock.  The Board of Directors shall also have the power to adopt, amend, or repeal the Bylaws.
SECTION 45.
Amendments
 
         .   The corporation may not, directly or indirectly, including through any subsidiary, extend or maintain credit, arrange for the extension of credit, or renew an extension of credit, in the form of a personal loan to or for any member of the Board of Directors or any executive officer (or equivalent thereof) of the corporation.
SECTION 46.
Loans to Directors or Executive Officers
 
         .   (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Bylaw, the Board of Directors shall cause an annual report to be sent to each stockholder of the corporation not later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the close of the corporation's fiscal year.  Such report shall include a balance sheet as of the end of such fiscal year and an income statement and statement of changes in financial position for such fiscal year, accompanied by any report thereon of independent accountants, or if there is no such report, the certificate of an authorized officer of the corporation that such statements were prepared without audit from the books and records of the corporation.  When there are more than one hundred (100) stockholders of record of the corporation's shares, as determined by Section 605 of the California Corporations Code, additional information as required by Section 1501(b) of the California Corporations Code shall also be contained in such report, provided that if the corporation has a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the 1934 Act, that Act shall take precedence.  Such report shall be sent to stockholders at least fifteen (15) days prior to the next annual meeting of stockholders after the end of the fiscal year to which it relates.
SECTION 47.
Annual Report
 
          If and so long as there are fewer than 100 holders of record of the corporation's shares, the requirement of sending of an annual report to the stockholders of the corporation is hereby expressly waived.
(b) 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Jodi Sorensen Adobe Systems Incorporated 408-536-2084 jodi.sorensen@adobe.com
 
John Derryberry A&R Partners 650-762-2817 jderryberry@arpartners.com
 
Internet and Media Veteran Dan Rosensweig Joins Adobe's Board of Directors
 
Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq: ADBE) today announced that former Yahoo! chief operating officer (COO) Dan Rosensweig has been elected to its board of directors, effective Jan. 12, 2009.
SAN JOSE, Calif.  Jan. 13, 2009 
 
"We are pleased to welcome Dan to our board of directors," said John Warnock, co-chairman of the board. "With his deep media expertise and a rich history of building powerful user experiences, he will play a key strategic role on our board."
 
Rosensweig is an Operating Principal of the Quadrangle Group, a private investment firm, where he focuses on the firm's media and communications private equity business. Rosensweig has played leadership roles at some of the Internet's largest and highest profile companies, serving most recently as Chief Operating Officer of Yahoo! where he was responsible for worldwide operations. At Yahoo!, Rosensweig oversaw product development, marketing and operations, including the company's six business units and advertising sales. Prior to Yahoo!, he was president of CNET Networks, a position he took following the merger of ZDNet and CNET in 2000. There he played a critical role in overseeing the successful integration of the two companies and was responsible for many of the company's global operations. Before joining CNET Networks, Rosensweig was an 18-year veteran of Ziff-Davis, where he last served as president and chief executive officer (CEO) of ZDNet. Under Rosensweig's leadership, ZDNet became a separate, public company and one of the top websites in the world.
 
Adobe also announced the retirements of two of its long-time board members, Colleen M. Pouliot and Delbert W. Yocam, effective March 31, 2009. Pouliot, an attorney and former senior vice president and general counsel for Adobe, has served on Adobe's board since 2001. Including her service as an employee, she has been with Adobe for more than 20 years. Yocam, an independent consultant, has served on Adobe's board for 18 years. Yocam is former chairman and CEO of Borland Software, former president and COO of Tektronix, Inc. and was Apple's first COO.
"We are grateful to Colleen and Del for their dedicated service and substantial contributions to Adobe's success over the years," said Chuck Geschke, co-chairman of the board. "During their board stewardship, Adobe has become one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We wish them well in their future endeavors."
 
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
 
Adobe revolutionizes how the world engages with ideas and information  anytime, anywhere and through any medium. For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
 
2009 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


