FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20100622161536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On June 22, 2010, Adobe issued a press release announcing its financial results for its second fiscal quarter ended June 4, 2010. A copy of this press release is furnished and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this report and the exhibit attached hereto are being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
 
The attached press release includes non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP tax rate and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, and forecasted non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share.
 
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. We believe that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
 
For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, we use non-GAAP financial measures, net of the related tax impacts, which exclude: (A) stock-based and deferred compensation expenses; (B) restructuring charges; (C) amortization of purchased intangibles; (D) investment gains and losses; and (E) the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes.  We use these non-GAAP financial measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and give us a better understanding of how we should invest in research and development and fund infrastructure and go-to-market strategies.  We use these measures to help us make budgeting decisions, for example, as between product development expenses and research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate our internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.
 
As described above, we exclude the following items from one or more of our non-GAAP measures:
 
A..  Stock-based compensation expense consists of charges for employee stock options, restricted stock units, performance shares and employee stock purchases in accordance with current GAAP related to stock-based compensation including expense associated with stock-based compensation related to unvested options and restricted stock units assumed in connection with our acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005 and our acquisition of Omniture in October 2009. As we apply current stock-based compensation standards, we believe that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of these standards to our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  Although stock-based compensation expense is calculated in accordance with current GAAP and constitutes an ongoing and recurring expense, such expense is excluded from non-GAAP results because it is not an expense that typically requires or will require cash settlement by us and because such expense is not used by us to assess the core profitability of our business operations. Deferred compensation expense consists of charges associated with movements in our liability related to our deferred compensation plan. Although deferred compensation expense constitutes an ongoing and recurring expense, such expense is excluded from non-GAAP results because it is not an expense that typically requires current cash settlement by us and because such expense is not used by us to assess the core profitability of our business operations. We further believe these measures are useful to investors in that they allow for greater transparency to certain line items in our financial statements.  In addition, excluding these items from various non-GAAP measures facilitate comparisons to our competitors' operating results.
            Stock-based and deferred compensation expenses and related tax impact
B..  In November 2009, we initiated restructuring activities to align our costs in connection with our fiscal 2010 operating plan. As a result, we recognized costs related to termination benefits for former Adobe employees whose positions were eliminated and the consolidation of leased facilities. In November 2008, we initiated restructuring actions associated with realigning our business strategies based on then-current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognized costs related to termination benefits for former Adobe employees whose positions were eliminated and the consolidation of leased facilities. We also incurred restructuring charges associated with realigning our business upon the acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005 (the "Macromedia Restructuring"). The actions in the Macromedia Restructuring were taken to eliminate certain duplicative activities, focus our resources on future growth opportunities and reduce our cost structure.  In connection with the Macromedia Restructuring, we recognized costs related to termination benefits for former Adobe employees whose positions were eliminated, the closure of Adobe facilities and the cancellation of certain contracts held by us.  We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
            Restructuring charges and related tax impact
 
C..  We incur amortization of purchased intangible assets primarily in connection with our acquisition of Macromedia in December 2005 and our acquisition of Omniture in October 2009. Purchased intangibles include (i) developed technology and (ii) core technology and patents. Developed technology relates primarily to Macromedia and Omniture products across all of Macromedia and Omniture product lines that had reached technological feasibility as of December 2005 and October 2009, respectively. Core technology and patents represent primarily a combination of Macromedia's and Omniture's processes, patents and trade secrets developed through years of experience in design and development of their products. We expect to amortize for accounting purposes the fair value of the purchased intangibles based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible assets will be consumed as revenue is generated.  Although the intangible assets generate revenue for us, we exclude this item because this expense is non-cash in nature and because we believe the non-GAAP financial measures excluding this item provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates our internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to our competitors' operating results. We also incurred on-going charges related to amortization of purchased intangible assets in connection with certain small acquisitions. We exclude these items because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
            Amortization of purchased intangibles and related tax impact
 
D.  We incur investment gains and losses principally from realized gains or losses from the sale and exchange of marketable equity investments, other-than-temporary declines in the value of marketable and non-marketable equity securities, unrealized holding gains and losses associated with our deferred compensation plan assets (classified as trading securities) and gains and losses on the sale of equity securities held indirectly through investment partnerships. We do not actively trade publicly held securities nor do we rely on these securities positions for funding our ongoing operations.  We exclude gains and losses and the related tax impact on these equity securities because these items are unrelated to our ongoing business and operating results.
.            Investment gains and losses and related tax impact
 
E.             . Excluding the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes assists investors in understanding the tax provision associated with those adjustments and the effective tax rate related to our ongoing operations.
Income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes
 
We believe that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our financial results in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures and that is why we qualify the use of non-GAAP financial information in a statement when non-GAAP information is presented.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)   Exhibits
 
99.1     Press release issued on June 22, 2010 entitled "Adobe Reports Record Revenue."
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Adobe Reports Record Revenue
 
Company Announces Plan to Repurchase $1.6 Billion of Stock
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  June 22, 2010
Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today reported financial results for its second quarter fiscal year 2010 ended June 4, 2010.
 
In the second quarter of fiscal 2010, Adobe achieved record revenue of $943.0 million, compared to $704.7 million reported for the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and $858.7 million reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.  This represents 34 percent year-over-year revenue growth.  Adobe's second quarter revenue target range was $875 to $925 million.
 
"Record revenue and our strong Q2 financial performance were driven by the successful launch of Creative Suite 5," said Shantanu Narayen, president and CEO of Adobe.  "Our growth is being fueled by the explosion of digital content across all media and devices."
 
Second Quarter Fiscal 2010 GAAP Results
 
Adobe's GAAP diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 were $0.28, based on 533.3 million weighted average shares. This compares with GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.24 reported in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 based on 528.0 million weighted average shares, and GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0. 24 reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 based on 532.6 million weighted average shares.
 
GAAP operating income was $227.3 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2010, compared to $161.4 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and $176.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.  As a percent of revenue, GAAP operating income in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was 24.1 percent, compared to 22.9 percent in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and 20.6 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
 
GAAP net income was $148.6 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2010, compared to $126.1 million reported in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and $127.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
 
Second Quarter Fiscal 2010 Non-GAAP Results
 
Adobe's non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 were $0.44.  This compares with non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.35 reported in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $0.40 reported in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
 
Adobe's non-GAAP operating income was $334.5 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2010, compared to  $237.7 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and $289.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.  As a percent of revenue, non-GAAP operating income in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was 35.5 percent, compared to 33.7 percent in both the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
 
Non-GAAP net income was $234.2 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2010, compared to $185.0 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 and $211.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
 
Reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided at the end of this press release.
 
Third Quarter Fiscal 2010 Financial Targets
 
For the third quarter of fiscal 2010, Adobe is targeting revenue of $950 million to $1 billion.  The Company's operating margin is targeted to be 25.5 percent to 27.5 percent on a GAAP basis, and 36 percent to 37 percent on a non-GAAP basis.  In addition, the Company is targeting its share count to be between 532 million and 534 million shares, and it is targeting non-operating expense between $12.5 million and $13.5 million.  Adobe's GAAP and non-GAAP tax rate is expected to be approximately 25 percent.
 
These targets lead to a third quarter diluted earnings per share target range of $0.32 to $0.37 on a GAAP basis, and an earnings per share target range of $0.46 to $0.50 on a non-GAAP basis.
 
Reconciliation between these GAAP and non-GAAP financial targets is provided at the end of this press release.
 
Stock Repurchase Program
 
Adobe also announced its Board of Directors has granted authority for the Company to repurchase up to $1.6 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2012.  This new program modifies the existing share-based program to offset dilution to a dollar-based authority.
 
"This stock repurchase program reaffirms our confidence and optimism in the long-term future of Adobe, and our commitment to returning value to our stockholders," said Mark Garrett, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Adobe.
Forward-Looking Statements Disclosure
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including those related to revenue, operating margin, non-operating expense, tax rate, share count, earnings per share, anticipated stock repurchases and business momentum, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: failure to develop, market and distribute new products and services or upgrades or enhancements to existing products and services that meet customer requirements, introduction of new products, services and business models by existing and new competitors, failure to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, the economic downturn and continued uncertainty in the financial markets and other adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which Adobe does business, difficulty in predicting revenue from new businesses, failure to realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and difficulty in integrating such acquisitions, costs related to intellectual property acquisitions, disputes and litigation, inability to protect Adobe's intellectual property from third-party infringers, or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure, security vulnerabilities in our products and systems, interruptions or delays in our service or service from third-party service providers that host or deliver services, security or privacy breaches, or failure in data collection, failure to manage Adobe's sales and distribution channels and third-party customer service and technical support providers effectively, disruption of Adobe's business due to catastrophic events, risks associated with global operations, currency fluctuations, risks associated with our debt service obligations, changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles, impairment of Adobe's goodwill or amortizable intangible assets, changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations, Adobe's inability to attract and retain key personnel, impairment of Adobe's investment portfolio due to deterioration of the capital markets, and market risks associated with Adobe's equity investments. For further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, individuals should refer to Adobe's SEC filings.
 
The financial information set forth in this press release reflects estimates based on information available at this time.  These amounts could differ from actual reported amounts stated in Adobe's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for our second quarter ended June 4, 2010, which the Company expects to file in July 2010. Adobe does not undertake an obligation to update forward-looking statements.
 
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
 
Adobe revolutionizes how the world engages with ideas and information  anytime, anywhere and through any medium. For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
 
 2010 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved.  Adobe, Adobe Creative Suite and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except par value; unaudited)
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands; unaudited)
 
 
Non-GAAP Results
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
The following tables show Adobe's GAAP results reconciled to non-GAAP results included in this release.
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (continued)
(In thousands)
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter Non-GAAP Financial Targets
(In millions, except per share data)
 
The following tables show the Company's third quarter fiscal year 2010 GAAP financial targets reconciled to non-GAAP financial targets included in this release.
 
 
 
Adobe continues to provide all information required in accordance with GAAP, but believes evaluating its ongoing operating results may not be as useful if an investor is limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures.  Accordingly, Adobe uses non-GAAP financial information to evaluate its ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes.  Adobe's management does not itself, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Adobe presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate Adobe's operating results in a manner that focuses on what Adobe believes to be its ongoing business operations.  Adobe's management believes it is useful for itself and investors to review, as applicable,  both GAAP information that includes the stock-based and deferred compensation impact, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangibles, investment gains and losses, and the related tax impact of all of these items, the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes, and the non-GAAP measures that exclude such information in order to assess the performance of Adobe's business and for planning and forecasting in subsequent periods.  Whenever Adobe uses such a non-GAAP financial measure, it provides a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most closely applicable GAAP financial measure.  Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure as detailed above.


