FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20111108170359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
 
On November 8, 2011, Adobe Systems Incorporated ("Adobe" or "we") announced it is restructuring its business to better align its resources around its Digital Media and Digital Marketing strategies (the "Restructuring Plan"). As a result, we expect to eliminate approximately 750 full-time positions worldwide. We expect to record in the aggregate approximately $87 million to $94 million in pre-tax restructuring charges associated with this Restructuring Plan. Included in these charges are (i) approximately $17 million to $19 million primarily related to the consolidation of leased facilities and (ii) approximately $70 million to $75 million related to employee severance arrangements. We expect to record approximately $73 million to $78 million of these charges in the fourth fiscal quarter ending December 2, 2011. We expect to complete the majority of the activities related to the Restructuring Plan by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Substantially all of these charges will result in cash expenditures.
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On November 8, 2011, Adobe issued two press releases, which are included as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
        
Exhibits
 
99.1
              
Press release issued on November 8, 2011 entitled "Adobe Reaffirms Fourth Quarter FY2011 Revenue Target, Restructures to Align Business around Digital Media, Digital Marketing"
 
99.2
              
Press release issued on November 8, 2011 entitled "Adobe to Outline Growth Strategy at Financial Analyst Meeting"
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Adobe Reaffirms Fourth Quarter FY2011 Revenue Target, Restructures to Align Business around Digital Media, Digital Marketing
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.
 Nov. 8, 2011  Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today provided a business update for its fourth quarter fiscal year 2011, ending Dec. 2, 2011.  The company also announced plans to further align its business around the explosive growth categories of Digital Media and Digital Marketing solutions.
 
Adobe Restructures to Align Business around Growth Opportunities
 
Adobe is investing aggressively in Digital Media and Digital Marketing, two growing market areas.  In Digital Media, the company is the industry leader in content authoring solutions, enabling customers to create, distribute and monetize digital content.  In Digital Marketing, the company intends to be the leader in solutions to manage, measure and optimize digital marketing and advertising.
 
In order to better align resources around Digital Media and Digital Marketing, Adobe is restructuring its business. This will result in the elimination of approximately 750 full-time positions primarily in North America and Europe. We expect to record in the aggregate approximately $87 million to $94 million in pre-tax restructuring charges. Included in these charges are (i) approximately $17 million to $19 million primarily related to the consolidation of leased facilities and (ii) approximately $70 million to $75 million related to employee severance arrangements. We expect to record approximately $73 million to $78 million of these charges in the fiscal quarter ending Dec. 2, 2011.
 
See separate release issued today for more information regarding the company's strategy and goals with its business realignment.
 
Adobe Reaffirms Fourth Quarter FY2011 Revenue Target Range
 
With approximately four weeks remaining in the quarter, the company believes it will achieve fourth quarter revenue within the $1.075 billion to $1.125 billion range it previously provided on Sept. 20, 2011.
 
"We expect to report record revenue within the fourth quarter target range we previously issued," said Mark Garrett, executive vice president and CFO of Adobe.
 
 
Based on the impact of the restructuring charge discussed above that the company expects to take in the fourth quarter, Adobe updated its targeted GAAP diluted earnings per share range to be $0.30 to $0.38 in the quarter.   The company had previously targeted a fourth quarter diluted earnings per share range of $0.41 to $0.50 on a GAAP basis.
 
Adobe continues to target a diluted earnings per share range of $0.57 to $0.64 on a non-GAAP basis in the fourth quarter.  A reconciliation between the company's GAAP and non-GAAP financial targets is provided at the end of this press release.
 
Adobe plans to report its fourth quarter results on Dec. 15, 2011 after the market closes.
 
Adobe to Webcast its 2011 Financial Analyst Meeting in New York
 
Adobe will discuss its fourth quarter business update and restructuring at its Financial Analyst Meeting tomorrow.
 
 
The live video webcast will last approximately seven hours.  For those unable to watch the live webcast, an archive of the event will be available on Adobe's Investor Relations website for a limited time.  Listening to the live webcast via Adobe Connect requires Adobe Flash Player version 10 or later. Firewalls designed to protect corporate information can prevent access to the webcast.
 
Forward-Looking Statements Disclosure
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including those related to revenue, earnings per share, non-GAAP earnings per share, the potential growth in our target markets, our ability to align our business to successfully respond to opportunities in those markets and changes in our industry, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: failure to develop, market and distribute new products and services or upgrades or enhancements to existing products and services that meet customer requirements, introduction of new products, services and business models by existing and new competitors, failure to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, continued uncertainty in economic conditions and the financial markets and other adverse changes in general political or economic conditions in any of the major countries in which Adobe does business, difficulty in predicting revenue from new businesses, failure to realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and difficulty in integrating such acquisitions, costs related to intellectual property acquisitions, disputes and litigation, inability to protect Adobe's intellectual property from third-party infringers, or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure, security vulnerabilities in our products and systems, interruptions or delays in our service or service from third-party service providers that host or deliver services, security or privacy breaches, or failure in data collection, failure to manage Adobe's sales and distribution channels and third-party customer service and technical support providers effectively, disruption of Adobe's business due to catastrophic events, risks associated with global operations, currency fluctuations, risks associated with our debt service obligations, changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles, impairment of Adobe's goodwill or amortizable intangible assets, changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations, Adobe's inability to
attract and retain key personnel, and impairment of Adobe's investment portfolio due to deterioration of the capital markets. For further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, individuals should refer to Adobe's SEC filings.
 
Adobe does not undertake an obligation to update forward-looking statements.
 
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
 
Adobe is changing the world through digital experiences. For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
 
 2011 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe, the Adobe logo, are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
Fourth Quarter Non-GAAP Financial Target Reconciliation
 
(In millions, except per share data and percentages)
 
The following table shows Adobe's fourth quarter fiscal year 2011 GAAP financial earnings per share target range reconciled to its non-GAAP diluted earnings per share target range included in this release.
 
 
Adobe continues to provide all information required in accordance with GAAP, but believes evaluating its ongoing operating results may not be as useful if an investor is limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures.  Accordingly, Adobe uses non-GAAP financial information to evaluate its ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes.  Adobe's management does not itself, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Adobe presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate Adobe's operating results in a manner that focuses on what Adobe believes to be its ongoing business operations.  Adobe's management believes it is useful for itself and investors to review, as applicable,  both GAAP information that includes the stock-based and deferred compensation expenses, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased intangibles, investment gains and losses and the related tax impact of all of these items, income tax adjustments, the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes, and the non-GAAP measures that exclude such information in order to assess the performance of Adobe's business and for planning and forecasting in subsequent periods.  Whenever Adobe uses such a non-GAAP financial measure, it provides a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most closely applicable GAAP financial measure.  Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure as detailed above.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Adobe to Outline Growth Strategy at Financial Analyst Meeting
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.
 Nov. 8, 2011  Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) will host a Financial Analyst Meeting tomorrow in New York, where company executives will outline its strategy to target the explosive growth categories of Digital Media and Digital Marketing and its plans to drive long-term revenue growth.  Adobe will also comment on its business update for its fourth quarter, ending Dec. 2, 2011. See separate release.
 
Company Focuses on Digital Media, Digital Marketing Opportunities
 
Moving forward, Adobe will offer customers the ability to make, manage, measure and monetize content and applications across all devices.  The company has long been the leader in content authoring solutions with its Adobe Creative Suite product franchise. Its Digital Media growth strategy revolves around its recently announced Creative Cloud and will enable the company to rapidly deliver new product capabilities and services; penetrate untapped market segments; and increase overall engagement with customers.  Important elements include:
 
                 
Continuing to deliver innovation on PCs through its Creative Suite software while extending its customer reach through tablet-based touch apps and Cloud-based software delivery
                 
Shifting resources to support even greater investment in HTML5, through tools like Adobe Dreamweaver,  Adobe Edge and PhoneGap, recently added through the acquisition of Nitobi
                 
Focusing Flash resources on delivering the most advanced PC web experiences, including gaming and premium video, as well as mobile apps
                 
Enhancing digital publishing solutions to empower media companies to profit through publishing their content to any screen
                 
Investing in media monetization, including the large growth opportunity in video advertising, facilitated by the acquisition of Auditude announced last week
                 
Extending its leadership in document services with its Acrobat product line and increasing its focus on the growing category of electronic contracts and signatures through the recent acquisition of EchoSign
 
While Adobe's Digital Media business centers on content creation and publishing, its Digital Marketing business is focused on enabling customers to maximize the impact of their digital experiences across devices and media types.  Adobe's Digital Marketing growth agenda is focused on becoming a mission-critical solution provider and partner to marketers.  Key elements include:
 
                 
Extending Adobe's leadership in analytics and reporting to drive rapid growth in new areas like mobile and social
                 
Personalizing digital experiences across all digital channels, ensuring that customers can deliver the most relevant, customized content in real time
                 
Driving multichannel campaign management, enabling marketers to make informed decisions about all aspects of a marketing campaign, from search to email to display advertising
                 
Accelerating media monetization solutions for content publishers by enabling them to segment their audiences and maximize their advertising revenue, leveraging the company's acquisitions of Demdex and Auditude this year
 
"Our mission is to produce the world's content and maximize the impact of that content," said Shantanu Narayen, Adobe president and CEO. "Adobe is doubling down in the Digital Media and Digital Marketing categories, markets rich with opportunities for innovation and growth."
 
Company Unlocks Potential for Higher Revenue Growth
 
Moving into FY2012, Adobe will focus its research and development and sales and marketing investments on these two opportunities. In Digital Media, the company expects to attract new customers and increase recurring revenue through its new subscription offering. In order to drive increased Digital Marketing bookings, which are recognized as recurring revenue, the company will reduce its investment, and expected license revenue, in certain enterprise solution product lines. These changes will reduce FY2012 revenue growth by approximately four to five percentage points. As a result, the company expects annual revenue growth of approximately four to six percent in FY2012. However, the company expects non-GAAP operating margins in FY2012 to be similar to those it will achieve in FY2011. Beyond FY2012, the company anticipates double-digit revenue growth with an increasing percentage of recurring revenue.
 
"We believe that by focusing resources on two large initiatives and shifting our business model, we can drive faster and more predictable growth in FY2013 and beyond," said Mark Garrett, Adobe executive vice president and CFO.
 
Company executives will discuss more details about Adobe's growth potential and business model adjustments at tomorrow's Financial Analyst Meeting.
 
Adobe to Webcast Its 2011 Financial Analyst Meeting in New York
Adobe will provide a live webcast of its Financial Analyst Meeting tomorrow.
 
 
The live video webcast will last approximately seven hours.  For those unable to watch the live webcast, an archive of the event will be available on Adobe's Investor Relations website for a limited time.  Listening to the live webcast via Adobe Connect requires Adobe Flash Player version 10 or later. Firewalls designed to protect corporate information can prevent access to the webcast.
 
Forward-Looking Statements Disclosure
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including those related to revenue, including recurring revenue, bookings, non-GAAP operating margin, the potential growth in our target markets, our ability to focus our business to successfully respond to opportunities in those markets and changes in our industry, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: failure to develop, market and distribute new products and services or upgrades or enhancements to existing products and services that meet customer requirements, introduction of new products, services and business models by existing and new competitors, failure to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, continued uncertainty in economic conditions and the financial markets and other adverse changes in general political or economic conditions in any of the major countries in which Adobe does business, difficulty in predicting revenue from new businesses, failure to realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and difficulty in integrating such acquisitions, costs related to intellectual property acquisitions, disputes and litigation, inability to protect Adobe's intellectual property from third-party infringers, or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure, security vulnerabilities in our products and systems, interruptions or delays in our service or service from third-party service providers that host or deliver services, security or privacy breaches, or failure in data collection, failure to manage Adobe's sales and distribution channels and third-party customer service and technical support providers effectively, disruption of Adobe's business due to catastrophic events, risks associated with global operations, currency fluctuations, risks associated with our debt service obligations, changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles, impairment of Adobe's goodwill or amortizable intangible assets, changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations, Adobe's inability to attract and retain key personnel, and impairment of Adobe's investment portfolio due to deterioration of the capital markets. For further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, individuals should refer to Adobe's SEC filings.
 
Adobe does not undertake an obligation to update forward-looking statements.
 
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
 
Adobe is changing the world through digital experiences. For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
 
 2011 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe, the Adobe logo, are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


