FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20110426172154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(e)
         
Amendment of 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and Approval of 2011 Executive Cash Performance Bonus Plan
 
1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
 
On April 21, 2011, at the Company's 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting"), the stockholders of Adobe Systems Incorporated (the "Company") approved an amendment to the Company's 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") that increased the maximum number of shares of the Company's common stock that may be issued under the ESPP by 17 million shares, for an aggregate reserve of 93 million shares. The amendment to the ESPP previously had been approved, subject to stockholder approval, by the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board of Directors").
 
A summary of the ESPP amendment is set forth in our proxy statement for the Annual Meeting filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 10, 2011 (the "Proxy Statement"). That summary and the foregoing description of the amendment are qualified in their entirety by reference to the text of the ESPP, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
2011 Executive Cash Performance Bonus Plan
 
On April 21, 2011, at the Annual Meeting, our stockholders approved a new Executive Cash Performance Bonus Plan (the "2011 Executive Master Bonus Plan"), which will allow bonuses paid under it to "covered employees" to qualify as deductible "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The 2011 Executive Master Bonus Plan previously had been approved, subject to stockholder approval, by the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
 
A summary of the 2011 Executive Master Bonus Plan is set forth in our Proxy Statement. That summary and the foregoing description are qualified in their entirety by reference to the text of the 2011 Executive Master Bonus Plan, which was filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 28, 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.03.
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
(a)
        
Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws
 
Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws provide that our Board of Directors be divided into two classes, with each class having a two-year term.
 
Certificate of Amendment to Restated Certificate of Incorporation
 
On April 21, 2011, at the Annual Meeting, our stockholders approved a Certificate of Amendment to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Amendment") to declassify the Board of Directors and provide for the annual election of all directors. The Amendment was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on April 21, 2011 and was effective as of such date. Pursuant to the Amendment, directors who have been elected to two-year terms prior to the filing of the Amendment (including directors elected at the 2011 Annual Meeting), will complete those terms. Thereafter, their successors will be elected to one-year terms and from and after the 2013 Annual Meeting, all directors will stand for election annually. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Amendment, which is filed as Exhibit 3.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Certificate of Elimination
 
On April 25, 2011, we filed a Certificate of Elimination of Series A Preferred Stock (the "Certificate of Elimination") with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to eliminate the designation of 2,000,000 shares of our Preferred Stock as Series A Preferred Stock. The Certificate of Elimination was effective on April 25, 2011. With the filing of the Certificate of Elimination, we once again have 2,000,000 shares of undesignated Preferred Stock. No shares of Series A Preferred Stock were outstanding and no shares of Preferred Stock are currently designated or outstanding. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Certificate of Elimination, which is filed as Exhibit 3.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Restated Certificate of Incorporation
 
On April 25, 2011, we filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which integrated all prior amendments to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Amendment and the Certificate of Elimination, but did not further amend the provisions of the certificate of incorporation. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation was effective on April 25, 2011. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which is filed as Exhibit 3.3 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Amended and Restated Bylaws
 
Our Board of Directors previously approved certain amendments to our Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Restated Bylaws"), which became effective upon the filing of the Amendment, with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on April 21, 2011, as follows:
 
                                         
Article III, Section 5(b)(i) of our Restated Bylaws was amended to require stockholder nominees for director to provide a statement as to whether such nominee, if elected, will comply with our policies and procedures as applicable to the Board of Directors.
 
                                         
Article IV, Section 15 of our Restated Bylaws was clarified to state that abstentions would have no effect on whether the votes cast for a nominee's election to the Board of Directors exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election.
 
                                         
Article IV, Section 17 of our Restated Bylaws was amended to eliminate the Board of Director's classified structure in the same manner as the Amendment.
 
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Restated Bylaws, which are filed as Exhibit 3.4 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
At the Annual Meeting, held on April 21, 2011, the Company's stockholders approved the seven proposals listed below. The final results for the votes regarding each proposal are set forth below. The proposals are described in detail in the Company's Proxy Statement.
 
1. Elect four Class II members of the Board of Directors to serve for a two-year term:
 
 
2.  Approve the amendment of the 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
 
 
3.  Approve the adoption of the 2011 Executive Cash Performance Bonus Plan.
 
 
4. Ratify the appointment of KPMG LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for our fiscal year ending on December 2, 2011.
 
 
5.  Approve the Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Adobe Systems Incorporated to eliminate our classified Board structure.
 
 
6.  Approve an advisory resolution on executive compensation.
 
 
7. Advisory vote on the frequency of the advisory vote on executive compensation.
 
 
Based on the Board of Directors' recommendation in the Proxy Statement and the voting results with respect to the advisory vote on the frequency of the advisory vote on executive compensation, on April 21, 2011 the Board of Directors resolved that the Company will hold an advisory vote on executive compensation annually.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
        
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 3.1
 
ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED,
a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:
 
FIRST:
  The name of this corporation is Adobe Systems Incorporated.
 
SECOND:
The original Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation was filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on May 9, 1997, and the original name of the corporation was Adobe Systems (Delaware) Incorporated.
 
THIRD: 
The Board of Directors of the corporation, acting in accordance with Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, adopted resolutions to amend Section 2 of Paragraph A of Article V of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation to read in its entirety as follows:
 
"(2)         Subject to the other provisions of this paragraph, the Board of Directors is and shall remain divided into two classes until the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, with the directors in each class serving for a term expiring at the second annual meeting of stockholders held after their election.  Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the terms of the members of the Board of Directors shall initially be as follows: (i) at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the directors whose terms expire at that meeting or such directors' successors shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; and (ii) at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and at each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders.  The classification of the Board of Directors shall terminate at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and all directors shall be elected in accordance with clause (ii) above.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article, each director shall serve until his successor is duly elected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.  No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director."
 
FOURTH:
Thereafter pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors this Certificate of Amendment was submitted to the stockholders of the corporation for their approval, and was
 
 
duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of the corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
 
FIFTH:
All other provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall remain in full force and effect.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be signed by its President and Chief Executive Officer and attested to by its Secretary in San Jose, California this 21
ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
st
 day of April, 2011.
 
 

EXHIBIT 3.2
 
ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
, a corporation organized and existing under the Delaware General Corporation Law (the ""), does hereby certify that the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Company's Board of Directors:
Company
 
WHEREAS
,
pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Board by its Certificate of Incorporation and, pursuant to the provisions of Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Board designated 2,000,000 shares of the Company's preferred stock as Series A Preferred Stock (the ""), pursuant to a Certificate of Designation of Series A Preferred Stock filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the "") on June 29, 1997.
Series A Preferred
Delaware Secretary of State
 
WHEREAS
, the Certificate of Designation of the Series A Preferred was integrated into a Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company as filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on June 22, 2001 and corrected by the Certificate of Correction of Restated Certificate of Incorporation as filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on April 10, 2003 (collectively, the ""), which restated and integrated and did not further amend the certificate of incorporation of the Company.
Restated Certificate
 
WHEREAS
,
the terms of the Series A Preferred were subsequently amended by the Board by a Certificate of Designation of Series A Preferred Stock, which was filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on May 22, 2003 (the "" and, together with the Restated Certificate, the "").
Amended Certificate of Designation
Certificate of Incorporation
 
WHEREAS
, no shares of Series A Preferred are currently outstanding.
 
WHEREAS
,
the Board deems it advisable and in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to approve a certificate of elimination to eliminate from the Certificate of Incorporation all matters set forth therein with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED
, that the Certificate of Elimination, be, and it hereby is, approved in the form presented to the Board (the "");
Certificate of Elimination
 
 
RESOLVED FURTHER
, that no shares of the Series A Preferred are outstanding and that no shares of the Series A Preferred will be issued subject to the Certificate of Designation previously filed with the Delaware Secretary of State with respect to the Series A Preferred; and
 
RESOLVED FURTHER
, that the officers of the Company be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed, for and on behalf of the Company, to execute the Certificate of Elimination and to file such Certificate of Elimination with the Delaware Secretary of State pursuant to Section 151(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law ("") setting forth these resolutions in order to eliminate from the Certificate of Incorporation all matters set forth therein with respect to the Series A Preferred.
DGCL
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the Company has caused this Certificate of Elimination to be signed by its duly authorized officer this 25
th
 day of April, 2011.
 
 

EXHIBIT 3.3
 
ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:
 
FIRST:
The name of this corporation is Adobe Systems Incorporated.
 
SECOND:
The original Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation was filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on May 9, 1997, and the original name of the corporation was Adobe Systems (Delaware) Incorporated.
 
THIRD:
Pursuant to Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation as heretofore amended and supplemented are hereby restated and integrated into the single instrument which is hereinafter set forth, and which is entitled "Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Adobe Systems Incorporated," without further amendment and without any discrepancy between the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation as heretofore amended and supplemented and the provisions of such single instrument as hereinafter set forth.
 
FOURTH:
The Board of Directors of the corporation has duly adopted this Restated Certificate of Incorporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware in the form set forth as follows:
 
The name of this corporation is Adobe Systems Incorporated.
 
The address of the registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware is 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400 City of Wilmington, 19808 County of New Castle, and the name of the registered agent of the corporation in the State of Delaware at such address is Corporation Service Company.
 
The purpose of this corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
 
A.           
This corporation is authorized to issue two classes of stock to be designated, respectively, "Common Stock" and "Preferred Stock." The total number of shares which the corporation is authorized to issue is Nine Hundred Two Million (902,000,000) shares.  Nine Hundred Million (900,000,000) shares shall be Common Stock, each having a par value of one-hundredth of one cent ($0.0001), and Two Million (2,000,000) shares shall be Preferred Stock, each having a par value of one-hundredth of one cent ($0.0001).
 
B.           
The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series.  The Board of Directors is hereby authorized, by filing a certificate (a "") pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, to fix or alter from time to time the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of any wholly unissued series of Preferred Stock, and to establish from time to time the number of shares constituting any such series or any of them; and to increase of decrease the number of shares of any series subsequent to the issuance of shares of that series, but not below the number of shares of such series then outstanding.  In case the number of shares of any series shall be decreased in accordance with the foregoing sentence, the shares constituting such decrease shall resume the status that they had prior to the adoption of the resolution originally fixing the number of shares of such series.
Preferred Stock Designation
 
For the management of the business and for the conduct of the affairs of the corporation, and in further definition, limitation and regulation of the powers of the corporation, of its directors and of its stockholders or any class thereof, as the case may be, it is further provided that:
 
A.
 
(1)          
The management of the business and the conduct of the affairs of the corporation shall be vested in its Board of Directors.  The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be fixed exclusively by one or more resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors.
(2)          
Subject to the other provisions of this paragraph, the Board of Directors is and shall remain divided into two classes until the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, with the directors in each class serving for a term expiring at the second annual meeting of stockholders held after their election.  Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the terms of the members of the Board of Directors shall initially be as follows: (i) at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the directors whose terms expire at that meeting or such directors' successors shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; and (ii) at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and at each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders.  The classification of the Board of Directors shall terminate at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and all directors shall be elected in accordance with clause (ii) above.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article, each director shall serve until his successor is duly elected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.  No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
 
(3)          
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, the Board of Directors or any individual director may be removed from office at any time with or without cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, entitled to vote at an election of directors (the "").
Voting Stock
 
(4)          
Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other causes and any newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors, shall, unless the Board of Directors determines by resolution that any such vacancies or newly created directorships shall be filled by the stockholders, except as otherwise provided by law, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and not by the stockholders.  Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the director for which the vacancy was created or occurred and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified.
 
B.
 
(1)          
Subject to paragraph (h) of Section 43 of the Bylaws, the Bylaws may be altered or amended or new Bylaws adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the Voting Stock.  The Board of Directors shall also have the power to adopt, amend or repeal the Bylaws.
 
(2)          
The directors of the corporation need not be elected by written ballot unless the Bylaws so provide.
 
(3)          
No action shall be taken by the stockholders of the corporation except at an annual or special meeting of stockholders called in accordance with the Bylaws.
 
(4)          
Special meetings of the stockholders of the corporation may by called, for any purpose or purposes, by (i) the Chairman of the Board of Directors, (ii) the President, (iii) the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any such resolution is presented to the Board of Directors for adoption) or (iv) by the holders of the shares entitled to cast not less than ten percent (10%) of the votes at the meeting, and shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as the Board of the Directors shall fix.
(5)          
Advance notice of stockholder nominations for the election of directors and of business to be brought by stockholders before any meeting of the stockholders of the corporation shall be given in the manner provided in the Bylaws of the corporation.
 
A.           
A director of the corporation shall not be personally liable to the corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for any breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation or law (iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit.  If the Delaware General Corporation Law is amended after approval by the stockholders of this Article to authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the personal liability of directors, then the liability of a director shall be eliminated of limited to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as so amended.
 
B.           
Any repeal or modification of this Article VI shall be prospective and shall not affect the rights under this Article VI in effect at the time of the alleged occurrence of any act or omission to act giving rise to liability or indemnification.
 
A.           
The corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, except as provided in paragraph B of this Article VII, and all rights conferred upon the stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.
 
B.           
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation or any provision or law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote, but in addition to any affirmative vote of the holders of any particular class or series of the Voting Stock required by law, this Certificate of Incorporation or any Preferred Stock Designation, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend or repeal Articles V, VI, and VII.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, this Certificate has been subscribed this 25
th
day of April, 2011 by the undersigned who affirms that the statements made herein are true and correct.
 

EXHIBIT 3.4
 
SECTION 1.
          
Registered Office
.  The registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.
 
SECTION 2.
          
Other Offices
.  The corporation shall also have and maintain an office or principal place of business at such place as may be fixed by the Board of Directors, and may also have offices at such other places, both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the corporation may require.
 
SECTION 3.
          
Corporate Seal
.  The corporate seal shall consist of a die bearing the name of the corporation and the inscription, "Corporate Seal-Delaware."  Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
 
SECTION 4.
          
Place of Meetings
.  Meetings of the stockholders of the corporation may be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors, or, if not so designated, then at the office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 hereof.  The Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, determine that the meeting shall not be held at any place, but may instead be held solely by means of remote communication as provided under the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "DGCL").
 
SECTION 5.
          
Annual Meeting
.  (a)  The annual meeting of the stockholders of the corporation, for the purpose of election of directors and for such other business as may properly come before it, shall be held on such date and at such time as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.  At an annual meeting only such business shall be conducted as is a proper matter for stockholder action under the DGCL and as shall have been properly brought before the meeting.  Matters may be properly brought before the annual meeting, only as follows: (A) brought before the meeting and specified pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting of the stockholders, (B) otherwise brought specifically by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (C) by any stockholder of the corporation who was a stockholder of record who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 5; PROVIDED, that if such matter is proposed on behalf of a beneficial owner it may only be properly brought before the meeting, if such beneficial owner was the beneficial owner of shares of the corporation at the time of the giving of the stockholder's notice provided for in Section 5(b) below.  Clause (C) above shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations and submit other business (other than matters properly included in the corporation's notice of meeting of stockholders and proxy statement under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (the "1934 Act")) before an annual meeting of the stockholders.
(b)
          
At an annual meeting of the stockholders, the following procedures shall apply in order for a matter to be properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder.
 
(i)
           
For nominations for election to the Board of Directors to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (C) of Section 5(a) of these Bylaws, the stockholder must deliver written notice to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation on a timely basis as set forth in Section 5(b)(iii) and must update and supplement such written notice on a timely basis as set forth in Section 5(c). Such stockholder's notice shall set forth:  (A) as to each nominee such stockholder proposes to nominate at the meeting: (1) the name, age, business address and residence address of such nominee, (2) the principal occupation or employment of such nominee, (3) the class and number of shares of each class of capital stock of the corporation which are owned of record and beneficially by such nominee, (4) the date or dates on which such shares were acquired and the investment intent of such acquisition, (5) a statement whether such nominee, if elected, intends to tender promptly following such person's failure to receive the required vote for election or re-election at the next meeting at which such person would face election or re-election, an irrevocable resignation effective upon acceptance of such resignation by the Board of Directors, in accordance with the corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines, (6) a statement whether such nominee, if elected, intends to comply with the corporation's policies and procedures as applicable to members of the Board of Directors, including those set forth in the corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines, (7) with respect to each nominee for election or re-election to the Board of Directors, include a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 5(e) of these Bylaws, and (8) such other information concerning such nominee as would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement soliciting proxies for the election of such nominee as a director in an election contest (even if an election contest is not involved), or that is otherwise required to be disclosed pursuant to Section 14 of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (B) the information required by Section 5(b)(iv). The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such proposed nominee.
 
(ii)
          
For business other than nominations for election to the Board of Directors to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (C) of Section 5(a) of these Bylaws, the stockholder must deliver written notice to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation on a timely basis as set forth in Section 5(b)(iii), and must update and supplement such written notice on a timely basis as set forth in Section 5(c).  Such stockholder's notice shall set forth:  (A) as to each matter such stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, (1) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at such meeting, (2) the text of the proposal to be presented at the meeting, (3) a statement in support of the proposal, (4) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person, by remote communication, if applicable, or by proxy at the meeting to bring such business before the meeting, (5) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business, (6) the class, series and number of shares of the corporation which are owned of record and beneficially owned by the stockholder, and (7) any material interest (including any anticipated benefit of such business to any Proponent (as defined below) other than solely as a result of its ownership of the corporation's capital stock, that is material to any Proponent individually, or to the Proponents in the aggregate) in such business of any Proponent; and (B) the information required by Section 5(b)(iv).
 
(iii)
         
To be timely, the written notice required by Section 5(b)(i) or 5(b)(ii) must be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred fiftieth (150th) day prior to the first anniversary of the date on which the corporation released its proxy materials to its stockholders for the prior year's annual meeting of stockholders or any longer period provided for by applicable law; , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than thirty (30) days prior to or delayed by more than thirty (30) days after the anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, for notice by the stockholder to be timely, such stockholder's written notice must be delivered to the Secretary not later than the close of business on the ninetieth (90
provided, however
th
) day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made, whichever is later.  Notwithstanding the
 
foregoing, in no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
 
(iv)
         
The written notice required by Section 5(b)(i) or 5(b)(ii) shall also set forth, as of the date of the notice and as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (each, a "Proponent" and collectively, the "Proponents"): (A) the name and address of each Proponent, as they appear on the corporation's books; (B) the class, series and number of shares of the corporation that are owned beneficially and of record by each Proponent; (C) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether oral or in writing) with respect to such nomination or proposal between or among any Proponent and any of its affiliates or associates, and any others (including their names) acting in concert, or otherwise under the agreement, arrangement or understanding, with any of the foregoing; (D) a representation that the Proponents are holders of record or beneficial owners, as the case may be, of shares of the corporation entitled to vote at the meeting and intend to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice (with respect to a notice under Section 5(b)(i)) or to propose the business that is specified in the notice (with respect to a notice under Section 5(b)(ii)); (E) a representation as to whether the Proponents intend to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of a sufficient number of holders of the corporation's voting shares to elect such nominee or nominees (with respect to a notice under Section 5(b)(i)) or to carry such proposal (with respect to a notice under Section 5(b)(ii)); (F) to the extent known by any Proponent, the name and address of any other stockholder supporting the proposal on the date of such stockholder's notice; and (G) a description of all Derivative Transactions (as defined below) by each Proponent during the previous twelve (12) month period, including the date of the transactions and the class, series and number of securities involved in, and the material economic terms of, such Derivative Transactions.
 
For purposes of Sections 5 and 6, a "Derivative Transaction" means any agreement, arrangement, interest or understanding entered into by, or on behalf or for the benefit of, any Proponent or any of its affiliates or associates, whether record or beneficial:
 
(w)
         
the value of which is derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares or other securities of the corporation,
 
(x)
           
which otherwise provides any direct or indirect opportunity to gain or share in any gain derived from a change in the value of securities of the corporation,
 
(y)
          
the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss, manage risk or benefit of security value or price changes, or
 
(z)
           
which provides the right to vote or increase or decrease the voting power of, such Proponent, or any of its affiliates or associates, with respect to any securities of the corporation,
 
which agreement, arrangement, interest or understanding may include, without limitation, any option, warrant, debt position, note, bond, convertible security, swap, stock appreciation right, short position, profit interest, hedge, right to dividends, voting agreement, performance-related fee or arrangement to borrow or lend shares (whether or not subject to payment, settlement, exercise or conversion in any such class or series), and any proportionate interest of such Proponent in the securities of the corporation held by any general or limited partnership, or any limited liability company, of which such Proponent is, directly or indirectly, a general partner or managing member.
 
(c)
          
A stockholder providing written notice required by Section 5(b)(i) or (ii) shall update and supplement such notice in writing, if necessary, so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice is true and correct in all material respects as of (i) the record date for the meeting and (ii) as of the date that is five (5) business days prior to the meeting and, in the event of any adjournment or postponement thereof, five (5) business days prior to any adjournment or postponement thereof.  In the case of an update and supplement pursuant to clause (i) of this Section 5(c), such update and supplement shall be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than five (5) business days after the record date for the meeting.  In the case of an update and supplement pursuant to clause (ii) of this Section 5(c), such update and supplement shall be delivered to, or mailed and received by, the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later
than two (2) business days prior to the date for the meeting, and, in the event of any adjournment or postponement thereof, two (2) business days prior to any adjournment or postponement thereof.
(d)
          
Notwithstanding anything in Section 5(b)(iii) to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors in an Expiring Class (as defined below) is increased and there is no public announcement of the appointment of a director to such a class or if no appointment was made, of the vacancy in such class, made by the corporation at least ten (10) days before the last day a stockholder may deliver a notice of nomination in accordance with Section 5(b)(iii), a stockholder's notice required by this Section 5 and which complies with the requirements in Section 5(b)(i), other than the timing requirements in Section 5(b)(iii), shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions in such Expiring Class, created by such increase, if it shall be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation.  For purposes of this Section 5(d), an "Expiring Class" shall mean a class of directors whose term shall expire at the next annual meeting of stockholders.
 
(e)
          
To be eligible to be a nominee for election or re-election as a director of the corporation pursuant to a nomination under clause (C) of Section 5(a), such nominee or a person on his or her behalf must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section 5(b)(iii) or Section 5(d), as applicable) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such nominee and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (A) is not and will not become a party to (i) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the corporation in the questionnaire or (ii) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law; (B) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director of the corporation that has not been disclosed therein; and (C) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the corporation, and will comply with, all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, code of conduct, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the corporation.
 
(f)
           
A person shall not be eligible for election or re-election as a director unless the person is nominated either in accordance with clause (A), (B) or (C) of Section 5(a).  Except as otherwise required by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made, or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in these Bylaws and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with these Bylaws, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall not be presented for stockholder action at the meeting and shall be disregarded. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, unless otherwise required by law, if a stockholder intending to make a nomination at a meeting pursuant to Section 5(b)(i) or to propose business at a meeting pursuant to Section 5(b)(ii) does not provide the information in the stockholder's notice required under Section 5(b)(i) or 5(b)(ii), as applicable, within the applicable time periods specified in this Section 5 (including any update and supplement required under Section 5(c)), or the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the meeting to make such nomination or to propose such business, or the Proponents shall not have acted in accordance with the representations required under Section 5(b)(iv)(E), such nomination or proposal shall not be presented for stockholder action at the meeting and shall be disregarded, as determined by the chairman of the meeting as described above, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such nominations or such business may have been solicited or received.
 
(g)
          
In order to include information with respect to a stockholder proposal in the proxy statement and form of proxy for a stockholders' meeting, a stockholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.   Nothing in these Bylaws shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to
Rule 14a-8 under the 1934 Act; provided, however, that any references in these Bylaws to the 1934 Act or the rules and regulations thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit the requirements applicable to proposals and/or nominations to be considered pursuant to Section 5(a) clause (C) of these Bylaws.
 
(h)
          
For purposes of Sections 5 and 6,
 
(i)
           
"public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press, Business Wire or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act; and
 
(ii)
          
"affiliates" and "associates" shall have the meanings set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
SECTION 6.
          
Special Meetings
.  (a)  Special meetings of the stockholders of the corporation may be called, for any purpose or purposes, by (i) the Chairman of the Board of Directors, (ii) the President, (iii) the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any such resolution is presented to the Board of Directors for adoption), or (iv) so long as required under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, by the holders of shares entitled to cast not less than ten percent (10%) of the votes at the meeting,  provided that such written request is in compliance with the requirements of Section 6(b) hereof ("Stockholder-Requested Meeting").  A request to call a special meeting pursuant to Section 6(a)(iv) shall not be valid unless made in accordance with the requirements and procedures set forth in this Section 6.  Except as may otherwise be required by law, the Board of Directors shall determine, in its sole judgment, the validity of any request under Section 6(a)(iv), including whether such request was properly made in compliance with these Bylaws.
 
(b)
          
For a special meeting called pursuant to Section 6(a), the Board of Directors shall determine the time and place of such special meeting, subject to the provisions below with respect to a Stockholder-Requested Meeting.  Following determination of the time and place of the meeting, the Secretary shall cause a notice of meeting to be given to the stockholders entitled to vote, in accordance with the provisions of Section 7 of these Bylaws.  For a Stockholder-Requested Meeting, the request shall (i) be in writing, signed and dated by the stockholders who have who delivered the written request for the special meeting, (ii) set forth the purpose of calling the special meeting and include the information required by the stockholder's notice as set forth in Section 5(b)(i), including the questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 5(e) (for nominations for the election to the Board of Directors) and in Section 5(b)(ii) (for the proposal of business other than nominations), (iii) be delivered personally or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation.  The stockholder shall also update and supplement such information as required under Section 5(c).  If the Board of Directors determines that a request pursuant to Section 6(a)(iv) is valid, the Board shall determine the time and place, if any, of a Stockholder-Requested Meeting, which time shall be not less than ninety (90) nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days after the receipt of such request,  and shall set a record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting in the manner set forth in Section 37 hereof.  No business may be transacted at a special meeting, including a Stockholder-Requested Meeting, otherwise than as specified in the notice of meeting.
 
(c)
          
Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any stockholder of the corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving notice provided for in this paragraph, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who delivers written notice to the Secretary of the corporation setting forth the information required by Section 5(b)(i); PROVIDED, that if such nominee is proposed on behalf of a beneficial owner it may only be properly brought before the meeting, if such beneficial owner was the beneficial owner of shares of the corporation at the time of giving notice provided for in this paragraph.  In the event the corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder of record may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the corporation's notice of meeting, if written notice setting forth the information required by Section 5(b)(i) of these Bylaws shall be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation no later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such meeting or the
tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting.  The stockholder shall also update and supplement such information as required under Section 5(c).  In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
 
(d)
          
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6, a stockholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to matters set forth in this Section 6. Nothing in these Bylaws shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the 1934 Act; provided, however, that any references in these Bylaws to the 1934 Act or the rules and regulations thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit the requirements applicable to nominations for the election to the Board of Directors and/or proposals of other business to be considered pursuant to Section 6(a)(iv) or Section 6(c) of these Bylaws.
 
SECTION 7.
          
Notice of Meetings
.  Except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, notice, given in writing or by electronic transmission, of each meeting of stockholders shall be given not less than ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, such notice to specify the place, if any, date and hour and purpose or purposes of the meeting, and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at any such meeting.  If mailed, notice is given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the corporation.  Notice of the time, place, if any, and purpose of any meeting of stockholders may be waived in writing, signed by the person entitled to notice thereof, or by electronic transmission by such person, either before or after such meeting, and will be waived by any stockholder by his attendance thereat in person, by remote communication, if applicable, or by proxy, except when the stockholder attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.  Any stockholder so waiving notice of such meeting shall be bound by the proceedings of any such meeting in all respects as if due notice thereof had been given.
 
SECTION 8.
          
Quorum
.  At all meetings of stockholders, except where otherwise provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation, or by these Bylaws, the presence, in person, by remote communication, if applicable, or by proxy duly authorized, of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  In the absence of a quorum, any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned, from time to time, either by the chairman of the meeting or by vote of the holders of a majority of the shares represented thereat, but no other business shall be transacted at such meeting.  The stockholders present at a duly called or convened meeting, at which a quorum is present, may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.  Except as otherwise provided by law or by applicable stock exchange or Nasdaq rules, or by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, all action taken by the holders of a majority of the vote cast, excluding abstentions, at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be valid and binding upon the corporation. PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that directors shall be elected in accordance with Section 15 hereof by a vote of the shares present in person, by remote communication, if applicable,  or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors.  Where a separate vote by a class or classes or series is required, except where otherwise provided by the statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a majority of the outstanding shares of such class or classes or series, present in person, by remote communication, if applicable, or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum entitled to take action with respect to that vote on that matter and, except where otherwise provided by the statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of the majority (and, in the case of the election of directors in accordance with Section 15 hereof) of the votes cast, including abstentions, by the holders of shares of such class or classes or series shall be the act of such class or classes or series.
SECTION 9.
          
Adjournment and Notice of Adjourned Meetings
.   Any meeting of stockholders, whether annual or special, may be adjourned from time to time either by the chairman of the meeting or by the vote of a majority of the shares casting votes, excluding abstentions.  When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, if any, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place, if any, thereof are announced
at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken.  At the adjourned meeting, the corporation may transact any business, which might have been transacted at the original meeting.  If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
 
SECTION 10.
        
Voting Rights
.   For the purpose of determining those stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of the stockholders, except as otherwise provided by law, only persons in whose names shares stand on the stock records of the corporation on the record date, as provided in Section 12 of these Bylaws, shall be entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders.  Every person entitled to vote shall have the right to do so either in person, by remote communication, if applicable, or by an agent or agents authorized by a proxy granted in accordance with Delaware Law.  An agent so appointed need not be a stockholder.  No proxy shall be voted after three (3) years from its date of creation unless the proxy provides for a longer period.
 
SECTION 11.
        
Joint Owners of Stock
.   If shares or other securities having voting power stand of record in the names of two (2) or more persons, whether fiduciaries, members of a partnership, joint tenants, tenants in common, tenants by the entirety, or otherwise, or if two (2) or more persons have the same fiduciary relationship respecting the same shares, unless the Secretary is given written notice to the contrary and is furnished with a copy of the instrument or order appointing them or creating the relationship wherein it is so provided, their acts with respect to voting shall have the following effect:  (a) if only one (1) votes, his or her act binds all; (b) if more than one (1) votes, the act of the majority so voting binds all; (c) if more than one (1) votes, but the vote is evenly split on any particular matter, each faction may vote the securities in question proportionally, or may apply to the Delaware Court of Chancery for relief as provided in DGCL Section 217(b).  If the instrument filed with the Secretary shows that any such tenancy is held in unequal interests, a majority or even-split for the purpose of subsection (c) shall be a majority or even-split in interest.
 
SECTION 12.
        
List of Stockholders
.   The Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at said meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.  Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting (a) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (b) during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the corporation.  In the event that the corporation determines to make the list available on an electronic network, the corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to stockholders of the corporation.  The list shall be open to examination of any stockholder during the time of the meeting as provided by law.
 
SECTION 13.
        
Action Without Meeting
.   No action shall be taken by the stockholders except at an annual or special meeting of stockholders called in accordance with these Bylaws, and no action shall be taken by the stockholders by written consent.
 
SECTION 14.
        
Organization
.   (a)  At every meeting of stockholders, one of the directors designated as a Chairman of the Board of Directors, or if no directors have been so designated or such directors are absent, the Chief Executive Officer, or if the Chief Executive has not been appointed or is absent, the President, or, if the President is absent, a chairman of the meeting chosen by a majority in interest of the stockholders entitled to vote, present in person, by remote communication, if applicable, or by proxy, shall act as chairman.  The Secretary, or, in his or her absence, an Assistant Secretary directed to do so by the President, shall act as secretary of the meeting.
 
(b)
          
The Board of Directors of the corporation shall be entitled to make such rules or regulations for the conduct of meetings of stockholders as it shall deem necessary, appropriate or convenient.  Subject to such rules and regulations of the Board of Directors, if any, the chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are necessary, appropriate or convenient for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, establishing an agenda or order of business for the meeting, making a determination concerning whether business is properly brought before the meeting, rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present, limitations on participation in such meeting to stockholders of record of the corporation and their duly authorized and constituted proxies and such other persons as the chairman shall permit, restrictions on
entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants and regulation of the opening and closing of the polls for balloting on matters which are to be voted on by ballot.  Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with rules of parliamentary procedure.
 
SECTION 15.
        
Number and Term of Office
.   The authorized number of directors of the corporation shall be fixed in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation.  Except as provided in Section 18 of this Article IV, a nominee for director shall be elected to the Board of Directors if the votes cast for such nominee's election exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election (excluding the effect of any abstentions with respect to that nominee's election); provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any meeting of stockholders for which (i) the Secretary of the corporation receives a notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the Board of Directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for director set forth in Article III, Section 5(b)(iii) of these Bylaws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or before the tenth (10th) day before the corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders. Directors need not be stockholders unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation.  If for any cause, the directors shall not have been elected at an annual meeting, they may be elected as soon thereafter as convenient at a special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose in the manner provided in these Bylaws.
 
SECTION 16.
        
Powers
.   (a) .  The powers of the corporation shall be exercised, its business conducted and its property controlled by the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
General
 
(b)
          
Chairman of the Board of Directors
.  The Board may designate one or more directors to serve as a Chairman of the Board of Directors.  A director designated as a Chairman of the Board of Directors, when present, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors.  Each Chairman of the Board of Directors shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.
 
SECTION 17.
        
Classes of Directors
.   Subject to the other provisions of this Section 17, the Board of Directors is and shall remain divided into two classes until the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, with the directors in each class serving for a term expiring at the second annual meeting of stockholders held after their election.  Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the terms of the members of the Board of Directors shall initially be as follows: (i) at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the directors whose terms expire at that meeting or such directors' successors shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; and (ii) at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and at each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders.  The classification of the Board of Directors shall terminate at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and all directors shall be elected in accordance with clause (ii) above.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 17, each director shall serve until his successor is duly elected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.  No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
SECTION 18.
        
Vacancies
.   Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other causes and any newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors, shall, unless the Board of Directors determines by resolution that any such vacancies or newly created directorships shall be filled by stockholders, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors.  Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold
office for the remainder of the full term of the director for which the vacancy was created or occurred and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified.  A vacancy in the Board of Directors shall be deemed to exist under this Bylaw in the case of the death, removal or resignation of any director.
 
SECTION 19.
        
Resignation
.   Any director may resign at any time by delivering his resignation in writing or by electronic transmission to the Secretary, such resignation to specify whether it will be effective at a particular time, upon receipt by the Secretary or at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  If no such specification is made, it shall be deemed effective at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  When one or more directors shall resign from the Board of Directors, effective at a future date, a majority of the directors then in office, including those who have so resigned, shall have power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when such resignation or resignations shall become effective, and each Director so chosen shall hold office for the unexpired portion of the term of the Director whose place shall be vacated and until his successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.
 
SECTION 20.
        
Removal
.   Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, the Board of Directors or any individual director may be removed from office at any time with or without cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, entitled to vote at an election of directors (the "Voting Stock").
 
SECTION 21.
        
Meetings
.   (a) .  The annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held immediately before or after the annual meeting of stockholders and may be at the place where such meeting is held.  No notice of an annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall be necessary and such meeting shall be held for the purpose of electing officers and transacting such other business as may lawfully come before it.
Annual Meetings
 
(b)
          
Regular Meetings
.  Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held in the office of the corporation required to be maintained pursuant to Section 2 hereof.  Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, regular meetings of the Board of Directors may also be held at any place within or without the State of Delaware, or solely by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment, as designated by resolution of the Board of Directors or by the consent of all directors given in writing or by electronic transmission.
 
(c)
          
Special Meetings
.  Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time and place within or without the State of Delaware, or solely by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment, whenever called by any of the directors designated as a Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any two of the directors.
 
(d)
          
Meetings by Conference Telephone or Other Communications Equipment
.  Members of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may participate in and hold meetings by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting by such means shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
 
(e)
          
Notice of Meetings
.  Notice of the time and place of all special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be given orally, in writing, by telephone, facsimile, telegraph, telex, electronic mail or any form of electronic transmission, during normal business hours, at least twenty-four (24) hours before the date and time of the meeting, or sent in writing to each director by first class mail, charges prepaid, at least three (3) days before the date of the meeting.  Such notice shall state the time and place, if any, of the special meeting of the Board of Directors, and the means to attend to the meeting through conference telephone or other communications equipment, if any.  Such notice shall state the time and place, if any, of the special meeting of the Board of Directors, and the means to attend to the meeting through conference telephone or other communication equipment, if any.  Notice of any meeting may be waived in writing or by electronic transmission at any time before or after the meeting and will be waived by any director by attendance thereat, except when the director attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
(f)
           
Waiver of Notice
.  The transaction of all business at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, however called or noticed, or wherever held, shall be as valid as though had at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum be present and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the directors not present who did not receive notice shall sign a written waiver of notice or shall waive notice by electronic transmission.  All such waivers shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
 
SECTION 22.
        
Quorum and Voting
.   (a) Unless the Certificate of Incorporation requires a greater number and except with respect to indemnification questions arising under Section 43 hereof, for which a quorum shall be one-third of the exact number of directors fixed from time to time in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation, a quorum of the Board of Directors shall consist of a majority of the exact number of directors fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, at any meeting whether a quorum be present or otherwise, a majority of the directors present may adjourn from time to time until the time fixed for the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors, without notice other than by announcement at the meeting.
 
(b)
          
At each meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum is present, all questions and business shall be determined by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present, unless a different vote be required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
 
SECTION 23.
        
Action Without Meeting
.   Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and such writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
 
SECTION 24.
        
Fees and Compensation
.   Directors shall be entitled to such compensation for their services as may be approved by the Board of Directors, including, if so approved, by resolution of the Board of Directors, a fixed sum and expenses of attendance, if any, for attendance at each regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors and at any meeting of a committee of the Board of Directors.  Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee, or otherwise and receiving compensation therefor.
 
SECTION 25.
        
Committees
.   (a) .  The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, appoint an Executive Committee to consist of one (1) or more members of the Board of Directors.  The Executive Committee, to the extent permitted by law and provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, including without limitation the power or authority to declare a dividend, to authorize the issuance of stock and to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger, and may authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to amending the Certificate of Incorporation (except that a committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the Board of Directors fix the designations and any of the preferences or rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the corporation or the conversion into, or the exchange of such shares for, shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the corporation or fix the number of shares of any series of stock or authorize the increase or decrease of the shares of any series), adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the corporation's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or amending the bylaws of the corporation.
Executive Committee
 
(b)
          
Other Committees
.  The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, from time to time appoint such other committees as may be permitted by law.  Such other committees appointed by the Board of Directors shall consist of one (1) or more members of the Board of Directors and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the resolution or resolutions
creating such committees, but in no event shall such committee have the powers denied to the Executive Committee in these Bylaws.
 
(c)
          
Term
.  Each member of a committee of the Board of Directors shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and until his or her successors shall have been duly elected, unless sooner removed.  The Board of Directors, subject to the provisions of subsections (a) or (b) of this Bylaw may at any time increase or decrease the number of members of a committee or terminate the existence of a committee.  The membership of a committee member shall terminate on the date of his death or voluntary resignation from the committee or from the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors may at any time for any reason remove any individual committee member and the Board of Directors may fill any committee vacancy created by death, resignation, removal or increase in the number of members of the committee.  The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee, and, in addition, in the absence or disqualification of any member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
 
(d)
          
Meetings
.  Unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide, regular meetings of the Executive Committee or any other committee appointed pursuant to this Section 25 shall be held at such times and places, if any, or solely by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment, as determined by the Board of Directors, or by any such committee, and when notice thereof has been given to each member of such committee, no further notice of such regular meetings need be given thereafter.  Special meetings of any such committee may be held at any place, or solely by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment, as determined from time to time by such committee, and may be called by any director who is a member of such committee, upon written notice to the members of such committee of the time and place, if any, of such special meeting and the means to attend to the meeting through conference telephone or other communications equipment, if any, given in the manner provided for the giving of written notice to members of the Board of Directors of special meetings of the Board of Directors.  Notice of any special meeting of any committee may be waived in writing or by electronic transmission at any time before or after the meeting and will be waived by any director by attendance thereat, except when the director attends such special meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.  A majority of the authorized number of members of any such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee.
 
SECTION 26.
        
Organization
.   At every meeting of the directors, one of the directors designated as a Chairman of the Board of Directors, or if no directors have been so designated or such directors are absent, the Chief Executive Officer, or if the Chief Executive Officer is absent, the President, or if the President is absent, the most senior Vice President, or, in the absence of any such officer, a chairman of the meeting chosen by a majority of the directors present, shall preside over the meeting.  The Secretary, or in his or her absence, an Assistant Secretary directed to do so by the President, shall act as secretary of the meeting.
 
SECTION 27.
        
Officers Designated
.   The officers of the corporation shall include, if and when designated by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, one or more Vice Presidents, the Secretary and the Chief Financial Officer, all of whom shall be appointed at the annual meeting of the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors (or if so empowered in accordance with this Section 27) may also appoint other officers and agents with such powers and duties as it shall deem necessary.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Directors may empower the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation to appoint such officers, other than the President, Secretary or Chief Financial Officer, as the business of the corporation may require.  The Board of Directors may assign such additional titles to one or more of the officers as it shall deem appropriate.  Any one person may hold any number of offices of the corporation at any one time unless specifically prohibited therefrom
by law.  The salaries and other compensation of the officers of the corporation shall be fixed by or in the manner designated by the Board of Directors or a designated committee of the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 28.
        
Tenure and Duties of Officers
.   (a) .  All officers shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and until their successors shall have been duly elected and qualified, unless sooner removed.  Any officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the Board of Directors.  If the office of any officer becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy may be filled by the Board of Directors.
General
 
(b)
          
Duties of Chief Executive Officer
.  The Chief Executive Officer shall be the general manager and chief executive officer of the corporation and shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction, and control of the business and officers of the corporation.  He or she shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders if no director shall have been designated a Chairman of the Board of Directors or if such director is absent and shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of chief executive officer of a corporation, and shall have other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
 
(c)
          
Duties of President
.  In the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all of the restrictions upon, the Chief Executive Officer.  The President shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for the President by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
(d)
          
Duties of Vice Presidents
.  In the absence or disability of the President, the Vice Presidents in order of their rank as fixed by the Board of Directors, or if not ranked, the Vice President designated by the Board of Directors, shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the President.  The Vice Presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.
 
(e)
          
Duties of Secretary
.  The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, a book of minutes in written form of the proceedings of the Board of Directors, committees of the Board, and stockholders.  Such minutes shall include all waivers of notice, consents to the holding of meetings, or approvals of the minutes of meetings executed pursuant to these Bylaws or the DGCL.  The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept at the principal executive office or at the office of the corporation's transfer agent or registrar, a record of its stockholders, giving the name and addresses of all stockholders and the number and class of shares held by each.  The Secretary shall give or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors required by these Bylaws or by law to be given, and shall keep the seal of the corporation in safe custody, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.
 
(f)
           
Duties of Chief Financial Officer
.  The Chief Financial Officer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of account in written form or any other form capable of being converted into written form.  The Chief Financial Officer shall deposit all monies and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the corporation with such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors.  He or she shall disburse all funds of the corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, shall render to the President, Chief Executive Officer and Directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his or her transactions as Chief Financial Officer and of the financial condition of the corporation, shall perform other duties commonly incident to his or her office and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.  The Chief Executive Officer or President may direct the Vice President Finance to assume and perform the duties of the Chief Financial Officer in the absence or disability of the Chief Financial Officer, and the Vice President Finance shall perform other duties commonly incident to his or her office and shall also perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Chief Financial Officer shall designate from time to time.
SECTION 29.
        
Delegation of Authority
.   The Board of Directors may from time to time delegate the powers or duties of any officer to any other officer or agent, notwithstanding any provision hereof.
 
SECTION 30.
        
Resignations
.   Any officer may resign at any time by giving notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the Board of Directors or to the President or to the Secretary.  Any such resignation shall be effective when received by the person or persons to whom such notice is given, unless a later time is specified therein, in which event the resignation shall become effective at such later time.  Unless otherwise specified in such notice, the acceptance of any such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.  Any resignation shall be without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the corporation under any contract with the resigning officer.
 
SECTION 31.
        
Removal
.   Any officer may be removed from office at any time, either with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors in office at the time, or by the unanimous consent given in writing or by electronic transmission by the directors in office at the time, or by any committee or superior officers upon whom such power of removal may have been conferred by the Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 32.
        
Execution of Corporate Instruments
.   The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, determine the method and designate the signatory officer or officers, or other person or persons, to execute on behalf of the corporation any corporate instrument or document, or to sign on behalf of the corporation the corporate name without limitation, or to enter into contracts on behalf of the corporation, except where otherwise provided by law or these Bylaws, and such execution or signature shall be binding upon the corporation.  Unless otherwise specifically determined by the Board of Directors or otherwise required by law, promissory notes, deeds of trust, mortgages and other evidences of indebtedness of the corporation, and other corporate instruments or documents requiring the corporate seal, and certificates of shares of stock owned by the corporation, shall be executed, signed or endorsed by the Chief Executive Officer, or the President, Chief Financial Officer or any Vice President.  All other instruments and documents requiring the corporate signature, but not requiring the corporate seal, may be executed as aforesaid or in such other manner as may be directed by the Board of Directors.  All checks and drafts drawn on banks or other depositaries on funds to the credit of the corporation or in special accounts of the corporation shall be signed by such person or persons as the Board of Directors shall authorize so to do.  Unless authorized or ratified by the Board of Directors or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.
 
SECTION 33.
        
Voting of Securities Owned by the Corporation
.   All stock and other securities of other corporations owned or held by the corporation for itself, or for other parties in any capacity, shall be voted, and all proxies with respect thereto shall be executed, by the person authorized so to do by resolution of the Board of Directors, or, in the absence of such authorization, by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or any Vice President.
SECTION 34.
        
Form and Execution of Certificates
.   Certificates for the shares of stock of the corporation shall be in such form as is consistent with the Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law.  Every holder of stock in the corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the corporation by the Chief Executive Officer, or the President or any Vice President and by the or Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, certifying the number of shares owned by him in the corporation.  Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be facsimiles.  In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent, or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent, or registrar at the date of issue.  Each certificate shall state upon the face or back thereof, in full or in
summary, all of the powers, designations, preferences, and rights, and the limitations or restrictions of the shares authorized to be issued or shall, except as otherwise required by law, set forth on the face or back a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional, or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.  Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to this section or otherwise required by law or with respect to this section a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.  Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing stock of the same class and series shall be identical.
 
SECTION 35.
        
Lost Certificates
.   A new certificate or certificates shall be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen, or destroyed.  The corporation may require, as a condition precedent to the issuance of a new certificate or certificates, the owner of such lost, stolen, or destroyed certificate or certificates, or his legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as it shall require or to give the corporation a surety bond in such form and amount as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed.
 
SECTION 36.
        
Transfers
.   (a)  Transfers of record of shares of stock of the corporation shall be made only upon its books by the holders thereof, in person or by attorney duly authorized, and upon the surrender of a properly endorsed certificate or certificates for a like number of shares.
 
(b)
          
The corporation shall have power to enter into and perform any agreement with any number of stockholders of any one or more classes of stock of the corporation to restrict the transfer of shares of stock of the corporation of any one or more classes owned by such stockholders in any manner not prohibited by the DGCL
 
SECTION 37.
        
Fixing Record Dates
.   (a)  In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting.  If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.  A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
(b)
          
In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days prior to such action.  If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any stockholder of record seeks to have the stockholders authorize the calling of a special meeting, such stockholder shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date for taking such action.  The Board of Directors shall, within ten (10) days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing such record date, which date shall not be more than ten (10) days after the date upon which the resolution fixing such record date is adopted by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 38.
        
Registered Stockholders
.   The corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.
 
SECTION 39.
        
Execution of Other Securities
.   All bonds, debentures and other corporate securities of the corporation, other than stock certificates (covered in Section 34), may be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President, or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, and the corporate seal impressed thereon or a facsimile of such seal imprinted thereon and attested by the signature of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, or the Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that where any such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall be authenticated by the manual signature, or where permissible facsimile signature, of a trustee under an indenture pursuant to which such bond, debenture or other corporate security shall be issued, the signatures of the persons signing and attesting the corporate seal on such bond, debenture or other corporate security may be the imprinted facsimile of the signatures of such persons.  Interest coupons appertaining to any such bond, debenture or other corporate security, authenticated by a trustee as aforesaid, shall be signed by the Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the corporation or such other person as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or bear imprinted thereon the facsimile signature of such person.  In case any officer who shall have signed or attested any bond, debenture or other corporate security, or whose facsimile signature shall appear thereon or on any such interest coupon, shall have ceased to be such officer before the bond, debenture or other corporate security so signed or attested shall have been delivered, such bond, debenture or other corporate security nevertheless may be adopted by the corporation and issued and delivered as though the person who signed the same or whose facsimile signature shall have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer of the corporation.
 
SECTION 40.
        
Declaration of Dividends
.   Dividends upon the capital stock of the corporation, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors pursuant to law at any regular or special meeting.  Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the capital stock, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation.
 
SECTION 41.
        
Dividend Reserve
.   Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in their absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the corporation, or for such other purpose as the Board of Directors shall think conducive to the interests of the corporation, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created.
SECTION 42.
        
Fiscal Year
.   The fiscal year of the corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 43.
        
Indemnification of Directors, Executive Officers, Other Officers, Employees and Other Agents
.   (a) .  The corporation shall indemnify its directors and executive officers (for the purposes of this Article XI, "executive officers shall have the meaning defined in Rule 3b-7 promulgated under the 1934 Act) to the fullest extent not prohibited by the DGCL; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the corporation may modify the extent of such indemnification by individual contracts with its directors and executive officers; and, PROVIDED, FURTHER, that the corporation shall not be required to indemnify any director or executive officer in connection with any proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless (i) such indemnification is expressly required to be made by law, (ii) the proceeding was authorized by the Board of Directors of the corporation, (iii) such indemnification is provided by the corporation, in its sole discretion, pursuant to the powers vested in the corporation under the DGCL or (iv) such indemnification is required to be made under subsection (d).
Directors and Executive Officers
 
(b)
          
Other Officers, Employees and Other Agents
.  The corporation shall have power to indemnify its other officers, employees and other agents as set forth in the DGCL.
 
(c)
          
Expenses
.  The corporation shall advance to any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or executive officer of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director or executive officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, prior to the final disposition of the proceeding, promptly following request therefor, all expenses incurred by any director or executive officer in connection with such proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay said amounts if it should be determined ultimately that such person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Bylaw, no advance shall be made by the corporation to an executive officer of the corporation (except by reason of the fact that such executive officer is or was a director of the corporation in which event this paragraph shall not apply) in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, if a determination is reasonably and promptly made (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to the proceeding, or (ii) if such quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable, a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, that the facts known to the decision-making party at the time such determination is made demonstrate clearly and convincingly that such person acted in bad faith or in a manner that such person did not believe to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation.
 
(d)
          
Enforcement
.  Without the necessity of entering into an express contract, all rights to indemnification and advances to directors and executive officers under this Bylaw shall be deemed to be contractual rights and be effective to the same extent and as if provided for in a contract between the corporation and the director or executive officer.  Any right to indemnification or advances granted by this Bylaw to a director or executive officer shall be enforceable by or on behalf of the person holding such right in any court of competent jurisdiction if (i) the claim for indemnification or advances is denied, in whole or in part, or (ii) no disposition of such claim is made within ninety (90) days of request therefor.  The claimant in such enforcement action, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting his claim.  In connection with any claim for indemnification, the corporation shall be entitled to raise as a defense to any such action that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct that make it permissible under the DGCL for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed.  In connection with any claim by an executive officer of the corporation (except in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such executive officer is or was a director of the corporation) for advances, the corporation shall be entitled to raise a defense as to any such action clear and convincing evidence that such person acted in bad faith or in a manner that such person did not believe to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, or with respect to any criminal action or proceeding that such person acted without reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was lawful. Neither the failure of the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct
set forth in the DGCL, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.  In any suit brought by a director or executive officer to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, the burden of proving that the director or executive officer is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Article XI or otherwise shall be on the corporation.
 
(e)
          
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
.  The rights conferred on any person by this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding office.  The corporation is specifically authorized to enter into individual contracts with any or all of its directors, officers, employees or agents respecting indemnification and advances, to the fullest extent not prohibited by the DGCL.
 
(f)
           
Survival of Rights
.  The rights conferred on any person by this Bylaw shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or other agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
 
(g)
          
Insurance
.  To the fullest extent permitted by the DGCL, the corporation, upon approval by the Board of Directors, may purchase insurance on behalf of any person required or permitted to be indemnified pursuant to this Bylaw.
 
(h)
          
Amendments
.  Any repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall only be prospective and shall not affect the rights under this Bylaw in effect at the time of the alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act that is the cause of any proceeding against any agent of the corporation.
 
(i)
           
Saving Clause
.  If this Bylaw or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each director and executive officer to the full extent not prohibited by any applicable portion of this Bylaw that shall not have been invalidated, or by any other applicable law.
 
(j)
           
Certain Definitions
.  For the purposes of this Bylaw, the following definitions shall apply:
 
(i)
           
The term "proceeding" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, the investigation, preparation, prosecution, defense, settlement, arbitration and appeal of, and the giving of testimony in, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative.
 
(ii)
          
The term "expenses" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, court costs, attorneys' fees, witness fees, fines, amounts paid in settlement or judgment and any other costs and expenses of any nature or kind incurred in connection with any proceeding.
 
(iii)
         
The term the "corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, and employees or agents, so that any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
 
(iv)
         
References to a "director," "executive officer," "officer," "employee," or "agent" of the corporation shall include, without limitation, situations where such person is serving at the request of the corporation as, respectively, a director, executive officer, officer, employee, trustee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise.
(v)
          
References to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation which    imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee, or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted   in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the corporation" as referred to in this Bylaw.
 
SECTION 44.
        
Notices
.   (a) .  Written notice to stockholders of stockholder meetings shall be given as provided in Section 7 herein.  Without limiting the manner by which notice may otherwise be given effectively to stockholders under any agreement or contract with such stockholder, and except as otherwise required by law, written notice to stockholders for purposes other than stockholder meetings may be sent by U.S. mail or nationally recognized overnight courier, or by facsimile, telegraph or telex or by electronic mail or other electronic means.
Notice to Stockholders
 
(b)
          
Notice to Directors
.  Any notice required to be given to any director may be given by the method stated in subsection (a), as otherwise stated in these Bylaws, or by facsimile, telex, telegram, electronic transmission or by overnight delivery service, except that such notice other than one which is delivered personally shall be sent to such address as such director shall have filed in writing with the Secretary, or, in the absence of such filing, to the last known post office address of such director.
 
(c)
          
Affidavit of Mailing
.  An affidavit of mailing, executed by a duly authorized and competent employee of the corporation or its transfer agent appointed with respect to the class of stock affected, specifying the name and address or the names and addresses of the stockholder or stockholders, or director or directors, to whom any such notice or notices was or were given, and the time and method of giving the same, shall in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts therein contained.
 
(d)
          
Time Notices Deemed Given
.  All notices given by mail, as above provided, shall be deemed to have been given as at the time of mailing, and all notices given by facsimile, telex,  telegram or electronic transmission shall be deemed to have been given as of the sending time recorded at time of transmission.
 
(e)
          
Methods of Notice
.  It shall not be necessary that the same method of giving notice be employed in respect of all recipients of notice, but one permissible method may be employed in respect of any one or more, and any other permissible method or methods may be employed in respect of any other or others.
 
(f)
           
Failure to Receive Notice
.  The period or limitation of time within which any stockholder may exercise any option or right, or enjoy any privilege or benefit, or be required to act, or within which any director may exercise any power or right, or enjoy any privilege, pursuant to any notice sent him in the manner above provided, shall not be affected or extended in any manner by the failure of such stockholder or such director to receive such notice.
 
(g)
          
Notice to Person with Whom Communication Is Unlawful
.  Whenever notice is required to be given, under any provision of law or of the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the corporation, to any person with whom communication is unlawful, the giving of such notice to such person shall not be required and there shall be no duty to apply to any governmental authority or agency for a license or permit to give such notice to such person.  Any action or meeting which shall be taken or held without notice to any such person with whom communication is unlawful shall have the same force and effect as if such notice had been duly given.  In the event that the action taken by the corporation is such as to require the filing of a certificate under any provision of the DGCL, the certificate shall state, if such is the fact and if notice is required, that notice was given to all persons entitled to receive notice except such persons with whom communication is unlawful.
(h)
          
Notice to Person with Undeliverable Address
.  Whenever notice is required to be given, under any provision of law or the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the corporation, to any stockholder to whom (i) notice of two consecutive annual meetings, and all notices of meetings or of the taking of action by written consent without a meeting to such person during the period between such two consecutive annual meetings, or (ii) all, and at least two, payments (if sent by first class mail) of dividends or interest on securities during a twelve-month period, have been mailed addressed to such person at his address as shown on the records of the corporation and have been returned undeliverable, the giving of such notice to such person shall not be required.  Any action or meeting which shall be taken or held without notice to such person shall have the same force and effect as if such notice had been duly given.  If any such person shall deliver to the corporation a written notice setting forth his then current address, the requirement that notice be given to such person shall be reinstated.  In the event that the action taken by the corporation is such as to require the filing of a certificate under any provision of the DGCL, the certificate need not state that notice was not given to persons to whom notice was not required to be given pursuant to this paragraph.
 
(i)
           
Notice to Stockholders Sharing an Address
.  Except as otherwise prohibited under  the DGCL, any notice given under the provisions of the DGCL, the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws shall be effective if given by a single written notice to stockholders who share an address if consented to by the stockholders at that address to whom such notice is given. Such consent shall have been deemed to have been given if such stockholder fails to object in writing to the corporation within 60 days of having been given notice by the corporation of its intention to send the single notice. Any consent shall be revocable by the stockholder by written notice to the corporation.
 
SECTION 45.
        
Amendments
.   Subject to paragraph (h) of Section 43 of the Bylaws, the Bylaws may be altered or amended or new Bylaws adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock.  The Board of Directors shall also have the power to adopt, amend, or repeal the Bylaws.
 
SECTION 46.
        
Loans to Directors or Executive Officers
.   The corporation may not, directly or indirectly, including through any subsidiary, extend or maintain credit, arrange for the extension of credit, or renew an extension of credit, in the form of a personal loan to or for any member of the Board of Directors or any executive officer (or equivalent thereof) of the corporation.
SECTION 47.
        
Annual Report
.   (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Bylaw, the Board of Directors shall cause an annual report to be sent to each stockholder of the corporation not later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the close of the corporation's fiscal year.  Such report shall include a balance sheet as of the end of such fiscal year and an income statement and statement of changes in financial position for such fiscal year, accompanied by any report thereon of independent accountants, or if there is no such report, the certificate of an authorized officer of the corporation that such statements were prepared without audit from the books and records of the corporation.  When there are more than one hundred (100) stockholders of record of the corporation's shares, as determined by Section 605 of the California Corporations Code, additional information as required by Section 1501(b) of the California Corporations Code shall also be contained in such report, provided that if the corporation has a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the 1934 Act, that Act shall take precedence.  Such report shall be sent to stockholders at least fifteen (15) days prior to the next annual meeting of stockholders after the end of the fiscal year to which it relates.
(b)
          
If and so long as there are fewer than 100 holders of record of the corporation's shares, the requirement of sending of an annual report to the stockholders of the corporation is hereby expressly waived.

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
1.
.
Purpose and Term of Plan
 
1.1 The purpose of the Adobe Systems Incorporated 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan") is to provide Eligible Employees of the Participating Company Group with an opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company through the purchase of Stock. The Company intends that the Plan qualify as an "employee stock purchase plan" under Section 423 of the Code (including any amendments or replacements of such section), and the Plan shall be so construed.
Purpose.
 
1.2 The Plan shall continue in effect until the earlier of its termination by the Board or the date on which all of the shares of Stock available for issuance under the Plan have been issued.
Term of Plan.
 
2.
.
Definitions and Construction
 
2.1 Any term not expressly defined in the Plan but defined for purposes of Section 423 of the Code shall have the same definition herein. Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have their respective meanings set forth below:
Definitions.
 
(a) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company. If one or more Committees have been appointed by the Board to administer the Plan, "Board" also means such Committee(s).
Board
 
(b) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any applicable regulations promulgated thereunder.
Code
 
(c) "" means a committee of the Board duly appointed to administer the Plan and having such powers as shall be specified by the Board. Unless the powers of the Committee have been specifically limited, the Committee shall have all of the powers of the Board granted herein, including, without limitation, the power to amend or terminate the Plan at any time, subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable limitations imposed by law.
Committee
 
(d) "" means Adobe Systems Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation thereto.
Company
 
(e) "" means, with respect to any Offering Period, base wages or salary, overtime, bonuses, commissions, shift differentials, payments for paid time off, payments in lieu of notice, and compensation deferred under any program or plan, including, without limitation, pursuant to Section 401(k) or Section 125 of the Code. Compensation shall be limited to amounts actually payable in cash or deferred during the Offering Period.
Compensation
 
Compensation shall not include moving allowances, payments pursuant to a severance agreement, termination pay, relocation payments, sign-on bonuses, any amounts directly or
 
indirectly paid pursuant to the Plan or any other stock purchase or stock option plan, or any other compensation not included above.
 
(f) "" means an Employee who meets the requirements set forth in Section 5 for eligibility to participate in the Plan.
Eligible Employee
 
(g) "" means a person treated as an employee of a Participating Company for purposes of Section 423 of the Code. A Participant shall be deemed to have ceased to be an Employee either upon an actual termination of employment or upon the corporation employing the Participant ceasing to be a Participating Company. For purposes of the Plan, an individual shall not be deemed to have ceased to be an Employee while such individual is on a bona fide leave of absence approved by the Company of ninety (90) days or less. In the event an individual's leave of absence exceeds ninety (90) days, the individual shall be deemed to have ceased to be an Employee on the ninety-first (91st) day of such leave unless the individual's right to reemployment with the Participating Company Group is guaranteed either by statute or by contract. The Company shall determine in good faith and in the exercise of its discretion whether an individual has become or has ceased to be an Employee and the effective date of such individual's employment or termination of employment, as the case may be. All such determinations by the Company shall be, for purposes of an individual's participation in or other rights under the Plan as of the time of the Company's determination, final, binding and conclusive, notwithstanding that the Company or any governmental agency subsequently makes a contrary determination.
Employee
 
(h) "" means, as of any date, if there is then a public market for the Stock, the closing sale price of a share of Stock (or the mean of the closing bid and asked prices if the Stock is so quoted instead) as quoted on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Nasdaq Small-Cap Market or such other national or regional securities exchange or market system constituting the primary market for the Stock, as reported in or such other source as the Company deems reliable. If the relevant date does not fall on a day on which the Stock has traded on such securities exchange or market system, the date on which the Fair Market Value shall be established shall be the last day on which the Stock was so traded prior to the relevant date, or such other appropriate day as shall be determined by the Board, in its sole discretion. If there is then no public market for the Stock, the Fair Market Value on any relevant date shall be as determined by the Board without regard to any restriction other than a restriction which, by its terms, will never lapse.
Fair Market Value
The Wall Street Journal
 
(i) "" means an offering of Stock as provided in Section 6.
Offering
 
(j) "" means, for any Offering Period, the first day of such Offering Period.
Offering Date
 
(k) "" means a period established in accordance with Section 6.1.
Offering Period
 
(l) "" means any present or future "parent corporation" of the Company, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
Parent Corporation
(m) "" means an Eligible Employee who has become a participant in an Offering Period in accordance with Section 7 and remains a participant in accordance with the Plan.
Participant
 
(n) "" means the Company or any Parent Corporation or Subsidiary Corporation designated by the Board as a corporation the Employees of which may, if Eligible Employees, participate in the Plan. The Board shall have the sole and absolute discretion to determine from time to time which Parent Corporations or Subsidiary Corporations shall be Participating Companies.
Participating Company
 
(o) "" means, at any point in time, the Company and all other corporations collectively which are then Participating Companies.
Participating Company Group
 
(p) "" means, for any Purchase Period, the last day of such period.
Purchase Date
 
(q) "" means a period established in accordance with Section 6.2.
Purchase Period
 
(r) "" means the price at which a share of Stock may be purchased under the Plan, as determined in accordance with Section 9.
Purchase Price
 
(s) "" means an option granted to a Participant pursuant to the Plan to purchase such shares of Stock as provided in Section 8, which the Participant may or may not exercise during the Offering Period in which such option is outstanding. Such option arises from the right of a Participant to withdraw any accumulated payroll deductions of the Participant not previously applied to the purchase of Stock under the Plan and to terminate participation in the Plan at any time during an Offering Period.
Purchase Right
 
(t) "" means the common stock of the Company, as adjusted from time to time in accordance with Section 4.2.
Stock
 
(u) "" means a written agreement in such form as specified by the Company, stating an Employee's election to participate in the Plan and authorizing payroll deductions under the Plan from the Employee's Compensation.
Subscription Agreement
 
(v) "" means the last business day prior to the Offering Date of an Offering Period or such earlier date as the Company shall establish.
Subscription Date
 
(w) "" means any present or future "subsidiary corporation" of the Company, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
Subsidiary Corporation
 
2.2 Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of the Plan. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Use of the term "or" is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
Construction.
3.
.
Administration
 
3.1 The Plan shall be administered by the Board, including any duly appointed Committee of the Board. All questions of interpretation of the Plan, of any form of agreement or other document employed by the Company in the administration of the Plan, or of any Purchase Right shall be determined by the Board and shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Plan or the Purchase Right. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall determine all of the relevant terms and conditions of Purchase Rights granted pursuant to the Plan; provided, however, that all Participants granted Purchase Rights pursuant to the Plan shall have the same rights and privileges within the meaning of Section 423(b)(5) of the Code to the extent required by applicable law. All expenses incurred in connection with the administration of the Plan shall be paid by the Company.
Administration by the Board.
 
3.2 Any officer of the Company shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, determination or election that is the responsibility of or that is allocated to the Company herein, provided that the officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, determination or election.
Authority of Officers.
 
3.3 The Company may, from time to time, consistent with the Plan and the requirements of Section 423 of the Code, establish, change or terminate such rules, guidelines, policies, procedures, limitations, or adjustments as deemed advisable by the Company, in its sole discretion, for the proper administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, (a) a minimum payroll deduction amount required for participation in an Offering, (b) a limitation on the frequency or number of changes permitted in the rate of payroll deduction during an Offering, (c) an exchange ratio applicable to amounts withheld in a currency other than United States dollars, (d) a payroll deduction greater than or less than the amount designated by a Participant, or the acceptance by the Company of a direct payment from a Participant,  in order to adjust for the Company's delay or mistake in processing a Subscription Agreement or in otherwise effecting a Participant's election under the Plan or as advisable to comply with the requirements of Section 423 of the Code, and (e) determination of the date and manner by which the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock is determined for purposes of administration of the Plan.
Policies and Procedures Established by the Company.
 
4.
.
Shares Subject to Plan
 
4.1 Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2, and effective upon approval by the stockholders of the Company, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan shall be ninety-three million (93,000,000) and shall consist of authorized but unissued or reacquired shares of Stock, or any combination thereof. If an outstanding Purchase Right for any reason expires or is terminated or canceled, the shares of Stock allocable to the unexercised portion of such Purchase Right shall again be available for issuance under the Plan.
Maximum Number of Shares Issuable.
 
4.2 In the event of any stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, recapitalization, combination, reclassification or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of any merger (including a merger effected for the purpose of changing the Company's domicile), sale of assets or other reorganization in which the Company is a party, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the number and class of shares subject to the Plan and each Purchase Right and in the Purchase Price. If a majority of the
Adjustments for Changes in Capital Structure.
shares which are of the same class as the shares that are subject to outstanding Purchase Rights are exchanged for, converted into, or otherwise become (whether or not pursuant to an Ownership Change Event) shares of another corporation (the ""), the Board may unilaterally amend the outstanding Purchase Rights to provide that such Purchase Rights are exercisable for New Shares. In the event of any such amendment, the number of shares subject to, and the Purchase Price of, the outstanding Purchase Rights shall be adjusted in a fair and equitable manner, as determined by the Board, in its sole discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section 4.2 shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number, and in no event may the Purchase Price be decreased to an amount less than the par value, if any, of the stock subject to the Purchase Right. The adjustments determined by the Board pursuant to this Section 4.2 shall be final, binding and conclusive.
New Shares
 
5.
.
Eligibility
 
5.1 Each Employee of a Participating Company is eligible to participate in the Plan and shall be deemed an Eligible Employee, except the following:
Employees Eligible to Participate.
 
(a) Any Employee who is customarily employed by the Participating Company Group for less than twenty (20) hours per week; or
(b) Any Employee who is customarily employed by the Participating Company Group for not more than five (5) months in any calendar year;
 
provided, however, that Employees of a Participating Company may be Eligible Employees even if their customary employment is less than twenty (20) hours per week and/or five (5) months per calendar year, to the extent required by local law.
 
5.2 Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no Employee shall be granted a Purchase Right under the Plan if, immediately after such grant, such Employee would own or hold options to purchase stock of the Company or of any Parent Corporation or Subsidiary Corporation possessing five percent (5%) or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of such corporation, as determined in accordance with Section 423(b)(3) of the Code. For purposes of this Section 5.2, the attribution rules of Section 424(d) of the Code shall apply in determining the stock ownership of such Employee.
Exclusion of Certain Stockholders.
 
6.
.
Offerings
 
6.1 Except as otherwise set forth below, the Plan shall be implemented by Offerings of approximately twenty-four (24) months duration or such other duration as the Board shall determine. Offering Periods shall commence on or about January 1 and July 1 of each year and end on or about the second December 31 and June 30, respectively, occurring thereafter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may establish a different duration for one or more future Offering Periods or different commencing or ending dates for such Offering Periods; provided, however, that no Offering Period may have a duration exceeding twenty-seven (27) months. If the first or last day of an Offering Period is not a day on which the national securities exchanges or Nasdaq Global Select Market are open for trading, the Company shall specify the trading day that will be deemed the first or last day, as the case may be, of the Offering Period.
Offering Periods.
6.2 Each Offering Period shall consist of four (4) consecutive Purchase Periods of approximately six (6) months duration, or such other number or duration as the Board shall determine. A Purchase Period commencing on or about January 1 shall end on or about the next June 30. A Purchase Period commencing on or about July 1 shall end on or about the next December 31. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may establish a different duration for one or more future Purchase Periods or different commencing or ending dates for such Purchase Periods. If the first or last day of a Purchase Period is not a day on which the national securities exchanges or Nasdaq Global Select Market are open for trading, the Company shall specify the trading day that will be deemed the first or last day, as the case may be, of the Purchase Period.
Purchase Periods.
 
7.
.
Participation in the Plan
 
7.1 An Eligible Employee may become a Participant in an Offering Period by delivering a properly completed Subscription Agreement to the office designated by the Company not later than the close of business for such office on the Subscription Date established by the Company for such Offering Period. An Eligible Employee who does not deliver a properly completed Subscription Agreement to the Company's designated office on or before the Subscription Date for an Offering Period shall not participate in the Plan for that Offering Period or for any subsequent Offering Period unless such Eligible Employee subsequently delivers a properly completed Subscription Agreement to the appropriate office of the Company on or before the Subscription Date for such subsequent Offering Period. An Employee who becomes an Eligible Employee on or after the Offering Date of an Offering Period shall not be eligible to participate in such Offering Period but may participate in any subsequent Offering Period provided such Employee is still an Eligible Employee as of the Offering Date of such subsequent Offering Period.
Initial Participation.
 
7.2 A Participant shall automatically participate in the next Offering Period commencing immediately after the final Purchase Date of each Offering Period in which the Participant participates provided that such Participant remains an Eligible Employee on the Offering Date of the new Offering Period and has not either (a) withdrawn from the Plan pursuant to Section 12.1 or (b) terminated employment as provided in Section 13. A Participant who may automatically participate in a subsequent Offering Period, as provided in this Section 7.2, is not required to deliver any additional Subscription Agreement for the subsequent Offering Period in order to continue participation in the Plan. However, a Participant may deliver a new Subscription Agreement for a subsequent Offering Period in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 7.1 if the Participant desires to change any of the elections contained in the Participant's then effective Subscription Agreement. Eligible Employees may not participate simultaneously in more than one Offering.
Continued Participation.
 
8.
.
Right to Purchase Shares
 
8.1 Except as set forth below, on the Offering Date of each Offering Period, each Participant in such Offering Period shall be granted automatically a Purchase Right consisting of an option to purchase five thousand (5,000) shares of Stock. No Purchase Right shall be granted on an Offering Date to any person who is not, on such Offering Date, an Eligible Employee.
Grant of Purchase Right.
 
8.2 Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8.1, and except as otherwise provided in Section 14.2, if the Board establishes an Offering Period of less than twenty-three and one-half (23) months or more than twenty-four and one-half
Pro Rata Adjustment of Purchase Right.
(24) months in duration, the number of whole shares of Stock subject to a Purchase Right shall be determined by multiplying 208.33 shares by the number of months (rounded to the nearest whole month) in the Offering Period and disregarding any resulting fractional share.
 
8.3 Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no Purchase Right shall entitle a Participant to purchase shares of Stock under the Plan at a rate which, when aggregated with such Participant's rights to purchase shares under all other employee stock purchase plans of a Participating Company intended to meet the requirements of Section 423 of the Code, exceeds Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) in Fair Market Value (or such other limit, if any, as may be imposed by the Code) for each calendar year in which such Purchase Right has been outstanding at any time. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the Fair Market Value of shares purchased during a given Offering Period shall be determined as of the Offering Date for such Offering Period. The limitation described in this Section 8.3 shall be applied in conformance with applicable regulations under Section 423(b)(8) of the Code.
Calendar Year Purchase Limitation.
 
9. The Purchase Price at which each share of Stock may be acquired in an Offering Period upon the exercise of all or any portion of a Purchase Right shall be established by the Board; provided, however, that the Purchase Price shall not be less than eighty-five percent (85%) of the lesser of (a) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the Offering Date of the Offering Period or (b) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the Purchase Date. Unless otherwise provided by the Board prior to the commencement of an Offering Period, the Purchase Price for that Offering Period shall be eighty-five percent (85%) of the lesser of (a) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the Offering Date of the Offering Period, or (b) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the Purchase Date.
.
Purchase Price
 
10. Shares of Stock acquired pursuant to the exercise of all or any portion of a Purchase Right may be paid for only by means of payroll deductions from the Participant's Compensation accumulated during the Offering Period for which such Purchase Right was granted, subject to the following:
.
Accumulation of Purchase Price through Payroll Deduction
 
10.1 Except as otherwise provided herein, the amount to be deducted under the Plan from a Participant's Compensation on each payday during an Offering Period shall be determined by the Participant's Subscription Agreement. The Subscription Agreement shall set forth the percentage of the Participant's Compensation to be deducted on each payday during an Offering Period in whole percentages of not less than one percent (1%) (except as a result of an election pursuant to Section 10.3 to stop payroll deductions made effective following the first payday during an Offering) or more than twenty-five percent (25%). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may change the limits on payroll deductions effective as of any future Offering Date.
Amount of Payroll Deductions.
 
10.2 Payroll deductions shall commence on the first payday following the Offering Date and shall continue to the end of the Offering Period unless sooner altered or terminated as provided herein.
Commencement of Payroll Deductions.
 
10.3 Subject to any limitations imposed by the Board prior to the commencement of an Offering Period, during an Offering Period, a Participant may elect to increase or decrease the rate of or to stop deductions from his or her Compensation by delivering to the Company's designated office an amended Subscription
Election to Change or Stop Payroll Deductions.
Agreement authorizing such change on or before the "Change Notice Date." The "" shall be a date prior to the beginning of the first pay period for which such election is to be effective as established by the Company from time to time and announced to the Participants. A Participant who elects to decrease the rate of his or her payroll deductions to zero percent (0%) shall nevertheless remain a Participant in the current Offering Period unless such Participant withdraws from the Plan as provided in Section 12.1.  Until otherwise provided by the Board, for all Offering Periods that commence on or after January 1, 2008, a Participant may only elect to decrease the rate of, or to stop, deductions from his or her Compensation during any on-going Offering Period, and may only increase his or her rate of deductions as to future Offering Periods; except however, that any increase to a Participant's election approved by the Company as a result of the Company's delay or mistake in processing a Subscription Agreement or in otherwise effecting a Participant's election under the Plan shall not be subject to these increase limitations.
Change Notice Date
 
10.4 Individual bookkeeping accounts shall be maintained for each Participant. All payroll deductions from a Participant's Compensation shall be credited to such Participant's Plan account and shall be deposited with the general funds of the Company. All payroll deductions received or held by the Company may be used by the Company for any corporate purpose.
Participant Accounts.
 
10.5 Interest shall not be paid on sums deducted from a Participant's Compensation pursuant to the Plan.
No Interest Paid.
 
10.6 .  Notwithstanding the above, in the case of an administrative error by the Company, the Company may choose to accept a direct payment from a Participant in order to adjust for the Company's delay or mistake in processing a Subscription Agreement or in otherwise effecting a Participant's election under the Plan or as advisable to comply with the requirements of Section 423 of the Code.
Administrative Errors
 
11.
.
Purchase of Shares
 
11.1 On each Purchase Date of an Offering Period, each Participant who has not withdrawn from the Plan and whose participation in the Offering has not terminated before such Purchase Date shall automatically acquire pursuant to the exercise of the Participant's Purchase Right the number of whole shares of Stock determined by dividing (a) the total amount of the Participant's payroll deductions accumulated in the Participant's Plan account during the Offering Period and not previously applied toward the purchase of Stock by (b) the Purchase Price. However, in no event shall the number of shares purchased by the Participant during an Offering Period exceed the number of shares subject to the Participant's Purchase Right. No shares of Stock shall be purchased on a Purchase Date on behalf of a Participant whose participation in the Offering or the Plan has terminated before such Purchase Date.
Exercise of Purchase Right.
 
11.2 In the event that the number of shares of Stock which might be purchased by all Participants in the Plan on a Purchase Date exceeds the number of shares of Stock available in the Plan as provided in Section 4.1, the Company shall make a pro rata allocation of the remaining shares in as uniform a manner as shall be practicable and as the Company shall determine to be equitable. Any fractional share resulting from such pro rata allocation to any Participant shall be disregarded.
Pro Rata Allocation of Shares.
11.3 As soon as practicable after each Purchase Date, the Company shall arrange the delivery to each Participant, as appropriate, of a certificate representing the shares acquired by the Participant on such Purchase Date; provided that the Company may deliver such shares to a broker that holds such shares in street name for the benefit of the Participant. Shares to be delivered to a Participant under the Plan shall be registered in the name of the Participant, or, if requested by the Participant, in the name of the Participant and his or her spouse, or, if applicable, in the names of the heirs of the Participant.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent permitted by applicable law and the Company's governing documents, the Company may refrain from issuing paper certificates and may instead cause the issuance of the shares to the Participant under this Plan to be recorded electronically on the books of the Company, the applicable transfer agent and/or broker, as applicable.
Delivery of Certificates.
 
11.4 Any cash balance remaining in a Participant's Plan account following any Purchase Date shall be refunded to the Participant as soon as practicable after such Purchase Date. However, if the cash to be returned to a Participant pursuant to the preceding sentence is an amount less than the amount that would have been necessary to purchase an additional whole share of Stock on such Purchase Date, the Company may retain such amount in the Participant's Plan account to be applied toward the purchase of shares of Stock in the subsequent Purchase Period or Offering Period, as the case may be.
Return of Cash Balance.
 
11.5 At the time a Participant's Purchase Right is exercised, in whole or in part, or at the time a Participant disposes of some or all of the shares of Stock he or she acquires under the Plan, the Participant shall make adequate provision for the foreign, federal, state and local tax and withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group, if any, which arise upon exercise of the Purchase Right or upon such disposition of shares, respectively.  For the avoidance of doubt, any tax arising from the exercise of the Purchase Right or upon the disposition of shares, whether initially payable by the Participant or the Participating Company Group (each a "Stock Tax"), shall be paid by the Participant.  Without limitation to the foregoing, any Indian Fringe Benefit Tax due as a result of a Participant exercising a Purchase Right shall be deemed a Stock Tax. The Participating Company Group may, but shall not be obligated to, withhold from the Participant's compensation the amount necessary to satisfy any Stock Tax and/or withholding obligations.  If the Participant's compensation is not sufficient to meet the Stock Tax and/or withholding obligation, the Participating Group Company shall be under no obligation to deliver the Shares until the Participant has made adequate provisions for payment of the Stock Tax and/or withholding obligations.
Tax and Withholding.
 
11.6 Any portion of a Participant's Purchase Right remaining unexercised after the end of the Offering Period to which the Purchase Right relates shall expire immediately upon the end of the Offering Period.
Expiration of Purchase Right.
 
11.7 Each Participant who has exercised all or part of his or her Purchase Right shall receive, as soon as practicable after the Purchase Date, a report of such Participant's Plan account setting forth the total payroll deductions accumulated prior to such exercise, the number of shares of Stock purchased, the Purchase Price for such shares, the date of purchase and the cash balance, if any, remaining immediately after such purchase that is to be refunded or retained in the Participant's Plan account pursuant to Section 11.4. The report required by this Section may be delivered in such form and by such means, including by electronic transmission, as the Company may determine.
Reports to Participants.
12.
.
Withdrawal from Offering or Plan
 
12.1 A Participant may withdraw from the Plan by signing and delivering to the Company's designated office a written notice of withdrawal on a form provided by the Company for such purpose. Such withdrawal may be elected at any time prior to the end of an Offering Period; provided, however, if a Participant withdraws from the Plan after the Purchase Date of a Purchase Period, the withdrawal shall not affect shares of Stock acquired by the Participant on such Purchase Date. A Participant who voluntarily withdraws from the Plan is prohibited from resuming participation in the Plan in the same Offering from which he or she withdrew, but may participate in any subsequent Offering by again satisfying the requirements of Sections 5 and 7.1. The Company may impose, from time to time, a requirement that the notice of withdrawal from the Plan be on file with the Company's designated office for a reasonable period prior to the effectiveness of the Participant's withdrawal.
Voluntary Withdrawal from the Plan.
 
12.2 If the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on a Purchase Date other than the final Purchase Date of an Offering is less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the Offering Date of the Offering, then every Participant automatically shall be (a) withdrawn from such Offering at the close of such Purchase Date and after the acquisition of shares of Stock for the Purchase Period and (b) enrolled in the Offering commencing on the first business day subsequent to such Purchase Date.
Automatic Withdrawal From an Offering.
 
12.3 Upon a Participant's voluntary withdrawal from the Plan pursuant to Sections 12.1 or automatic withdrawal from an Offering pursuant to Section 12.2, the Participant's accumulated payroll deductions which have not been applied toward the purchase of shares of Stock (except, in the case of an automatic withdrawal pursuant to Section 12.2, for an amount necessary to purchase an additional whole share as provided in Section 11.4) shall be returned as soon as practicable after the withdrawal, without the payment of any interest, to the Participant, and the Participant's interest in the Plan or the Offering, as applicable, shall terminate. Such accumulated payroll deductions may not be applied to any other Offering under the Plan.
Return of Payroll Deductions.
 
13. Upon a Participant's ceasing, prior to a Purchase Date, to be an Employee of the Participating Company Group for any reason, including retirement, disability or death, or the failure of a Participant to remain an Eligible Employee, the Participant's participation in the Plan shall terminate immediately. In such event, the payroll deductions credited to the Participant's Plan account since the last Purchase Date shall, as soon as practicable, be returned to the Participant or, in the case of the Participant's death, to the Participant's legal representative, and all of the Participant's rights under the Plan shall terminate. Interest shall not be paid on sums returned pursuant to this Section 13. A Participant whose participation has been so terminated may again become eligible to participate in the Plan by again satisfying the requirements of Sections 5 and 7.1.
.
Termination of Employment or Eligibility
 
14.
.
Transfer of Control
 
14.1
Definitions.
 
(a) An "" shall be deemed to have occurred if any of the following occurs with respect to the Company: (i) the direct or indirect sale or exchange in a single or series of related transactions by the stockholders of the Company of more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting stock of the Company; (ii) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is a
Ownership Change Event
party; (iii) the sale, exchange, or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or (iv) a liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
(b) A "" shall mean an Ownership Change Event or a series of related Ownership Change Events (collectively, the "") wherein the stockholders of the Company immediately before the Transaction do not retain immediately after the Transaction, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of the Company's voting stock immediately before the Transaction, direct or indirect beneficial ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the outstanding voting stock of the Company or the corporation or corporations to which the assets of the Company were transferred (the ""), as the case may be. For purposes of the preceding sentence, indirect beneficial ownership shall include, without limitation, an interest resulting from ownership of the voting stock of one or more corporations which, as a result of the Transaction, own the Company or the Transferee Corporation(s), as the case may be, either directly or through one or more subsidiary corporations. The Board shall have the right to determine whether multiple sales or exchanges of the voting stock of the Company or multiple Ownership Change Events are related, and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Transfer of Control
Transaction
Transferee Corporation(s)
 
14.2 In the event of a Transfer of Control, the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing corporation or parent corporation thereof, as the case may be (the ), shall assume the Company's rights and obligations under the Plan. If the Acquiring Corporation elects not to assume the Company's rights and obligations under outstanding Purchase Rights, the Purchase Date of the then current Purchase Period shall be accelerated to a date before the date of the Transfer of Control specified by the Board, but the number of shares of Stock subject to outstanding Purchase Rights shall not be adjusted. All Purchase Rights which are neither assumed by the Acquiring Corporation in connection with the Transfer of Control nor exercised as of the date of the Transfer of Control shall terminate and cease to be outstanding effective as of the date of the Transfer of Control.
Effect of Transfer of Control on Purchase Rights.
"Acquiring Corporation"
 
15. A Purchase Right may not be transferred in any manner otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the Participant only by the Participant.
.
Nontransferability of Purchase Rights
 
16. The issuance of shares under the Plan shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of foreign, federal or state law with respect to such securities. A Purchase Right may not be exercised if the issuance of shares upon such exercise would constitute a violation of any applicable foreign, federal or state securities laws or other law or regulations or the requirements of any securities exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed. In addition, no Purchase Right may be exercised unless (a) a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, shall at the time of exercise of the Purchase Right be in effect with respect to the shares issuable upon exercise of the Purchase Right, or (b) in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the shares issuable upon exercise of the Purchase Right may be issued in accordance with the terms of an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of said Act. The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares under the Plan shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. As a condition to the exercise of a Purchase Right, the Company may require the
.
Restriction on Issuance of Shares
Participant to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation, and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
 
17. A Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder by virtue of the Participant's participation in the Plan until the date of the issuance of a certificate for the shares purchased pursuant to the exercise of the Participant's Purchase Right (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 4.2. Nothing herein creates an employment relationship between the Participant and any member of the Participating Group Company where such relationship does not otherwise exist, nor shall anything herein confer upon a Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Participating Company Group or interfere in any way with any right of the Participating Company Group to terminate the Participant's employment at any time.
.
Rights as a Stockholder and Employee
 
18. The Company may at any time place legends or other identifying symbols referencing any applicable foreign, federal or state securities law restrictions or any provision convenient in the administration of the Plan on some or all of the certificates representing shares of Stock issued under the Plan. The Participant shall, at the request of the Company, promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares acquired pursuant to a Purchase Right in the possession of the Participant in order to carry out the provisions of this Section. Unless otherwise specified by the Company, legends placed on such certificates may include but shall not be limited to the following:
.
Legends
 
"THE SHARES EVIDENCED BY THIS CERTIFICATE WERE ISSUED BY THE CORPORATION TO THE REGISTERED HOLDER UPON THE PURCHASE OF SHARES UNDER AN EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN AS DEFINED IN SECTION 423 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED. THE TRANSFER AGENT FOR THE SHARES EVIDENCED HEREBY SHALL NOTIFY THE CORPORATION IMMEDIATELY OF ANY TRANSFER OF THE SHARES BY THE REGISTERED HOLDER HEREOF. THE REGISTERED HOLDER SHALL HOLD ALL SHARES PURCHASED UNDER THE PLAN IN THE REGISTERED HOLDER'S NAME (AND NOT IN THE NAME OF ANY NOMINEE)."
 
19. The Company may require the Participant to give the Company prompt notice of any disposition of shares acquired by exercise of a Purchase Right within two years from the date of granting such Purchase Right or one year from the date of exercise of such Purchase Right. The Company may require that until such time as a Participant disposes of shares acquired upon exercise of a Purchase Right, the Participant shall hold all such shares in the Participant's name (or, if elected by the Participant, in the name of the Participant and his or her spouse but not in the name of any nominee) until the lapse of the time periods with respect to such Purchase Right referred to in the preceding sentence. The Company may direct that the certificates evidencing shares acquired by exercise of a Purchase Right refer to such requirement to give prompt notice of disposition.
.
Notification of Sale of Shares
 
20. All notices or other communications by a Participant to the Company under or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly given when received in the form
.
Notices
specified by the Company at the location, or by the person, designated by the Company for the receipt thereof.
 
21. In addition to such other rights of indemnification as they may have as members of the Board or officers or employees of the Participating Company Group, members of the Board and any officers or employees of the Participating Company Group to whom authority to act for the Board or the Company is delegated shall be indemnified by the Company against all reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees, actually and necessarily incurred in connection with the defense of any action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with any appeal therein, to which they or any of them may be a party by reason of any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan, or any right granted hereunder, and against all amounts paid by them in settlement thereof (provided such settlement is approved by independent legal counsel selected by the Company) or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding, except in relation to matters as to which it shall be adjudged in such action, suit or proceeding that such person is liable for gross negligence, bad faith or intentional misconduct in duties; provided, however, that within sixty (60) days after the institution of such action, suit or proceeding, such person shall offer to the Company, in writing, the opportunity at its own expense to handle and defend the same.
.
Indemnification
 
22. The Board may at any time amend or terminate the Plan, except that (a) such termination shall not affect Purchase Rights previously granted under the Plan, except as permitted under the Plan, and (b) no amendment may adversely affect a Purchase Right previously granted under the Plan (except to the extent permitted by the Plan or as may be necessary to qualify the Plan as an employee stock purchase plan pursuant to Section 423 of the Code or to obtain qualification or registration of the shares of Stock under applicable foreign, federal or state securities laws). In addition, an amendment to the Plan must be approved by the stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months of the adoption of such amendment if such amendment would authorize the sale of more shares than are authorized for issuance under the Plan or would change the definition of the corporations that may be designated by the Board as Participating Companies.
.
Amendment or Termination of the Plan
 
23. Any other provision of the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, the terms of the Plan prior to amendment (other than the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock issuable thereunder) shall remain in effect and apply to all Purchase Rights granted pursuant to the Plan prior to amendment.
.
Continuation of Plan Terms as to Outstanding Purchase Rights


