FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20120307171003.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Adobe Systems Incorporated (the "Company") entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") dated as of March 2, 2012 among the Company and certain subsidiaries as borrowers, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and U.S. Bank National Association as Co-Documentation Agents, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent,  Bank of America, N.A. as Administrative Agent (the "Agent") and Swing Line Lender and the other lenders party thereto (the "Lenders"). In connection with entering into the Credit Agreement as described above, we have terminated and paid off all obligations under our previous Credit Agreement, dated as of February 16, 2007, among the Company, Bank of America, N.A. as Administrative Agent and the other lenders party thereto, as amended August 13, 2007 and further amended February 26, 2008.
 
The Credit Agreement is a five-year $1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, providing for loans to the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Company may, subject to the agreement of the applicable Lenders, request up to an additional $500 million in commitments, for a maximum aggregate loan commitment of $1.5 billion. Loans under the Credit Agreement will bear interest at either (i) the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus a margin, based on the Company's public debt ratings, ranging from 0.795% to 1.30 % or (ii) the base rate, which is defined as the highest of (a)  the Agent's prime rate (b) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50% or (c) LIBOR plus 1.00% plus a margin, based on the Company's public debt ratings, ranging from 0.00% to 0.30%. Commitment fees are payable quarterly at rates between 0.08% and 0.20% per year also based on the Company's public debt ratings.  Subject to certain conditions stated in the Credit Agreement, the Company and any subsidiaries designated as additional borrowers may borrow, prepay and re-borrow amounts under the revolving credit facility at any time during the term of the Credit Agreement.  The facility will be used for general corporate purposes.
 
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including a financial covenant, events of default and indemnification provisions in favor of the Lenders. The negative covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens and indebtedness, certain merger and acquisition transactions, dispositions and other matters, all subject to certain exceptions.  The financial covenant, based on a quarterly financial test, requires the Company not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 3 to 1.
 
The Credit Agreement will terminate and all amounts owing thereunder will be due and payable on March 2, 2017, unless (a) the commitments are terminated earlier upon the occurrence of certain events, including events of default, or (b) the maturity date is extended upon the request of the Company, subject to the agreement of the Lenders.
 
Certain of the lenders and their respective affiliates are currently performing, have performed, and may in the future perform, various commercial banking, investment banking, and other financial advisory services for the Company and its subsidiaries, for which they have received, and will receive, customary fees and expenses.
 
As of March 7, 2012, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement.
 
The description of the Credit Agreement provided above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full and complete terms contained in the Credit Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
In connection with entering into the Credit Agreement as described above, we have terminated and paid off all obligations under our previous Credit Agreement, dated as of February 16, 2007, among Adobe Systems Incorporated and certain subsidiaries as borrowers; BNP Paribas, Keybank National Association, and UBS Loan Finance LLC as Co-Documentation Agents; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Syndication Agent; Bank of America, N.A. as Administrative Agent and Swing Line Lender; the Other Lenders Party Thereto, and Banc of America Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers, as amended August 13, 2007 and further amended February 26, 2008.
 
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
(a)
         
The information set forth above under Item 1.01 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
        
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT ("") is entered into as of March 2, 2012, among ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the ""), certain Subsidiaries of the Company party hereto pursuant to (each a "" and, together with the Company, the "" and, each a ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Swing Line Lender.
Agreement
Company
Section 2.15
Designated Borrower
Borrowers
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
 
The Company has requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
 
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
 
Section 1.01.As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
  Defined Terms. 
 
"" means a fixed rate of interest expressed in multiples of 1/100th of one basis point.
Absolute Rate
 
"" means a Bid Loan that bears interest at a rate determined with reference to an Absolute Rate.
Absolute Rate Loan
 
"" means (a) any Person that becomes a Subsidiary of the Company as a result of an Acquisition or (b) any business entity or division thereof, all or substantially all of the assets and business of which are acquired by a Subsidiary of the Company pursuant to an Acquisition.
Acquired Entity
 
"" means any transaction or series of related transactions for the purpose of or resulting, directly or indirectly, in (a) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of a Person, or of any business or division of a Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary), (b) the acquisition of in excess of 50% of the capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests or equity of any Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary), or otherwise causing any Person to become a Subsidiary, or (c) a merger or consolidation or any other combination with another Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary).
Acquisition
 
"" means, with respect to any information or event, that a Responsible Officer of the Company has, or with the exercise of reasonable care and diligence would have, actual knowledge of such information or event.
Actual Knowledge
 
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
 
"" means, with respect to any currency, the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on Schedule 10.02 with respect to such currency, or such other address or account with respect to such currency as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Company and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
 
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
 
"" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Commitments
 
"" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
 
"" means each of Euro, Sterling, Yen and each other currency (other than Dollars) that is approved in accordance with Section 1.06.
Alternative Currency
 
"" means, at any time, with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the equivalent amount thereof in the applicable Alternative Currency as determined by the Administrative Agent at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of such Alternative Currency with Dollars.
Alternative Currency Equivalent
 
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of the Aggregate Commitments and $500,000,000.  The Alternative Currency Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Alternative Currency Sublimit
 
"" means with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment at such time, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 2.18.  If the commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been terminated pursuant to Section 8.02 or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments.  The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on Schedule 2.01 or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
 
"" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum based upon the then applicable Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
 
Where:
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moody's (collectively, the "") of the Company's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt; that (a) if the Debt Ratings issued by each of the foregoing rating agencies differ by one level, then the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 1 being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 5 being the lowest), (b) if there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, then the Pricing Level that is one level lower than the Pricing Level of the higher Debt Rating shall apply and (c) if the Company has only one Debt Rating, then the Pricing Level that is one level lower than that of such Debt Rating shall apply.  At any time, that no Debt Rating exists, Pricing Level 5 shall apply.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
provided
 
Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the Debt Rating specified in the certificate delivered pursuant to .  Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective, in the case of an upgrade, during the period commencing on the date of delivery by the Company to the Administrative Agent of notice thereof pursuant to Section 6.03(e) and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change and, in the case of a downgrade, during the period commencing on the date of the public announcement thereof and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
Section 4.01(a)(vii)
 
"" means, with respect to any borrowings and payments in any Alternative Currency, the local time in the place of settlement for such Alternative Currency as may be determined by the Administrative Agent to be necessary for timely settlement on the relevant date in accordance with normal banking procedures in the place of payment.
Applicable Time
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.15.
Applicant Borrower
 
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, in their capacity as joint lead arrangers and joint book runners.
Arrangers
 
"" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
 
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 10.06(b)), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit F or any other form (including electronic documentation generated by MarkitClear or other electronic platform) approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
 
"" means, on any date, (a) in respect of any capital lease of any Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, and (b) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease, net of amounts owing directly or indirectly to such Person.
Attributable Indebtedness
 
"" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 2, 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Company and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
 
"" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to Section 2.07, and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans pursuant to Section 8.02.
Availability Period
 
"" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
 
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1%; (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate"; and (c) the Eurocurrency Rate plus 1.00%.  The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate.  Any change in such prime rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
 
"" means a Committed Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Committed Loan
 
"" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.  All Base Rate Loans shall be denominated in Dollars.
Base Rate Loan
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Bid Loans of the same Type from each of the Lenders whose offer to make one or more Bid Loans as part of such borrowing has been accepted under the auction bidding procedures described in Section 2.03.
Bid Borrowing
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Bid Loan
 
"" means, in respect of any Bid Loan, the Lender making such Bid Loan to the Borrower.
Bid Loan Lender
 
"" means an amount equal to $500,000,000.  The Bid Loan Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Bid Loan Sublimit
 
"" means a written request for one or more Bid Loans substantially in the form of Exhibit B-1.
Bid Request
 
"" and "" each has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
Borrowers
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 6.02.
Borrower Materials
 
"" means a Committed Borrowing, a Bid Borrowing or a Swing Line Borrowing, as the context may require.
Borrowing
 
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office with respect to Obligations denominated in Dollars is located and:
Business Day
 
(a)           if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Dollars, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Dollars in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Dollars to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in Dollars are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market;
 
(b)           if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Euro, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Euro in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means a TARGET Day;
 
(c)           if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in the relevant currency are conducted by and between banks in the London or other applicable offshore interbank market for such currency; and
 
(d)           if such day relates to any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in a currency other than Dollars or Euro in respect of a Eurocurrency Rate
 
Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, or any other dealings in any currency other than Dollars or Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan (other than any interest rate settings), means any such day on which banks are open for foreign exchange business in the principal financial center of the country of such currency.
 
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation, implementation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, rule, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority; that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (x) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith and (y) all requests, rules, guidelines or directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law", regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued.
Change in Law
provided
 
"" means an event or series of events by which any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan), becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire (such right, an "option  right"), whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the equity securities of the Company entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Company on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right).
Change of Control
 
"" means the first date all the conditions precedent in Section 4.01 are satisfied or waived in accordance with Section 10.01.
Closing Date
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
"" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to (a) make Committed Loans to the Borrowers pursuant to Section 2.01, and (b) purchase participations in Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the Dollar amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule 2.01 or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Commitment
 
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Loans of the same Type, in the same currency and, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01.
Committed Borrowing
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01.
Committed Loan
 
"" means a notice of (a) a Committed Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans, pursuant to Section 2.02(a), which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A.
Committed Loan Notice
 
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Company
 
"" means the Company Guaranty made by the Company in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, substantially in the form of Exhibit G.
Company Guaranty
 
"" means a written offer by a Lender to make one or more Bid Loans, substantially in the form of Exhibit B-2, duly completed and signed by a Lender.
Competitive Bid
 
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit E.
Compliance Certificate
 
"" means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to Consolidated Net Income for such period (a) the following to the extent deducted in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period, (ii) the provision for Federal, state, local and foreign income taxes payable by the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period, (iii) depreciation and amortization expense and (iv) expenses of the Company and its Subsidiaries reducing such Consolidated Net Income which do not represent a cash item in such period or any future period, and (b) the following to the extent included in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Federal, state, local and foreign income tax credits of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period and (ii) all non-cash items increasing Consolidated Net Income for such period; , that solely for the purpose of the computations of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio, if there has occurred an Acquisition during the relevant period, Consolidated EBITDA shall be calculated, at the option of the Company on a pro forma basis in accordance with the SEC pro forma reporting rules under the Exchange Act, as if such Acquisition occurred on the first day of the applicable period.
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
minus
provided, however
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of all obligations, whether current or long-term, for borrowed money (including Obligations hereunder) and all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments, (b) all purchase money Indebtedness, (c) all direct obligations arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments, (d) all obligations in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business), (e) Attributable Indebtedness in respect of capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations, (f) without duplication, all Guarantees with respect to outstanding Indebtedness of the types specified in clauses (a) through (e) above of Persons other than the Company or any Subsidiary, and (g) all Indebtedness of the types referred to in clauses (a) through (f) above of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which the Company or a Subsidiary is a general
Consolidated Funded Indebtedness
partner or joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to the Company or such Subsidiary.
 
"" means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) all interest, premium payments, debt discount, fees, charges and related expenses of the Company and its Subsidiaries in connection with borrowed money (including capitalized interest) or in connection with the deferred purchase price of assets, in each case to the extent treated as interest in accordance with GAAP, (b) the portion of rent expense of the Company and its Subsidiaries with respect to such period under capital leases that is treated as interest in accordance with GAAP, and (c) the portion of rent expense of the Company and its Subsidiaries with respect to such period constituting Synthetic Lease Obligations to the extent such expenses would be treated as interest if such leases were capital leases under GAAP.
Consolidated Interest Charges
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of such date to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the four fiscal quarters most recently ended.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
 
"" means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the net income of the Company and its Subsidiaries (excluding extraordinary gains and extraordinary losses) for that period.
Consolidated Net Income
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, Stockholders' Equity on that date the Intangible Assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries on that date.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
minus
 
"" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
 
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.  "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
 
"" means a Borrowing of Loans.
Credit Extension
 
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Applicable Rate."
Debt Rating
 
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
 
"" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
"" means an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Rate, if any, applicable to Base Rate Loans (iii) 2% per annum; , that with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate and any Mandatory Cost) otherwise applicable to such Loan 2% per annum.
Default Rate
plus
plus
provided, however
plus
 
"" means, subject to Section 2.18(b), any Lender that (a) has failed to (i) fund all or any portion of its Loans within two Business Days of the date such Loans were required to be funded hereunder unless such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Company in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's determination that one or more conditions precedent to funding (each of which conditions precedent, together with any applicable default, shall be specifically identified in such writing) has not been satisfied, or (ii) pay to the Administrative Agent, the Swing Line Lender or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder (including in respect of its participation in Swing Line Loans) within two Business Days of the date when due, (b) has notified the Company, the Administrative Agent or the Swing Line Lender in writing that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations hereunder, or has made a public statement to that effect (unless such writing or public statement relates to such Lender's obligation to fund a Loan hereunder and states that such position is based on such Lender's determination that a condition precedent to funding (which condition precedent, together with any applicable default, shall be specifically identified in such writing or public statement) cannot be satisfied), (c) has failed, within three Business Days after written request by the Administrative Agent or the Company, to confirm in writing to the Administrative Agent and the Company that it will comply with its prospective funding obligations hereunder (provided that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (c) upon receipt of such written confirmation by the Administrative Agent and the Company), or (d) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (i) become the subject of a proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or (ii) had appointed for it a receiver, custodian, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or assets, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other state or federal regulatory authority acting in such a capacity; provided that a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any Equity Interest in that Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a Governmental Authority so long as such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Lender with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Lender (or such Governmental Authority) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made with such Lender.  Any determination by the Administrative Agent that a Lender is a Defaulting Lender under any one or more of clauses (a) through (d) above, and of the effective date of such status, shall be conclusive and binding absent manifest error, and such Lender shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender (subject to Section 2.18(b)) as of the date established therefor by the Administrative Agent in a written notice of such determination, which shall be delivered by the Administrative Agent to the Company, the Swing Line Lender and each other Lender promptly following such determination.
Defaulting Lender
 
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Designated Borrower
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.15.
Designated Borrower Notice
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.15.
Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement
 
"" means, in respect of all Designated Borrowers that are Foreign Subsidiaries, together, an aggregate amount equal to the lesser of the Aggregate Commitments and $500,000,000.  The Designated Borrower Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Designated Borrower Sublimit
 
"" or "" means the sale, transfer, license, lease or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of any property by any Person, including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith.
Disposition
Dispose
 
"" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
 
"" means, at any time, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, such amount, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in any Alternative Currency, the equivalent amount thereof in Dollars as determined by the Administrative Agent at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of Dollars with such Alternative Currency.
Dollar Equivalent
 
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States and that is not a Foreign Subsidiary.
Domestic Subsidiary
 
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under Section 10.06(b).
Eligible Assignee
 
"" means a corporation that is a wholly owned Subsidiary, duly organized and existing under the law of any state of the United States or the laws of Ireland, Bermuda, Cayman Islands or the British Virgin Islands, the activities of which are limited by such Subsidiary's Organization Documents those necessary to providing casualty or "all-risk" property insurance coverage solely to the Company and its Subsidiaries; (i) such Subsidiary at all times maintains adequate capital and solvency (as specified by law applicable to insurance providers organized under the law of such Subsidiary's jurisdiction of organization), (ii) such Subsidiary is at all times duly licensed as an insurer under such law, and (iii) neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall at any time Guarantee any portion of such insurance coverage.
Eligible Captive Insurance Subsidiary
provided
 
"" means the economic and monetary union in accordance with the Treaty of Rome 1957, as amended by the Single European Act 1986, the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 and the Amsterdam Treaty of 1998.
EMU
 
"" means the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency.
EMU Legislation
 
"" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the
Environmental Laws
protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
 
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Company, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, all of the shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and all of the other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are outstanding on any date of determination. The defined term "Equity Interests" does not include convertible Indebtedness.
Equity Interests
 
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
 
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Company within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
 
"" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) the withdrawal of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which such entity was a "substantial employer" as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate a Pension Plan or the treatment of a Pension Plan amendment as a termination under Sections 4041 or 4041A of ERISA; (e) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Pension Plan; (f) any event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan; (g) the determination that any Pension Plan is considered an at-risk plan or a plan in endangered or critical status within the meaning of Sections 430, 431 and 432 of the Code or Sections 303, 304 and 305 of ERISA; or (h) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon  the Company or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of the Participating Member States introduced in accordance with the EMU Legislation.
Euro
EUR
 
"" means:
Eurocurrency Rate
 
(a)           for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to (i) the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or such other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as may be designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for deposits in the relevant currency (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period or, (ii) if such rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in the relevant currency for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in Same Day Funds in the approximate amount of the Eurocurrency Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America (or the applicable Bid Loan Lender, as the case may be) and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch (or other Bank of America branch or Affiliate) to major banks in the London or other offshore interbank market for such currency at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period; or
BBA LIBOR
 
(b)           for any interest calculation with respect to a Base Rate Loan on any date, the rate per annum equal to (i) BBA LIBOR, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time determined two Business Days prior to such date for Dollar deposits being delivered in the London interbank market for a term of one month commencing that day or (ii) if such published rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the date of determination in Same Day Funds in the approximate amount of the Base Rate Loan being made or maintained and with a term equal to one month would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank Eurodollar market at their request at the date and time of determination.
 
"" means a Committed Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurocurrency Rate.  Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans may be denominated in Dollars or in an Alternative Currency.  All Committed Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency must be Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans.
Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan
 
"" means a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan or a Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan.
Eurocurrency Rate Loan
 
"" means the margin above or below the Eurocurrency Rate to be added to or subtracted from the Eurocurrency Rate, which margin shall be expressed in multiples of
Eurodollar Bid Margin
1
/100th of one basis point.
 
"" means a Bid Loan that bears interest at a rate based upon the Eurocurrency Rate.
Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.01.
Event of Default
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" means any of the following Taxes imposed on or with respect to any Recipient or required to be withheld or deducted from a payment to a Recipient, (a) Taxes imposed on or measured by net income (however denominated), franchise Taxes and branch profits Taxes, in each case, (i) imposed by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, or (ii) that are Other Connection Taxes, (b) in the case of a Lender, any withholding Taxes imposed on amounts payable to or for the account of such Lender with respect to an applicable interest in a Loan or Commitment pursuant to a law in effect on the date on which (i) such Lender acquires such interest in the Loan or Commitment (other than pursuant to an assignment request by any Borrower under Section 10.13) or if such Lender is an intermediary, partnership or other flow-through entity for U.S. tax purposes, the later of the date on which such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement and the date on which the relevant beneficiary or member of such Lender becomes such a beneficiary or member, or (ii) such Lender changes its Lending Office, except in each case to the extent that, pursuant to Section 3.01(a)(ii) or Section 3.01(c), amounts with respect to such Taxes were payable either to such Lender's assignor immediately before such Lender became a party hereto or to such Lender immediately before it changed its Lending Office, (c) Taxes attributable to such Recipient's failure (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with Section 3.01(e), (d) U.S. federal backup withholding and (e) any U.S. federal withholding Taxes imposed pursuant to FATCA.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this definition, "Excluded Taxes" shall not include any withholding tax imposed at any time on payments made by or on behalf of a Foreign Obligor to any Lender hereunder or under any other Loan Document, that such Lender shall have complied with Section 3.01(e)(iii).
Excluded Taxes
provided
 
"" means (i) an Acquisition of a Person that is subject to periodic reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, and (ii) an Acquisition of a Person the total consideration of which (including cash and non-cash consideration and the assumption of debt and other liabilities) does not exceed $750 million.
Exempt Acquisitions
 
"" means the Credit Agreement, dated as of February 16, 2007, among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company party thereto, each lender from time to time party thereto and the Administrative Agent.
Existing Credit Agreement
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.16(a).
Existing Maturity Date
 
"" means those leases relating to Synthetic Lease Obligations (a) entered into on or about September 26, 2001 by and between the Company (as lessee) and Selco Service Corporation (as lessor), as amended, and (b) evidenced by that certain Second Amended and Restated Master Lease of Land and Improvements entered into as of August 11, 2004, by and between SMBC Leasing and Finance, Inc. (as lessor) and the Company (as lessee), as amended.
Existing Synthetic Leases
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable thereto) and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
 
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
 
"" means the letter agreements, each dated February 3, 2012, among the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers.
Fee Letters
 
"" means, with respect to any Borrower, any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which such Borrower is resident for tax purposes.  For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
 
"" means a Loan Party that is a Foreign Subsidiary.
Foreign Obligor
 
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States, a State thereof or the District of Columbia or that is a Foreign Subsidiary Holdco.
Foreign Subsidiary
 
"" means any Subsidiary, so long as such Subsidiary has no material assets other than securities or Indebtedness of one or more Foreign Subsidiaries (or Subsidiaries thereof) and other assets relating to an ownership interest in any such securities, Indebtedness or Subsidiaries.
Foreign Subsidiary Holdco
 
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
 
"" means, at any time there is a Defaulting Lender, such Defaulting Lender's Applicable Percentage of Swing Line Loans other than Swing Line Loans as to which such Defaulting Lender's participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders in accordance with the terms hereof.
Fronting Exposure
 
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute
GAAP
of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
 
"" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
 
"" means, as to any Person, any (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person (or any right, contingent or otherwise, of any holder of such Indebtedness to obtain any such Lien).  The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith.  The term "Guarantee" as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
primary obligor
 
"" means the Company Guaranty and the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Guaranties
 
"" means, collectively, the Company and each Subsidiary Guarantor.
Guarantors
 
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
 
"" means, as to any Person at a particular time, without duplication, all of the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
 
(a)           all obligations of such Person for borrowed money and all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments;
 
(b)           all direct or contingent obligations of such Person arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments;
 
(c)           net obligations of such Person under any Swap Contract;
 
(d)           all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business and, in each case, not past due for more than 60 days after the date on which such trade account payable was created);
 
(e)           indebtedness (excluding prepaid interest thereon) secured by a Lien on property owned or being purchased by such Person (including indebtedness arising under conditional sales or other title retention agreements), whether or not such indebtedness shall have been assumed by such Person or is limited in recourse;
 
(f)            capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations;
 
(g)           all obligations of such Person to purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise make any payment in respect of any Equity Interest in such Person or any other Person, valued, in the case of a redeemable preferred interest, at the greater of its voluntary or involuntary liquidation preference accrued and unpaid dividends; and
plus
 
(h)           all Guarantees of such Person in respect of any of the foregoing.
 
For all purposes hereof, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to such Person.  The amount of any net obligation under any Swap Contract on any date shall be deemed to be the Swap Termination Value thereof as of such date.  The amount of any capital lease or Synthetic Lease Obligation as of any date shall be deemed to be the amount of Attributable Indebtedness in respect thereof as of such date.
 
"" means (a) Taxes other than Excluded Taxes, imposed on or with respect to any payment made by Borrower under any Loan Document and (b) to the extent not otherwise described in (a), Other Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 10.04(b).
Indemnitees
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 10.07.
Information
 
"" means assets that are considered to be intangible assets under GAAP, including customer lists, goodwill, computer software, copyrights, trade names,
Intangible Assets
trademarks, patents, franchises, licenses, unamortized deferred charges, unamortized debt discount and capitalized research and development costs.
 
"" means, (a) as to any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , that if any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan (including a Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided, however
 
"" means, (a) as to each Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Loan is disbursed or (in the case of any Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan) converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Company in its Committed Loan Notice or Bid Request, as the case may be, or, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans, such other period that is twelve months or less requested by the Company and consented to by all the Lenders; and (b) as to each Absolute Rate Loan, a period of not less than 14 days and not more than 180 days as selected by the Company in its Bid Request; that:
Interest Period
provided
 
(i)            any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
 
(ii)           any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
 
(iii)          no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
 
"" means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect acquisition or investment by such Person, whether by means of (a) the purchase or other acquisition of capital stock or other securities of another Person, (b) a loan, advance or capital contribution to, Guarantee or assumption of debt of, or purchase or other acquisition of any other debt or equity participation or interest in, another Person, including any partnership or joint venture interest in such other Person and any arrangement pursuant to which the investor Guarantees Indebtedness of such other Person, or (c) the purchase or other acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of assets of another Person that constitute a business unit.  For purposes of covenant compliance, the amount of any Investment shall be the amount actually invested, without adjustment for subsequent increases or decreases in the value of such Investment.
Investment
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 5.18.
IP Rights
 
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 10.20.
Judgment Currency
"" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
 
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes the Swing Line Lender.
Lender
 
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Company and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
 
"" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or preference, priority or other security interest or preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
 
"" means an extension of credit by a Lender to a Borrower under Article 2 in the form of a Committed Loan, a Bid Loan or a Swing Line Loan.
Loan
 
"" means this Agreement, each Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement, each Note, each Fee Letter and the Guaranties.
Loan Documents
 
"" means, collectively, the Company, each Subsidiary Guarantor and each Designated Borrower.
Loan Parties
 
"" means, with respect to any period, the percentage rate per annum determined in accordance with Schedule 1.01(m).
Mandatory Cost
 
"" means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Company or the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of any Loan Party to perform its obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a party; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against any Loan Party of any Loan Document to which it is a party.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" means, at any date of determination, based upon the financial statements then most recently delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 4.01 or 6.01(a), any Domestic Subsidiary that has as of such date total assets of at least 5% of total assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
Material Domestic Subsidiary
 
"" means the later of (a) March 2, 2017 and (b) if maturity is extended pursuant to Section 2.16, such extended maturity date as determined pursuant to such Section;
Maturity Date
provided, however
, that, in each case, if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
Moody's
 
"" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
 
"" means a Plan which has two or more contributing sponsors (including the Company or any ERISA Affiliate) at least two of whom are not under common control, as such a plan is described in Section 4064 of ERISA.
Multiple Employer Plan
 
"" means, at any time, each Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender at such time.
Non-Defaulting Lender
 
"" means a promissory note made by a Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender to such Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit D.
Note
 
"" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
 
"" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
 
"" means, with respect to any Recipient, Taxes imposed as a result of a present or former connection between such Recipient and the jurisdiction imposing such Tax (other than connections arising solely from such Recipient having executed, delivered, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, engaged in any other transaction pursuant to or enforced any Loan Document, or sold or assigned an interest in any Loan or Loan Document).
Other Connection Taxes
"" means all present or future stamp, court or documentary, intangible, recording, filing or similar Taxes that arise from any payment made under, from the execution, delivery, performance, enforcement or registration of, or otherwise with respect to, any Loan Document, other than any such Taxes that are Other Connection Taxes imposed with respect to an assignment (other than an assignment made pursuant to Section 10.13(b)(ii)).
Other Taxes
 
"" means (a) with respect to Committed Loans on any date, the Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such Committed Loans occurring on such date; and (b) with respect to Swing Line Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such Swing Line Loans occurring on such date.
Outstanding Amount
 
"" means, for any day, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the greater of (i) the Federal Funds Rate and (ii) an overnight rate determined by the Administrative Agent or the Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in an Alternative Currency, the rate of interest per annum at which overnight deposits in the applicable Alternative Currency, in an amount approximately equal to the amount with respect to which such rate is being determined, would be offered for such day by a branch or Affiliate of Bank of America in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency to major banks in such interbank market.
Overnight Rate
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 10.06(d).
Participant
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 10.06(d).
Participant Register
 
"" means each state so described in any EMU Legislation.
Participating Member State
 
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
 
"" means the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
PCAOB
 
"" means the Pension Protection Act of 2006.
Pension Act
 
"" means the rules of the Code and ERISA regarding minimum required contributions (including any installment payment thereof) to Pension Plans and set forth in, with respect to plan years ending prior to the effective date of the Pension Act, Section 412 of the Code and Section 302 of ERISA, each as in effect prior to the Pension Act and, thereafter, Sections 412, 430, 431, 432 and 436 of the Code and Sections 302, 303, 304 and 305 of ERISA.
Pension Funding Rules
 
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (including a Multiple Employer Plan or a Multiemployer Plan) that is maintained or is contributed to by the Company and any ERISA Affiliate and is either covered by Title IV of ERISA or is subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code.
Pension Plan
 
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA (including a Pension Plan), maintained for employees of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate or any such plan to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate is required to contribute on behalf of any of its employees.
Plan
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 6.02.
Platform
 
"" means (i) all Indebtedness of any Subsidiary other than a Guarantor, excluding Indebtedness owed by such Subsidiary to the Company or any of the Company's other Subsidiaries; and (ii) all Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries secured by a Lien on assets of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
Priority Debt
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 6.02.
Public Lender
 
"" means the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of any Loan Party hereunder.
Recipient
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 10.06(c).
Register
 
"" has the meaning specified in the Securities Laws and shall be independent of the Company as prescribed by the Securities Laws.
Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors, trustees and administrators of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 9.06(b).
Removal Effective Date
 
"" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
 
"" means (a) with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Committed Loans, a Committed Loan Notice, (b) with respect to a Bid Loan, a Bid Request, and (c) with respect to a Swing Line Loan, a Swing Line Loan Notice.
Request for Credit Extension
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been terminated pursuant to Section 8.02, Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings (with the aggregate amount of each Lender's risk participation and funded participation in Swing Line Loans being deemed "held" by such Lender for purposes of this definition); that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders; that, the amount of any participation in any Swing Line Loan that such Defaulting Lender has failed to fund that has not been reallocated to and funded by another Lender shall be deemed to be held by the Lender that is the Swing Line Lender in making such determination.
Required Lenders
provided
provided further
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 9.06(a).
Resignation Effective Date
"" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, or treasurer of a Loan Party.  Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
 
"" means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any capital stock or other Equity Interest of the Company or any Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, defeasance, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other Equity Interest, or on account of any return of capital to the Company's stockholders, partners or members (or the equivalent Person thereof).
Restricted Payment
 
"" means with respect to any Loan, each of the following:  (i) each date of a Borrowing of a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency, (ii) each date of a continuation of a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency pursuant to Section 2.02, and (iii) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent shall determine or the Required Lenders shall require.
Revaluation Date
 
"" means Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC, a subsidiary of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
 
"" means (a) with respect to disbursements and payments in Dollars, immediately available funds, and (b) with respect to disbursements and payments in an Alternative Currency, same day or other funds as may be determined by the Administrative Agent to be customary in the place of disbursement or payment for the settlement of international banking transactions in the relevant Alternative Currency.
Same-Day Funds
 
"" means the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Sarbanes-Oxley
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, the Exchange Act, Sarbanes-Oxley and the applicable accounting and auditing principles, rules, standards and practices promulgated, approved or incorporated by the SEC or the PCAOB.
Securities Laws
 
"" means at any time an Alternative Currency, other than the currency of a country that is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development at such time located in North America or Europe.
Special Notice Currency
 
"" for a currency means the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate quoted by the Person acting in such capacity as the spot rate for the purchase by such Person of such currency with another currency through its principal foreign exchange trading office at approximately 11:00 a.m. on the date two Business Days prior to the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made; that the Administrative Agent may obtain such spot rate from another financial institution designated by the Administrative Agent if the
Spot Rate
provided
Person acting in such capacity does not have as of the date of determination a spot buying rate for any such currency.
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of the United Kingdom.
Sterling
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, consolidated stockholders' equity of the Company and its Subsidiaries on that date, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Stockholders' Equity
 
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person.  Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company.
Subsidiary
 
"" means, collectively, each of the Subsidiaries listed on Schedule 1.01(s) hereto (which are Material Domestic Subsidiaries as of the Closing Date), together with each Person becoming or required to become a Subsidiary Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.13.
Subsidiary Guarantors
 
"" means the Subsidiary Guaranty made by the Subsidiary Guarantors in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, substantially in the form of Exhibit H.
Subsidiary Guaranty
 
"" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
Master Agreement
 
"" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for
Swap Termination Value
any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
 
"" means the revolving credit facility made available by the Swing Line Lender pursuant to Section 2.05.
Swing Line
 
"" means a borrowing of a Swing Line Loan pursuant to Section 2.05.
Swing Line Borrowing
 
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as provider of Swing Line Loans, or any successor swing line lender hereunder.
Swing Line Lender
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.05(a).
Swing Line Loan
 
"" means a notice of a Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.05(b), which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit C.
Swing Line Loan Notice
 
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $100,000,000 and (b) the Aggregate Commitments.  The Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Swing Line Sublimit
 
"" means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Synthetic Lease Obligation
 
"" means any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) payment system (or, if such payment system ceases to be operative, such other payment system (if any) determined by the Administrative Agent to be a suitable replacement) is open for the settlement of payments in Euro.
TARGET Day
 
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, (including backup withholding), assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
 
"" means $100,000,000.
Threshold Amount
 
"" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans.
Total Outstandings
 
"" means, (a) with respect to a Committed Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan, and (b) with respect to a Bid Loan, its character as an Absolute Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan.
Type
 
"" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
"" means a "United States Person" as defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code.
U.S. Person
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(e)(ii)(B)(3).
U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate
 
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of Japan.
Yen
 
Section 1.02.With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
  Other Interpretive Provisions. 
 
(a)           The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined.  Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms.  The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation."  The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall."  Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "hereto", "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
 
(b)           In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including;" the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding" and the word "through" means "to and including."
 
(c)           Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
 
Section 1.03.(a)   All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited
  Accounting Terms. 
Generally.
 
Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining compliance with any covenant (including the computation of any financial covenant) contained herein, Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be carried at 100% of the outstanding principal amount thereof, and the effects of FASB ASC 825 and FASB ASC 470-20on financial liabilities shall be disregarded.
except
 
(b)             If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Company or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Company shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); that, until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Company shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP.
provided
 
(c)           .  All references herein to consolidated financial statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries or to the determination of any amount for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis or any similar reference shall, in each case, be deemed to include each variable interest entity that the Company is required to consolidate pursuant to FASB Interpretation No. 46  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities: an interpretation of ARB No. 51 (January 2003) as if such variable interest entity were a Subsidiary as defined herein.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
Section 1.04.Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
  Rounding. 
 
Section 1.05.(a) The Administrative Agent shall determine the Spot Rates as of each Revaluation Date to be used for calculating Dollar Equivalent amounts of Credit Extensions and Outstanding Amounts denominated in Alternative Currencies.  Such Spot Rates shall become effective as of such Revaluation Date and shall be the Spot Rates employed in converting any amounts between the applicable currencies until the next Revaluation Date to occur.  Except for purposes of financial statements delivered by Loan Parties hereunder or calculating financial covenants hereunder or except as otherwise provided herein, the applicable amount of any currency (other than Dollars) for purposes of the Loan Documents shall be such Dollar Equivalent amount as so determined by the Administrative Agent.
  Exchange Rates; Currency Equivalents. 
 
(b)           Wherever in this Agreement in connection with a Committed Borrowing, conversion, continuation or prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan, an amount, such as a required minimum or multiple amount, is expressed in Dollars, but such Committed
Borrowing, or Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan is denominated in an Alternative Currency, such amount shall be the relevant Alternative Currency Equivalent of such Dollar amount (rounded to the nearest unit of such Alternative Currency, with 0.5 of a unit being rounded upward), as determined by the Administrative Agent.
 
Section 1.06.(a) The Company may from time to time request that Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans be made in a currency other than those specifically listed in the definition of "Alternative Currency;" that such requested currency is a lawful currency (other than Dollars) that is readily available and freely transferable and convertible into Dollars.  In the case of any such request with respect to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders.
  Additional Alternative Currencies. 
provided
 
(b)           Any such request shall be made to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m., 20 Business Days prior to the date of the desired Credit Extension (or such other time or date as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion).  In the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof.  Each Lender (in the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans) shall notify the Administrative Agent, not later than 11:00 a.m., ten Business Days after receipt of such request whether it consents, in its sole discretion, to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans in such requested currency.
 
(c)           Any failure by a Lender to respond to such request within the time period specified in the preceding sentence shall be deemed to be a refusal by such Lender to permit Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans to be made in such requested currency.  If the Administrative Agent and all the Lenders consent to making Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans in such requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Company and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any Committed Borrowings of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans.  If the Administrative Agent shall fail to obtain consent to any request for an additional currency under this Section 1.06, the Administrative Agent shall promptly so notify the Company.
 
Section 1.07.Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
  Times of Day. 
 
Section 2.01.Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrowers in Dollars or in one or more Alternative Currencies from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , that after giving effect to any Committed Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans
  Committed Loans. 
Committed Loan
provided, however
plus
shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, (iii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Committed Loans made to the Designated Borrowers shall not exceed the Designated Borrower Sublimit, and (iv) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies shall not exceed the Alternative Currency Sublimit.  Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrowers may borrow under this Section 2.01, prepay under Section 2.06, and reborrow under this Section 2.01.  Committed Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans, as further provided herein.
 
Section 2.02.(a)  Each Committed Borrowing, each conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans shall be made upon the Company's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone.  Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Dollars or of any conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars to Base Rate Committed Loans, (ii) four Business Days (or five Business Days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of any Borrowing or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, and (iii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Committed Loans; , that if the Company wishes to request Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans having an Interest Period other than one, two, three or six months in duration as provided in the definition of "Interest Period", the applicable notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (A) four Business Days prior to the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Dollars, or (B) five Business Days (or six Business days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, whereupon the Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Lenders of such request and determine whether the requested Interest Period is acceptable to all of them.  Not later than 11:00 a.m., (I) three Business Days before the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Dollars, or (II) four Business Days (or five Business Days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company (which notice may be by telephone) whether or not the requested Interest Period has been consented to by all the Lenders.  Each telephonic notice by the Company pursuant to this Section 2.02(a) must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company.  Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.  Except as provided in Section 2.05(c), each Committed Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof.  Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (1) whether the Company is requesting a Committed Borrowing, a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans, (2) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the
  Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Committed Loans. 
provided, however
case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (3) the principal amount of Committed Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (4) the Type of Committed Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Committed Loans are to be converted, (5) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto, (6) the currency of the Committed Loans to be borrowed, and (7) if applicable, the Designated Borrower.  If the Company fails to specify a currency in a Committed Loan Notice requesting a Borrowing, then the Committed Loans so requested shall be made in Dollars.  If the Company fails to specify a Type of Committed Loan in a Committed Loan Notice or if the Company fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Committed Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans; , that in the case of a failure to timely request a continuation of Committed Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, such Loans shall be continued as Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans in their original currency with an Interest Period of one month.  Any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans.  If the Company requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans in any such Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.  No Committed Loan may be converted into or continued as a Committed Loan denominated in a different currency, but instead must be prepaid in the original currency of such Committed Loan and reborrowed in the other currency.
provided, however
 
(b)           Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount (and currency) of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Committed Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Company, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans or continuation of Committed Loans denominated in a currency other than Dollars, in each case as described in the preceding subsection.  In the case of a Committed Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Committed Loan available to the Administrative Agent in Same-Day Funds at the Administrative Agent's Office for the applicable currency not later than 1:00 p.m., in the case of any Committed Loan denominated in Dollars, and not later than the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of any Committed Loan in an Alternative Currency, in each case on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice.  Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in Section 4.02 (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension, Section 4.01), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Company or the other applicable Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of such Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Company.  Each Lender may, at its option, make any Loan available to any Designated Borrower that is a Foreign Subsidiary by causing any foreign or domestic branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; , , that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of such Designated Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
provided
however
 
(c)           Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan.  During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans (whether in Dollars or any Alternative
Currency) without the consent of the Required Lenders, and the Required Lenders may demand that any or all of the then outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency be prepaid, or redenominated into Dollars in the amount of the Dollar Equivalent thereof, on the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto.
 
(d)           The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans upon determination of such interest rate.  At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
 
(e)           After giving effect to all Committed Borrowings, all conversions of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Committed Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to Committed Loans.
 
Section 2.03.(a)   Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees that the Company may from time to time request the Lenders to submit offers to make loans in Dollars (each such loan, a "") to the Company prior to the Maturity Date pursuant to this Section 2.03; , that after giving effect to any Bid Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Bid Loans shall not exceed the Bid Loan Sublimit.  There shall not be more than five different Interest Periods in effect with respect to Bid Loans at any time.
  Bid Loans. 
General.
Bid Loan
provided, however
 
(b)             The Company may request the submission of Competitive Bids by delivering a Bid Request to the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (i) one Business Day prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, or (ii) four Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans.  Each Bid Request shall specify (i) the requested date of the Bid Borrowing (which shall be a Business Day), (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Bid Loans requested (which must be $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof), (iii) the Type of Bid Loans requested, and (iv) the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto, and shall be signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company.  No Bid Request shall contain a request for (i) more than one Type of Bid Loan or (ii) Bid Loans having more than three different Interest Periods.  Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise agrees in its sole and absolute discretion, the Company may not submit a Bid Request if it has submitted another Bid Request within the prior five Business Days.
Requesting Competitive Bids.
 
(c)             (i) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of each Bid Request received by it from the Company and the contents of such Bid Request.
Submitting Competitive Bids.
 
(ii)           Each Lender may (but shall have no obligation to) submit a Competitive Bid containing an offer to make one or more Bid Loans in response to such Bid Request.  Such Competitive Bid must be delivered to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:30 a.m. (A) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate
Loans, and (B) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans; , that any Competitive Bid submitted by Bank of America in its capacity as a Lender in response to any Bid Request must be submitted to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:15 a.m. on the date on which Competitive Bids are required to be delivered by the other Lenders in response to such Bid Request.  Each Competitive Bid shall specify (A) the proposed date of the Bid Borrowing; (B) the principal amount of each Bid Loan for which such Competitive Bid is being made, which principal amount (x) may be equal to, greater than or less than the Commitment of the bidding Lender, (y) must be $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, and (z) may not exceed the principal amount of Bid Loans for which Competitive Bids were requested; (C) if the proposed Bid Borrowing is to consist of Absolute Rate Bid Loans, the Absolute Rate offered for each such Bid Loan and the Interest Period applicable thereto; (D) if the proposed Bid Borrowing is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans, the Eurodollar Bid Margin with respect to each such Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan and the Interest Period applicable thereto; and (E) the identity of the bidding Lender.
provided, however
 
(iii)          Any Competitive Bid shall be disregarded if it (A) is received after the applicable time specified in clause (ii) above, (B) is not substantially in the form of a Competitive Bid as specified herein, (C) contains qualifying, conditional or similar language, (D) proposes terms other than or in addition to those set forth in the applicable Bid Request, or (E) is otherwise not responsive to such Bid Request.  Any Lender may correct a Competitive Bid containing a manifest error by submitting a corrected Competitive Bid (identified as such) not later than the applicable time required for submission of Competitive Bids.  Any such submission of a corrected Competitive Bid shall constitute a revocation of the Competitive Bid that contained the manifest error.  The Administrative Agent may, but shall not be required to, notify any Lender of any manifest error it detects in such Lender's Competitive Bid.
 
(iv)          Subject only to the provisions of Sections 3.02, 3.03 and 4.02 and clause (iii) above, each Competitive Bid shall be irrevocable.
 
(d)             Not later than 11:00 a.m. (i) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, or (ii) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company of the identity of each Lender that has submitted a Competitive Bid that complies with Section 2.03(c) and of the terms of the offers contained in each such Competitive Bid.
Notice to Borrower of Competitive Bids.
 
(e)             Not later than 11:30 a.m. (i) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, and (ii) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans, the Company shall notify the Administrative Agent of its acceptance or rejection of the offers notified to it pursuant to Section 2.03(d).  The Company shall be under no obligation to accept any Competitive Bid and may choose to reject all Competitive Bids.  In the case of acceptance, such notice shall specify the aggregate principal amount of Competitive Bids for
Acceptance of Competitive Bids.
each Interest Period that is accepted.  The Company may accept any Competitive Bid in whole or in part; that:
provided
 
(i)            the aggregate principal amount of each Bid Borrowing may not exceed the applicable amount set forth in the related Bid Request;
 
(ii)           the principal amount of each Bid Loan must be $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof;
 
(iii)          the acceptance of offers may be made only on the basis of ascending Absolute Rates or Eurodollar Bid Margins within each Interest Period; and
 
(iv)          the Company may not accept any offer that is described in Section 2.03(c)(iii) or that otherwise fails to comply with the requirements hereof.
 
(f)            .  If two or more Lenders have submitted Competitive Bids at the same Absolute Rate or Eurodollar Bid Margin, as the case may be, for the same Interest Period, and the result of accepting all of such Competitive Bids in whole (together with any other Competitive Bids at lower Absolute Rates or Eurodollar Bid Margins, as the case may be, accepted for such Interest Period in conformity with the requirements of Section 2.03(e)(iii)) would be to cause the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the applicable Bid Borrowing to exceed the amount specified therefor in the related Bid Request, then, unless otherwise agreed by the Company, the Administrative Agent and such Lenders, such Competitive Bids shall be accepted as nearly as possible in proportion to the amount offered by each such Lender in respect of such Interest Period, with such accepted amounts being rounded to the nearest whole multiple of $1,000,000.
Procedure for Identical Bids
 
(g)             The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender having submitted a Competitive Bid whether or not its offer has been accepted and, if its offer has been accepted, of the amount of the Bid Loan or Bid Loans to be made by it on the date of the applicable Bid Borrowing.  Any Competitive Bid or portion thereof that is not accepted by the Company by the applicable time specified in Section 2.03(e) shall be deemed rejected.
Notice to Lenders of Acceptance or Rejection of Bids.
 
(h)             If any Bid Borrowing is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Loans, the Administrative Agent shall determine the Eurocurrency Rate for the relevant Interest Period, and promptly after making such determination, shall notify the Company and the Lenders that will be participating in such Bid Borrowing of such Eurocurrency Rate.
Notice of Eurocurrency Rate.
 
(i)              Each Lender that has received notice pursuant to Section 2.03(g) that all or a portion of its Competitive Bid has been accepted by the Company shall make the amount of its Bid Loan(s) available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date of the requested Bid Borrowing.  Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in Section 4.02, the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Company in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent.
Funding of Bid Loans.
(j)              After each Competitive Bid auction pursuant to this Section 2.03, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender that submitted a Competitive Bid in such auction of the ranges of bids submitted (without the bidder's name) and accepted for each Bid Loan and the aggregate amount of each Bid Borrowing.
Notice of Range of Bids.
 
Section 2.04.  [Reserved].
 
Section 2.05.(a) .  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lender agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this Section 2.05, to make loans in Dollars (each such loan, a "") to the Company from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the Swing Line Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of Committed Loans of the Lender acting as Swing Line Lender, may exceed the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , that (x) after giving effect to any Swing Line Loan, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, (y) the Company shall not use the proceeds of any Swing Line Loan to refinance any outstanding Swing Line Loan and (z) the Swing Line Lender shall not be under any obligation to make any Swing Line Loan if it shall determine (which determination shall be conclusive and binding absent manifest error) that it has, or by such Credit Extension may have, Fronting Exposure.  Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Company may borrow under this Section 2.05, prepay under Section 2.06, and reborrow under this Section 2.05.  Each Swing Line Loan shall be a Base Rate Loan.  Immediately upon the making of a Swing Line Loan, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage the amount of such Swing Line Loan.
  Swing Line Loans. 
The Swing Line
Swing Line Loan
provided, however
plus
times
 
(b)             Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made upon the Company's irrevocable notice to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. on the requested borrowing date, and shall specify (i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of $5,000,000, and (ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day.  Each such telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written Swing Line Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company.  Promptly after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of any telephonic Swing Line Loan Notice, the Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received such Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the Swing Line Lender will notify the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof.  Unless the Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing) from the Administrative Agent (including at the request of any Lender) prior to 2:00 p.m. on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the Swing Line Lender not to make such Swing Line Loan as a result of the limitations set forth in the proviso to the first sentence of Section 2.05(a), or (B) that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in
Borrowing Procedures.
Article 4 is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swing Line Lender will, not later than 3:00 p.m. on the borrowing date specified in such Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its Swing Line Loan available to the Company at its office by crediting the account of the Company on the books of the Swing Line Lender in Same-Day Funds.
 
(c)           (i) The Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may request, on behalf of the Company (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Lender make a Base Rate Committed Loan in an amount equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of Swing Line Loans then outstanding.  Such request shall be made in writing (which written request shall be deemed to be a Committed Loan Notice for purposes hereof) and in accordance with the requirements of Section 2.02, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in Section 4.02.  The Swing Line Lender shall furnish the Company with a copy of the applicable Committed Loan Notice promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent.  Each Lender shall make an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the amount specified in such Committed Loan Notice available to the Administrative Agent in Same-Day Funds for the account of the Swing Line Lender at the Administrative Agent's Office for Dollar-denominated payments not later than 1:00 p.m. on the day specified in such Committed Loan Notice, whereupon, subject to Section 2.05(c)(ii), each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Company in such amount.  The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swing Line Lender.
Refinancing of Swing Line Loans. 
 
(ii)           If for any reason any Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Committed Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.05(c)(i), the request for Base Rate Committed Loans submitted by the Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swing Line Lender that each of the Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan and each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender pursuant to Section 2.05(c)(i) shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.
 
(iii)          If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.05(c) by the time specified in Section 2.05(c)(i), the Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Swing Line Lender in connection with the foregoing.  If such Lender pays such amount (with interest and fees as aforesaid), the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in the relevant Committed Borrowing of funded participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan, as the case may be.  A certificate of the Swing Line Lender submitted to any Lender (through
the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (iii) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
 
(iv)          Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swing Line Loans pursuant to this Section 2.05(c) shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the Swing Line Lender, the Company or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this Section 2.05(c) is subject to the conditions set forth in Section 4.02.  No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Company to repay Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.
provided, however
 
(d)             (i)  At any time after any Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Swing Line Loan, if the Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of such Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in the same funds as those received by the Swing Line Lender.
Repayment of Participations.
 
(ii)           If any payment received by the Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or interest on any Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender under any of the circumstances described in Section 10.05 (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Swing Line Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate.  The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Swing Line Lender.  The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
plus
 
(e)             The Swing Line Lender shall be responsible for invoicing the Company for interest on the Swing Line Loans.  Until each Lender funds its Base Rate Committed Loan or risk participation pursuant to this Section 2.05 to refinance such Lender's Applicable Percentage of any Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Applicable Percentage shall be solely for the account of the Swing Line Lender.
Interest for Account of Swing Line Lender.
 
(f)              The Company shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Swing Line Loans directly to the Swing Line Lender.
Payments Directly to Swing Line Lender.
 
Section 2.06.  (a) Each Borrower may, upon notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Committed Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Dollars, (B) four Business Days (or five, in the case of prepayment of Loans denominated in Special Notice Currencies) prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in
  Prepayments.
provided
 
Alternative Currencies, and (C) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Dollars shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; (iii) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies shall be in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iv) any prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding.  Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Committed Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurocurrency Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans.  The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment.  If such notice is given by the Company, the applicable Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.  Any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to Section 3.05.  Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Committed Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
 
(b)
                                
No Bid Loan may be prepaid without the prior consent of the applicable Bid Loan Lender.
 
(c)
                                 
The Company may, upon notice to the Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date of the prepayment, and (ii) any such prepayment shall be in a minimum principal amount of $1,000,000.  Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment.  If such notice is given by the Company, the Company shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.
provided
 
(d)
                                
If the Administrative Agent notifies the Company at any time that the Total Outstandings at such time exceed an amount equal to 105% of the Aggregate Commitments, then, within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, the Borrowers shall prepay Loans in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such Outstanding Amount as of such date of payment to an amount not to exceed the Aggregate Commitments.
 
(e)
                                 
If the Administrative Agent notifies the Company at any time that the Outstanding Amount of all Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies at such time exceeds an amount equal to 105% of the Alternative Currency Sublimit, then, within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, the Borrowers shall prepay Loans in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such Outstanding Amount as of such date of payment to an amount not to exceed the Alternative Currency Sublimit.
 
Section 2.07.The Company may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be
  Termination or Reduction of Commitments. 
provided
 
received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. five Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (iii) the Company shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (iv) if, after giving effect to any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments, the Alternative Currency Sublimit, the Bid Loan Sublimit, the Designated Borrower Sublimit or the Swing Line Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Commitments, such Sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess.  The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments.  The amount of any such Aggregate Commitment reduction shall not be applied to the Alternative Currency Sublimit unless otherwise specified by the Company.  Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage.  All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
 
Section 2.08.(a) Each Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Committed Loans made to such Borrower outstanding on such date.
  Repayment of Loans. 
 
(b)
                                
The Company shall repay each Bid Loan on the last day of the Interest Period in respect thereof.
 
(c)
                                 
The Company shall repay each Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the date ten Business Days after such Loan is made and (ii) the Maturity Date.
 
Section 2.09.(a)  Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate (in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan of any Lender which is lent from a Lending Office in the United Kingdom or a Participating Member State) the Mandatory Cost; (ii) each Base Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate; (iii) each Bid Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for the Interest Period therefor at a rate per annum equal to the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period (or ) the Eurodollar Bid Margin, or at the Absolute Rate for such Interest Period, as the case may be; and (iv) each Swing Line Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate.
  Interest. 
plus
plus
plus
plus
minus
plus
 
(b)
                                
(i)
                                    
If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
 
(ii)
                                 
If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by any Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace
periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
 
(iii)
                              
Upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists (other than as set forth in clauses (b)(i) and (b)(ii) above), the Borrowers shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
 
(iv)
                             
Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
 
(c)
                                 
Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein.  Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
 
Section 2.10.(a)   The Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a facility fee in Dollars equal to the Applicable Rate (specified in the column titled "Facility Fee" of such definition) the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments.  The facility fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period, including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in Article 4 is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the Maturity Date.  The facility fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
  Fees. 
Facility Fee.
times
 
(b)
                                
Other Fees. 
(i) The Company shall pay to the Arrangers and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts, in Dollars, fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letters or other letter between any Arranger and the Company.  Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
 
(ii)
                                 
The Company shall pay to the Lenders, in Dollars, such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified.  Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
 
Section 2.11.All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans (including Base Rate Loans determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Rate) shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed.  All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if
  Computation of Interest and Fees. 
computed on the basis of a 365-day year), or, in the case of interest in respect of Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies as to which market practice differs from the foregoing, in accordance with such market practice.  Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to Section 2.13(a), bear interest for one day.  Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
provided
 
Section 2.12.(a) The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business.  The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrowers and the interest and payments thereon.  Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrowers hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations.  In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.  Upon the request of any Lender to a Borrower made through the Administrative Agent, such Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans to such Borrower in addition to such accounts or records.  Each Lender may attach schedules to a Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount, currency and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
  Evidence of Debt. 
 
(b)
                                
In addition to the accounts and records referred to in subsection (a), each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Swing Line Loans.  In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.
 
Section 2.13.(a)   All payments to be made by the Borrowers shall be made free and clear of and without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein and except with respect to principal of and interest on Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, herein, all payments by the Borrowers hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in Same-Day Funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrowers hereunder with respect to principal and interest on Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in such Alternative Currency and in Same-Day Funds not later than the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent on the dates specified herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent may require that any payments due under this Agreement be made in the United States.  If, for any reason, any
  Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback. 
General.
 
Borrower is prohibited by any Law from making any required payment hereunder in an Alternative Currency, such Borrower shall make such payment in Dollars in the Dollar Equivalent of the Alternative Currency payment amount. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office.  All payments received by the Administrative Agent (i) after 2:00 p.m., in the case of payments in Dollars, or (ii) after the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of payments in an Alternative Currency, shall in each case be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue.  If any payment to be made by any Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
 
(b)
                                
(i)
                                    
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent.
  Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Committed Borrowing of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans (or, in the case of any Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 12:00 noon on the date of such Committed Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Committed Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with Section 2.02 (or, in the case of a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by Section 2.02) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower a corresponding amount.  In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the applicable Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in Same-Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to such Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the Overnight Rate, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by such Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans.  If such Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to such Borrower the amount of such interest paid by such Borrower for such period.  If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in such Committed Borrowing.  Any payment by such Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
 
(ii)
                                 
Payments by Borrowers; Presumptions by Administrative Agent.
  Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due.  In such event, if such Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the
Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender, in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Overnight Rate.
 
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
 
(c)
                                 
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent.
  If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender to any Borrower as provided in the foregoing provisions of this Article 2, and such funds are not made available to such Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in Article 4 are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
 
(d)
                                
Obligations of Lenders Several.
  The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Committed Loans, to fund participations in Swing Line Loans and to make payments pursuant to Section 10.04(c) are several and not joint.  The failure of any Lender to make any Committed Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under Section 10.04(c) on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Committed Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under Section 10.04(c).
 
(e)
                                 
Funding Source.
  Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
 
Section 2.14.If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it, or the participations in Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Committed Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Committed Loans and subparticipations in Swing Line Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Committed Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
  Sharing of Payments by Lenders. 
pro rata
provided
 
(i)
                 
if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
(ii)
              
the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by a Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement (including the application of funds arising from the existence of a Defaulting Lender) or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Committed Loans or subparticipations in Swing Line Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Company or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
 
Each Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.
 
Section 2.15.(a) The Company may at any time, upon not less than 15 Business Days' notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), designate any wholly owned Subsidiary of the Company (an "") as a Designated Borrower to receive Loans hereunder by delivering to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly deliver counterparts thereof to each Lender) a duly executed notice and agreement in substantially the form of Exhibit I (a "".  The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that prior to any Applicant Borrower becoming entitled to utilize the credit facilities provided for herein the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall have received such supporting resolutions, incumbency certificates, opinions of counsel (to the extent the Applicant Borrower may be a Foreign Subsidiary), and other documents or information, in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, as may be required by the Administrative Agent or any Lenders in their reasonable discretion (including any information required pursuant to Section 10.18), and Notes signed by such new Borrower to the extent any Lenders so require.  If the Administrative Agent and all of the Lenders agree that an Applicant Borrower shall be entitled to receive Loans hereunder, then promptly following receipt of all such requested resolutions, incumbency certificates, opinions of counsel and other documents or information, the Administrative Agent shall send a notice in substantially the form of Exhibit J (a "") to the Company and the Lenders specifying the effective date upon which the Applicant Borrower shall constitute a Designated Borrower for purposes hereof, whereupon each of the Lenders agrees to permit such Designated Borrower to receive Loans hereunder, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, and each of the parties agrees that such Designated Borrower otherwise shall be a Borrower for all purposes of this Agreement; that no Committed Loan Notice may be submitted by or on behalf of such Designated Borrower until the date five Business Days after such effective date.
  Designated Borrowers. 
Applicant Borrower
Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement
Designated Borrower Notice
provided
 
(b)
                                
The Obligations of the Company and each Designated Borrower that is a Domestic Subsidiary shall be joint and several in nature.  The Obligations of all Designated Borrowers that are Foreign Subsidiaries shall be several in nature.
(c)
                                 
Each Subsidiary of the Company that becomes a "Designated Borrower" pursuant to this Section 2.15 hereby irrevocably appoints the Company as its agent for all purposes relevant to this Agreement and each of the other Loan Documents, including (i) the giving and receipt of notices, (ii) the execution and delivery of all documents, instruments and certificates contemplated herein and all modifications hereto, and (iii) the receipt of the proceeds of any Loans made by the Lenders, to any such Designated Borrower hereunder.  Any acknowledgment, consent, direction, certification or other action which might otherwise be valid or effective only if given or taken by all Borrowers, or by each Borrower acting singly, shall be valid and effective if given or taken only by the Company, whether or not any such other Borrower joins therein.  Any notice, demand, consent, acknowledgement, direction, certification or other communication delivered to the Company in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been delivered to each Designated Borrower.
 
(d)
                                
The Company may from time to time, upon not less than 15 Business Days' notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), terminate a Designated Borrower's status as such, that there are no outstanding Loans payable by such Designated Borrower, or other amounts payable by such Designated Borrower on account of any Loans made to it as of the effective date of such termination. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such termination of a Designated Borrower's status.
provided
 
Section 2.16.(a) .  The Company may, by notice to the Administrative Agent (who shall promptly notify the Lenders) not earlier than 45 days and not later than 35 days prior to any anniversary of the Closing Date (each such anniversary, as applicable, the ""), request that each Lender extend such Lender's Maturity Date for an additional one year from the Maturity Date then in effect hereunder (the "").
  Extension of Maturity Date. 
Requests for Extension
Extension Date
Existing Maturity Date
 
(b)
                                
Lender Elections to Extend.
  Each Lender, acting in its sole and individual discretion, shall, by notice to the Administrative Agent given not earlier than 30 days prior to the applicable Extension Date and not later than the date (the "") that is 20 days prior to the applicable Extension Date, advise the Administrative Agent whether or not such Lender agrees to such extension, and each Lender that determines not to so extend its Maturity Date (a "") shall notify the Administrative Agent of such fact promptly after such determination (but in any event no later than the Notice Date) and any Lender that does not so advise the Administrative Agent on or before the Notice Date shall be deemed to be a Non-Extending Lender.  The election of any Lender to agree to such extension shall not obligate any other Lender to so agree.
Notice Date
Non-Extending Lender
 
(c)
                                 
Notification by Administrative Agent.
  The Administrative Agent shall notify the Company of each Lender's determination under this Section no later than the date 15 days prior to the applicable Extension Date (or, if such date is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day).
 
(d)
                                
Additional Commitment Lenders.
  The Company shall have the right on or before the applicable Extension Date to replace each Non-Extending Lender with, and add as "Lenders" under this Agreement in place thereof, one or more Eligible Assignees (each, an "
Additional
Commitment Lender
") as provided in Section 10.13, each of which Additional Commitment Lenders shall have entered into an Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Additional Commitment Lender shall, effective as of the applicable Extension Date, undertake a Commitment (and, if any such Additional Commitment Lender is already a Lender, its Commitment shall be in addition to such Lender's Commitment hereunder on such date).
 
(e)
                                 
Minimum Extension Requirement.
  If (and only if) the total of the Commitments of the Lenders that have agreed so to extend their Maturity Date and the additional Commitments of the Additional Commitment Lenders shall be more than 50% of the aggregate amount of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the applicable Extension Date, then, effective as of the applicable Extension Date, the Maturity Date of each Extending Lender and of each Additional Commitment Lender shall be extended to the date falling one year after the Existing Maturity Date (except that, if such date is not a Business Day, such Maturity Date as so extended shall be the next preceding Business Day) and each Additional Commitment Lender shall thereupon become a "Lender" for all purposes of this Agreement.
 
(f)
                                  
Conditions to Effectiveness of Extensions.
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the extension of the Maturity Date pursuant to this Section shall not be effective with respect to any Lender unless:
 
(i)
                                    
no Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such extension and after giving effect thereto;
 
(ii)
                                 
the representations and warranties contained in this Agreement are true and correct on and as of the date of such extension and after giving effect thereto, as though made on and as of such date (or, if any such representation or warranty is expressly stated to have been made as of a specific date, as of such specific date); and
 
(iii)
                              
on the Maturity Date of each Non-Extending Lender, the Borrowers shall prepay any Committed Loans outstanding on such date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to Section 3.05) to the extent necessary to keep outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages of the respective Lenders effective as of such date.
 
(g)
                                 
Conflicting Provisions.
  This Section shall supersede any provisions in Section 2.14 or 10.01 to the contrary.
 
Section 2.17.(a)   Provided there exists no Default, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders), the Company may from time to time, request an increase in the Aggregate Commitments by an amount (for all such requests together) not exceeding in the aggregate $500,000,000; that (i) any such request for an increase shall be in a minimum amount of $25,000,000, and (ii) the Company may make a maximum of five such requests.  At the time of sending such notice, the Company (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Lender is requested to respond (which shall in no event be less than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of such notice to the Lenders).
  Increase In Commitments. 
Request for Increase.
provided
(b)
                                
Lender Elections to Increase.
  Each Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within such time period whether or not it agrees to increase its Commitment and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or less than its Applicable Percentage of such requested increase.  Any Lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Commitment.
 
(c)
                                 
Notification by Administrative Agent; Additional Lenders.
  The Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and each Lender of the Lenders' responses to each request made hereunder.  To achieve the full amount of a requested increase and subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Swing Line Lender (which approvals shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Company may also invite additional Eligible Assignees to become Lenders pursuant to a joinder agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
 
(d)
                                
Effective Date and Allocations.
  If the Aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Company shall determine the effective date (the "") and the final allocation of such increase.  The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company and the Lenders of the final allocation of such increase and the Increase Effective Date.
Increase Effective Date
 
(e)
                                 
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase.
  As a condition precedent to such increase, the Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of each Loan Party dated as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of such Loan Party (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by such Loan Party approving or consenting to such increase, and (ii) in the case of the Company, certifying that, before and after giving effect to such increase, (A) the representations and warranties contained in Article 5 and the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the Increase Effective Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this Section 2.17, the representations and warranties contained in clauses (a) and (b) of Section 5.05 shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of Section 6.01, and (B) no Default exists.  The Borrowers shall prepay any Committed Loans outstanding on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to Section 3.05) to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages arising from any nonratable increase in the Commitments under this Section.
 
(f)
                                  
Conflicting Provisions.
  This Section shall supersede any provisions in Section 2.14 or 10.01 to the contrary.
 
Section 2.18.  .
Defaulting Lenders
 
(a)
                                
Adjustments
.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then, until such time as that Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender, to the extent permitted by applicable Law:
 
(i)
                                    
Waivers and Amendments
.  Such Defaulting Lender's right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent with respect to this Agreement shall be restricted as set forth in the definition of "Required Lenders" and Section 10.01.
 
(ii)
                                 
Defaulting Lender Waterfall
.  Any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Defaulting Lender (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to Article 8 or otherwise) or received by the Administrative Agent from a Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 10.08 shall be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Administrative Agent as follows: first, to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent hereunder; second, to the payment on a pro rata basis of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Swing Line Lender hereunder; third, as the Company may request (so long as no Default or Event of Default exists), to the funding of any Loan in respect of which such Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Administrative Agent; fourth, if so determined by the Administrative Agent and the Company, to be held in a deposit account and released in order to satisfy such Defaulting Lender's potential future funding obligations with respect to Loans under this Agreement; fifth, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders or Swing Line Lender as a result of any final and non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender or the Swing Line Lender against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; sixth, so long as no Default or Event of Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Company as a result of any final and non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by the Company against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and seventh, to such Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction; that if (x) such payment is a payment of the principal amount of any Loans in respect of which such Defaulting Lender has not fully funded its appropriate share, and (y) such Loans were made at a time when the conditions set forth in Section 4.02 were satisfied or waived, such payment shall be applied solely to pay the Loans of all Non-Defaulting Lenders on a pro rata basis prior to being applied to the payment of any Loans of such Defaulting Lender until such time as all Loans and Swing Line Loans are held by the Lenders pro rata in accordance with the Commitments hereunder without giving effect to Section 2.18(a)(iv). Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender shall be deemed paid to and redirected by such Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.
provided
 
(iii)
                              
Certain Fees.
 
(A)
                              
Each Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive fees payable under Section 2.10(a) for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender only to extent allocable to the outstanding principal amount of the Committed Loans funded by it.
(B)
                              
With respect to any fee payable under Section 2.10(a) not required to be paid to any Defaulting Lender pursuant to clause (A) above, the Company shall (x) pay to each Non-Defaulting Lender that portion of any such fee otherwise payable to such Defaulting Lender with respect to such Defaulting Lender's participation in Swing Line Loans that has been reallocated to such Non-Defaulting Lender pursuant to clause (iv) below, (y) pay to the Swing Line Lender, as applicable, the amount of any such fee otherwise payable to such Defaulting Lender to the extent allocable to such Swing Line Lender's Fronting Exposure to such Defaulting Lender, and (z) not be required to pay the remaining amount of any such fee.
 
(iv)
                             
Reallocation of Applicable Percentages to Reduce Fronting Exposure
.  All or any part of such Defaulting Lender's participation in Swing Line Loans shall be reallocated among the Non-Defaulting Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages (calculated without regard to such Defaulting Lender's Commitment) but only to the extent that (x) the conditions set forth in Section 4.02 are satisfied at the time of such reallocation (and, unless the Company shall have otherwise notified the Administrative Agent at such time, the Company shall be deemed to have represented and warranted that such conditions are satisfied at such time), and (y) such reallocation does not cause the aggregate Outstanding Amount of Committed Loans of any Non-Defaulting Lender plus such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans to exceed such Non-Defaulting Lender's Commitment.  No reallocation hereunder shall constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder against a Defaulting Lender arising from that Lender having become a Defaulting Lender, including any claim of a Non-Defaulting Lender as a result of such Non-Defaulting Lender's increased exposure following such reallocation.
 
(v)
                                
Repayment of Swing Line Loans
.  If the reallocation described in clause (a)(iv) above cannot, or can only partially, be effected, the Company shall, without prejudice to any right or remedy available to it hereunder or under applicable Law, prepay Swing Line Loans in an amount equal to the Swing Line Lenders' Fronting Exposure.
 
(b)
                                
Defaulting Lender Cure
.  If the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Swing Line Lender agree in writing that a Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender, the Administrative Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein, that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase at par that portion of outstanding Loans of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Administrative Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Committed Loans and funded and unfunded participations in Swing Line Loans to be held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their Applicable Percentages (without giving effect to Section 2.18(a)(iv)), whereupon such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Company while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and , , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
provided
provided
further
Section 3.01.
  Taxes.
 
(a)
                                
Payments Free of Taxes; Obligation to Withhold; Payments on Account of Taxes
.
 
(i)
                                    
Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of any Borrower under any Loan Document shall be made without deduction or withholding for any Taxes, except as required by applicable Laws.  If any applicable Laws (as determined in the good faith discretion of the applicable Borrower or the Administrative Agent) require the deduction or withholding of any Tax from any such payment by such Borrower or the Administrative Agent, then such Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to make such deduction or withholding, upon the basis of the information and documentation to be delivered pursuant to subsection (e) below.
 
(ii)
                                 
If any Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall be required to withhold or deduct any Taxes from any payment, then (A) such Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall withhold or make such deductions as are determined by such Borrower or the Administrative Agent to be required based upon the information and documentation it has received pursuant to subsection (e) below, (B) such Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall timely pay the full amount withheld or deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Laws, and (C) to the extent that the withholding or deduction is made on account of Indemnified Taxes, the sum payable by the applicable Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that after any required withholding or the making of all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 3.01) the applicable Recipient receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such withholding or deduction been made.
 
(b)
                                
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrowers
.  Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, each Borrower shall timely pay to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law, or at the option of the Administrative Agent timely reimburse it for the payment of, any Other Taxes.
 
(c)
                                 
Indemnification by the Borrowers
.
 
(i)
                                    
Each Borrower shall, and does hereby, indemnify each Recipient with respect to such Borrower's Obligations, and shall make payment in respect thereof within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section 3.01) payable or paid by such Recipient and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority; , that the applicable Borrower shall not be obligated to make payment to such Recipient pursuant to this Section 3.01 in respect of penalties, interest and other liabilities
provided, however
attributable to any Indemnified Taxes, if (x) such Recipient fails to notify such Borrower of the imposition of such Indemnified Taxes within 30 days following the receipt of actual written notice of the imposition of such Indemnified Taxes, and such penalties, interest and other liabilities are attributable to the period beginning after such 30
th
 day and ending 10 days after such Borrower receives notice from such Recipient; (y) such penalties, interest and other liabilities are attributable to any period after any Borrower has indemnified such Recipient for, or paid any additional amount with respect to, such Indemnified Taxes pursuant to this Section 3.01; or (z) such penalties, interest and other liabilities are attributable to the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Recipient.  A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the applicable Borrower by a Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
 
(ii)
                                 
Each Lender shall, and does hereby, severally indemnify, and shall make payment in respect thereof within 10 days after demand therefor, (x) the Administrative Agent against any Indemnified Taxes attributable to such Lender (but only to the extent that any Borrower has not already indemnified the Administrative Agent for such Indemnified Taxes and without limiting the obligation of the Borrowers to do so), (y) the Administrative Agent and the Borrowers, as applicable, against any Taxes attributable to such Lender's failure to comply with the provisions of Section 10.06(d) relating to the maintenance of a Participant Register and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Borrowers, as applicable, against any Excluded Taxes attributable to such Lender, in each case, that are payable or paid by the Administrative Agent or any Borrower in connection with any Loan Document, and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority.  A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to any Lender by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive absent manifest error.  Each Lender hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender under this Agreement or any other Loan Document against any amount due to the Administrative Agent under this clause (ii).
 
(d)
                                
Evidence of Payments
.  Upon request by any Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, after any payment of Taxes by such Borrower or by the Administrative Agent to a Governmental Authority as provided in this Section 3.01, such Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Administrative Agent shall deliver to such Borrower, as the case may be, the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of any return required by Laws to report such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to such Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be.
 
(e)
                                 
Status of Lenders; Tax Documentation
.
 
(i)
                                    
Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding Tax with respect to payments made under any Loan Document shall deliver to the applicable Borrower and the Administrative Agent, at the time or times reasonably
requested by any Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation reasonably requested by such Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding.  In addition, any Lender, if reasonably requested by such Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by such Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable such Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the preceding two sentences, the completion, execution and submission of such documentation (other than such documentation set forth in Section 3.01(e)(ii)(A), (ii)(B) and (ii)(D) below) shall not be required if in the Lender's reasonable judgment such completion, execution or submission would subject such Lender to any material unreimbursed cost or expense or would materially prejudice the legal or commercial position of such Lender.
 
(ii)
                                 
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the case of a Borrower that is a U.S. Person,
 
(A)
                              
any Lender that is a U.S. Person shall deliver to such Borrower and the Administrative Agent on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of such Borrower or the Administrative Agent), executed originals of IRS Form W-9 certifying that such Lender is exempt from U.S. federal backup withholding;
 
(B)
                              
any Foreign Lender shall, to the extent it is legally entitled to do so, deliver to such Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of such Borrower or the Administrative Agent), whichever of the following is applicable:
 
(1)
                                
in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party (x) with respect to payments of interest under any Loan Document, executed originals of IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "interest" article of such tax treaty and (y) with respect to any other applicable payments under any Loan Document, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "business profits" or "other income" article of such tax treaty;
 
(2)
                                
executed originals of IRS Form W-8ECI;
 
(3)
                                
in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section
881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit L-1 to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, a "10 percent shareholder" of such Borrower within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or a "controlled foreign corporation" described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code (a "U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate") and (y) executed originals of IRS Form W-8BEN; or
 
(4)
                                
to the extent a Foreign Lender is not the beneficial owner, executed originals of IRS Form W-8IMY, accompanied by IRS Form W-8ECI, IRS Form W-8BEN, a U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit L-2 or Exhibit L-3, IRS Form W-9, and/or other certification documents from each beneficial owner, as applicable; that if the Foreign Lender is a partnership and one or more direct or indirect partners of such Foreign Lender are claiming the portfolio interest exemption, such Foreign Lender may provide a U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit L-4 on behalf of each such direct and indirect partner;
provided
 
(C)
                              
any Foreign Lender shall, to the extent it is legally entitled to do so, deliver to such Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of such Borrower or the Administrative Agent), executed originals of any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in U.S. federal withholding Tax, duly completed, together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit such Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made; and
 
(D)
                              
If a payment made to a Lender under any Loan Document would be subject to U.S. federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by such Borrower or the Administrative Agent such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by such Borrower or the Administrative Agent as may be necessary for such Borrower and the Administrative Agent to comply with their obligations under FATCA and to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment.  Solely for the purposes of this clause (f), "FATCA" shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
(iii)
                              
Without limiting the obligations of the Lenders set forth above regarding delivery of certain forms and documents to establish each Lender's status for U.S. withholding tax purposes, each Lender agrees promptly to deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Company, as the Administrative Agent or the Company shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such other documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any other jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by such Lender, as are required under such Laws to confirm such Lender's entitlement to any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable withholding taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender outside of the U.S. by the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lender's status for withholding tax purposes in such other jurisdiction.  Each Lender shall promptly (A) notify the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstance which would modify or render invalid any such claimed exemption or reduction, and (B) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any such jurisdiction that any Borrower make any deduction or withholding for taxes from amounts payable to such Lender.  Additionally, each of the Borrowers shall promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the Administrative Agent or such Lender shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by such Borrower, as are required to be furnished by such Lender or the Administrative Agent under such Laws in connection with any payment by the Administrative Agent or any Lender of Taxes or Other Taxes, or otherwise in connection with the Loan Documents, with respect to such jurisdiction.
 
(iv)
                             
Each Lender agrees that if any form or certification it previously delivered pursuant to this Section 3.01 expires or becomes obsolete or inaccurate in any respect, it shall update such form or certification or promptly notify the Company and the Administrative Agent in writing of its legal inability to do so.
 
(f)
                                  
Treatment of Certain Refunds
.  Unless required by applicable Laws, at no time shall the Administrative Agent have any obligation to file for or otherwise pursue on behalf of a Lender, or have any obligation to pay to any Lender, any refund of Taxes withheld or deducted from funds paid for the account of such Lender.  If any Recipient determines in its sole discretion exercised in good faith that it has received a refund of any Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by any Borrower or with respect to which any Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 3.01, it shall promptly pay over the amount of such refund (including any interest paid or credited by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund) to such Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by such Borrower under this Section 3.01 with respect to the Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by such Recipient, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund, that such Borrower, upon the request of the Recipient, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority in connection therewith) to the Recipient in the event and to the extent
provided
that the Recipient is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this subsection, in no event will the applicable Recipient be required to pay any amount to any Borrower pursuant to this subsection if such payment would place the Recipient in a less favorable net after-Tax position than such Recipient would have been in if the indemnification payments or additional amounts giving rise to such refund had never been paid.  This subsection shall not be construed to require any Recipient to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the applicable Borrower or any other Person.
 
(g)
                                 
Survival
.  Each party's obligations under this Section 3.01 shall survive the resignation or replacement of the Administrative Agent or any assignment of rights by, or the replacement of, a Lender, the termination of the Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all obligations under any Loan Document.
 
Section 3.02.If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Loans whose interest is determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Rate (whether denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency), or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars or any Alternative Currency in the applicable interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Company through the Administrative Agent, (i) any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans in Dollars, to convert Base Rate Committed Loans to Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans, shall be suspended, and (ii) if such notice asserts the illegality of such Lender making or maintaining Base Rate Loans the interest rate on which is determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Rate component of the Base Rate, the interest rate on which Base Rate Loans of such Lender shall, if necessary to avoid such illegality, be determined by the Administrative Agent without reference to the Eurocurrency Rate component of the Base Rate, in each case until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Company that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist.  Upon receipt of such notice, (x) the Borrowers shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable and such Loans are denominated in Dollars, convert all such Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans (the interest rate on which Base Rate Loans of such Lender shall, if necessary to avoid such illegality, be determined by the Administrative Agent without reference to the Eurocurrency Rate component of the Base Rate), either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans and (y) if such notice asserts the illegality of such Lender determining or charging interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate, the Administrative Agent shall during the period of such suspension compute the Base Rate applicable to such Lender without reference to the Eurocurrency Rate component thereof until the Administrative Agent is advised in writing by such Lender that it is no longer illegal for such Lender to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate.  Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrowers shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
  Illegality. 
Section 3.03.If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) deposits (whether in Dollars or an Alternative Currency) are not being offered to banks in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurocurrency Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan (whether denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency) or in connection with an existing or proposed Base Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurocurrency Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Company and each Lender.  Thereafter, (x) the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies shall be suspended, (y) in the event of a determination described in the preceding sentence with respect to the Eurocurrency Rate component of the Base Rate, the utilization of the Eurocurrency Rate component in determining the Base Rate shall be suspended, in each case until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice.  Upon receipt of such notice, the Company may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
  Inability to Determine Rates. 
 
Section 3.04.  If any Change in Law shall:  (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except (A) any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurocurrency Rate and (B) the requirements of the Bank of England and the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank reflected in the Mandatory Cost, other than as set forth below);
  Increased Costs; Reserves on Eurocurrency Rate Loans. (a) Increased Costs Generally.
 
(ii)
                                 
subject any Lender to any Taxes (other than (A) Indemnified Taxes and (B) the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Taxes) on its loans, loan principal, letters of credit, commitments, or other obligations, or its deposits, reserves, other liabilities or capital attributable thereto;
 
(iii)
                              
result in the failure of the Mandatory Cost, as calculated hereunder, to represent the cost to any Lender of complying with the requirements of the Bank of England and/or the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank in relation to its making, funding or maintaining Eurocurrency Rate Loans; or
 
(iv)
                             
impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Rate Loans made by such Lender;
 
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Loan the interest on which is determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Rate (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender,
or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender, the Company will pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
 
(b)
                                
Capital Requirements.
  If any Lender determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's holding company, if any, regarding capital or liquidity requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by, or participations in Swing Line Loans held by, such Lender to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Company will pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
 
(c)
                                 
Certificates for Reimbursement.
  A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Company shall be conclusive absent manifest error.  The Company shall pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
 
(d)
                                
Delay in Requests.
  Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation, that no Borrower shall be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than six months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Company of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
provided
 
(e)
                                 
Additional Reserve Requirements
.  The Company shall pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) to each Lender, (i)  as long as such Lender shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as "Eurocurrency liabilities"), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurocurrency Rate Loan equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), and (ii) as long as such Lender shall be required to comply with any reserve ratio requirement or analogous requirement of any central banking or financial regulatory authority imposed in respect of the maintenance of the Commitments or the funding of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, such additional costs (expressed as a percentage per annum and rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest five decimal places) equal to the actual costs allocated to such Commitment or Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good
 
faith, which determination shall be conclusive), which in each case shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan, that the Company shall have received at least 10 days' prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such additional interest or costs from such Lender.  If a Lender fails to give notice 10 days prior to Interest Payment Date, such additional interest or costs shall be due and payable 10 days from receipt of such notice.
provided
 
(f)            .  Any request by a Lender for compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall be made in accordance with such Lender's policies as applied generally to other borrowers.
Requests for Compensation
 
Section 3.05.Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Company shall promptly compensate (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to compensate) such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of: (a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
  Compensation for Losses. 
 
(b)           any failure by any Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Company or the applicable Designated Borrower;
 
(c)           any failure by any Borrower to make payment of any Loan (or interest due thereon) denominated in an Alternative Currency on its scheduled due date or any payment thereof in a different currency; or
 
(d)           any assignment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Company pursuant to Section 10.13;
 
including any loss of anticipated profits, any foreign exchange losses and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan, from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained or from the performance of any foreign exchange contract.  The Company shall also pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
 
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Company (or the applicable Designated Borrower) to the Lenders under this Section 3.05, each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan made by it at the Eurocurrency Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the offshore interbank market for such currency for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan was in fact so funded.
 
Section 3.06.All of the Borrowers' obligations under this Article 3 shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder, and the resignation of the Administrative Agent.
  Survival. 
 
Section 4.01.The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
  Conditions of Initial Credit Extension. 
 
(a)           The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or photocopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the signing Loan Party, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
 
(i)            executed counterparts of this Agreement and the Company Guaranty, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Company;
 
(ii)           Notes executed by the Borrowers in favor of each Lender requesting Notes;
 
(iii)          such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers or of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of each Loan Party as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party;
 
(iv)          such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that each Loan Party is duly organized or formed, and that the Company is validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business under the laws of Delaware and California;
 
(v)           an opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, counsel to the Loan Parties, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender substantially in the form of Exhibit K;
 
(vi)          a certificate of a Responsible Officer or of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of each Loan Party either (A) attaching copies of all consents, licenses and approvals required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by such Loan Party and the validity against such Loan Party of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect, or (B) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so required;
 
(vii)         a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer or of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Company certifying (A) that the conditions specified in Sections 4.02(a) and (b) have been satisfied, (B) that there has been no event or
circumstance since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has had, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and (C) the current Debt Rating;
 
(viii)        a duly completed Compliance Certificate as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Company ended on December 2, 2011, signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company;
 
(ix)          evidence that the Existing Credit Agreement has been, or concurrently with the Closing Date is being, terminated; and
 
(x)           such other assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent, the Swing Line Lender or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
 
(b)           Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
 
(c)           Unless waived by the Administrative Agent and subject to limitations otherwise agreed in writing, the Company shall have paid all fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent (directly to such counsel if requested by the Administrative Agent) to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings ( that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Company and the Administrative Agent).
provided
 
(d)           The Closing Date shall have occurred on or before March 31, 2012.
 
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 9.04, for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this Section 4.01, each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
 
Section 4.02.The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent: (a) The representations and warranties of (i) the Borrowers contained in Article 5 (except for the representations and warranties contained in Section 5.05(b) and 5.06 in the case of any Credit Extension after the Closing Date) and (ii) each Loan Party contained in each other Loan Document or in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, (x) that in either case (i) or (ii) are qualified by materiality shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, and (y) that are not qualified by materiality, shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Credit Extension; except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date.
  Conditions to All Credit Extensions. 
 
(b)           No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or the application of the proceeds thereof.
 
(c)           The Administrative Agent and, if applicable, the Swing Line Lender shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
 
(d)           If the applicable Borrower is a Designated Borrower, then the conditions of Section 2.15 to the designation of such Borrower as a Designated Borrower shall have been met to the satisfaction of the Administrative Agent.
 
(e)           In the case of a Credit Extension to be denominated in an Alternative Currency, there shall not have occurred any change in national or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls which in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent, the Required Lenders (in the case of any Loans to be denominated in an Alternative Currency) would make it impracticable for such Credit Extension to be denominated in the relevant Alternative Currency.
 
Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans) submitted by the Company shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in Sections 4.02(a) and (b) have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 5.19, each Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
 
Section 5.01.Each Loan Party and each Subsidiary thereof (a) is duly organized or formed, validly existing and, as applicable, in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority and all requisite governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to (i) own or lease its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and (c) is duly qualified and is licensed and, as applicable, in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license; except in each case referred to in clause (b)(i) or (c), to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
  Existence, Qualification and Power. 
 
Section 5.02.The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of each Loan Document to which such Person is party, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (a) contravene the terms of any of such Person's Organization Documents; (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, or require any payment to be made under (i) any material Contractual Obligation to which such Person is a party or affecting such Person or the properties of such Person or any of its Subsidiaries or (ii)
  Authorization; No Contravention. 
any material order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which such Person or its property is subject; or (c) violate any Law if such violation could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 5.03.No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, any Loan Party of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, except for those which have been made or obtained and are in full force and effect and except for any filing of this Agreement with the SEC.
  Governmental Authorization; Other Consents. 
 
Section 5.04.This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document, when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party that is party thereto.  This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party, enforceable against each Loan Party that is party thereto in accordance with its terms except as such enforceability may be limited by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
  Binding Effect. 
 
Section 5.05.(a) The Audited Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein.  Except as expressly set forth in such statements, Schedule 5.05 sets forth all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date of such financial statements, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
  Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect. 
 
(b)           Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 5.06.There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the Actual Knowledge of the Company after consultation with the general counsel of the Company, threatened or contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that (a) purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, or (b) except as specifically disclosed in Schedule 5.06, either individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and there has been no materially adverse change in the status,
  Litigation. 
or financial effect on any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof, of the matters described on Schedule 5.06.
 
Section 5.07.Neither any Loan Party nor any Subsidiary thereof is in default under or with respect to any Contractual Obligation that could, either individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  No Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
  No Default. 
 
Section 5.08.Each of the Company and each Subsidiary has good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of its business, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  The property of the Company and its Subsidiaries is subject to no Liens, other than Liens permitted by Section 7.01.
  Ownership of Property; Liens. 
 
Section 5.09.The Company and its Subsidiaries conduct in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws and claims alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law on their respective businesses, operations and properties.  Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has, except as specifically disclosed in Schedule 5.09, violated any Environmental Laws or have outstanding against it any claims asserting Environmental Liability where such violation or claims could, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
  Environmental Compliance. 
 
Section 5.10.The properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Company (other than an Eligible Captive Insurance Subsidiary), in such amounts (after giving effect to any self-insurance compatible with the following standards), with such deductibles and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where the Company or the applicable Subsidiary operates.
  Insurance. 
 
Section 5.11.The Company and its Subsidiaries have filed or caused to be filed all federal and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed (or extensions therefor have been obtained in accordance with applicable Law), and have paid or caused to be paid all federal and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP.  There is no proposed tax assessment against the Company or any Subsidiary that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
  Taxes. 
 
Section 5.12.(a) Each Pension Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state laws.  Each Pension Plan that is intended to be a qualified plan under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS to the effect that the form of such Pension Plan is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code and the trust related thereto has been
  ERISA Compliance. 
determined by the IRS to be exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(a) of the Code, or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the IRS.  To the Actual Knowledge of the Company, nothing has occurred that would prevent or cause the loss of such tax-qualified status.
 
(b)           There are no pending or, to the Actual Knowledge of the Company, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Pension Plan that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Pension Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(c)           (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events for which liability could, if enforced in accordance with applicable Law, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; (ii) the Company and each ERISA Affiliate has met all applicable requirements under the Pension Funding Rules in respect of each Pension Plan, and no waiver of the minimum funding standards under the Pension Funding Rules has been applied for or obtained; (iii) as of the most recent valuation date for any Pension Plan, the funding target attainment percentage (as defined in Section 430(d)(2) of the Code) is 60% or higher and neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate knows of any facts or circumstances that could reasonably be expected to cause the funding target attainment percentage for any such Pension Plan to drop below 60% as of the most recent valuation date; (iv) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred any liability to the PBGC other than for the payment of premiums, and there are no premium payments which have become due that are unpaid; (v) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Section 4069 or Section 4212(c) of ERISA; and (vi) no Pension Plan has been terminated by the plan administrator thereof nor by the PBGC, and no event or circumstance has occurred or exists that could reasonably be expected to cause the PBGC to institute proceedings under Title IV of ERISA to terminate any Pension Plan.
 
Section 5.13.As of the Closing Date, the Company has no Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in Schedule 5.13, and all of the outstanding Equity Interests in such Subsidiaries have been validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by a Loan Party in the amounts specified on Schedule 5.13 free and clear of all Liens. As of the Closing Date, there exist no Material Domestic Subsidiaries other than as listed on Schedule 1.01(s).
  Subsidiaries; Equity Interests. 
 
Section 5.14.(a) No Borrower is engaged or will engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock.
  Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act. 
 
(b)           None of the Company, or any Subsidiary is or is required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
 
Section 5.15.The Company has disclosed in filings made in accordance with applicable Securities Laws all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters of which it has Actual Knowledge, that, in each case individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  No written report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished in writing by or on behalf of any Loan Party to the Administrative Agent or any Lender with respect to the Company or its Subsidiaries in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder or under any other Loan Document (in each case, as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information and other forward-looking statements, the Company represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
  Disclosure. 
provided
 
Section 5.16.Each of the Company and each Subsidiary is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
  Compliance with Laws. 
 
Section 5.17.The true and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number of the Company and each Designated Borrower that is a Domestic Subsidiary and a party hereto on the Closing Date is set forth on Schedule 10.02.  The true and correct unique identification number of each Designated Borrower that is a Foreign Subsidiary and a party hereto on the Closing Date that has been issued by its jurisdiction of organization and the name of such jurisdiction are set forth on Schedule 5.17.
  Taxpayer Identification Number; Other Identifying Information. 
 
Section 5.18.The Company and its Subsidiaries own, or possess the right to use, all of the trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patents, patent rights, franchises, licenses and other intellectual property rights (collectively, "") that are reasonably necessary for the operation of their respective businesses, without conflict with the rights of any other Person, except for those for which the failure to own or possess the right to use could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  To the Actual Knowledge of the Company, no slogan or other advertising device, product, process, method, substance, part or other material now employed, or now contemplated to be employed, by the Company or any Subsidiary infringes upon any rights held by any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  Except as specifically disclosed in Schedule 5.18, no claim or litigation regarding any of the foregoing is pending or, to the Actual Knowledge of the Company, threatened, which, either individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
  Intellectual Property; Licenses, Etc. 
IP Rights
 
Section 5.19.Each of the Company and each Foreign Obligor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that: (a)
  Representations as to Foreign Obligors. 
Such Foreign Obligor is subject to civil and commercial Laws with respect to its obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which it is a party (collectively as to such Foreign Obligor, the ""), and the execution, delivery and performance by such Foreign Obligor of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents constitute and will constitute private and commercial acts and not public or governmental acts.  Neither such Foreign Obligor nor any of its property has any immunity from jurisdiction of any court or from any legal process (whether through service or notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution, execution or otherwise) under the laws of the jurisdiction in which such Foreign Obligor is organized and existing in respect of its obligations under the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents.
Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents
 
(b)           The Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents are in proper legal form under the Laws of the jurisdiction in which such Foreign Obligor is organized and existing for the enforcement thereof against such Foreign Obligor under the Laws of such jurisdiction, and to ensure the legality, validity, enforceability, priority or admissibility in evidence of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents.  It is not necessary to ensure the legality, validity, enforceability, priority or admissibility in evidence of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents that the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents be filed, registered or recorded with, or executed or notarized before, any court or other authority in the jurisdiction in which such Foreign Obligor is organized and existing or that any registration charge or stamp or similar tax be paid on or in respect of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents or any other document, except for (i) any such filing, registration, recording, execution or notarization as has been made or is not required to be made until the Applicable Foreign Obligor Document or any other document is sought to be enforced and (ii) any charge or tax as has been timely paid.
 
(c)           There is no tax, levy, impost, duty, fee, assessment or other governmental charge, or any deduction or withholding, imposed by any Governmental Authority in or of the jurisdiction in which such Foreign Obligor is organized and existing either (i) on or by virtue of the execution or delivery of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents or (ii) on any payment to be made by such Foreign Obligor pursuant to the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents, except as has been disclosed to the Administrative Agent.
 
(d)           The execution, delivery and performance of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents executed by such Foreign Obligor are, under applicable foreign exchange control regulations of the jurisdiction in which such Foreign Obligor is organized and existing, not subject to any notification or authorization except (i) such as have been made or obtained or (ii) such as cannot be made or obtained until a later date ( that any notification or authorization described in clause (ii) shall be made or obtained as soon as is reasonably practicable).
provided
 
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation (other than inchoate indemnity obligations) hereunder shall remain unpaid or
unsatisfied, the Company shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in Sections 6.01, 6.02, and 6.03) cause each Subsidiary to:
 
Section 6.01.Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders: (a) as soon as available, but in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, such consolidated statements to be audited and accompanied by a report and opinion of a Registered Public Accounting Firm of nationally recognized standing reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders, which report and opinion shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and applicable Securities Laws and shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit; and
  Financial Statements. 
 
(b)           as soon as available, but in any event within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Company's fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, such consolidated statements to be certified by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Company as fairly presenting the financial condition, results of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
 
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to Section 6.02(b), the Company shall not be separately required to furnish such information under clause (a) or (b) above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Company to furnish the information and materials described in clauses (a) and (b) above at the times specified therein.
 
Section 6.02.(a) Deliver to the Administrative Agent for distribution to each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders: (i) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in Sections 6.01(a) and (b), a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Company, that any Compliance Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 6.01(a) shall disclose the existence of any and all Material Domestic Subsidiaries as of the date of such financial statements, together with such supporting information in relation thereto as the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders may request;
  Certificates; Other Information. 
provided
 
(ii)
              
promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Company, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration
 
statements which the Company may file or be required to file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto; and
 
(iii)
                              
promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
 
(b)
                                
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to Section 6.01(a) or (b) or Section 6.02(a)(ii) (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Company posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Company's website on the Internet at the website address listed on Schedule 10.02; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Company's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent).  The Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery of or to maintain paper copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Company with any such request by a Lender for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
 
(c)
                                 
Each Borrower hereby acknowledges that (i) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of such Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on Debt Domain, IntraLinks, Syndtrak or another similar electronic system (the "") and (ii) certain of the Lenders (each, a "") who may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to any Borrower or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Person's securities.  Each Borrower hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrowers shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrowers or their respective securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in Section 10.07); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor"; and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor."  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Borrower shall be under any obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC."
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
provided, however
 
Section 6.03.Promptly after the Company obtains Actual Knowledge thereof, notify the Administrative Agent (which in turn shall notify each Lender):
  Notices. 
 
(a)
                                
of the occurrence of any Default;
 
(b)
                                
of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Company or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Company or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Company or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
 
(c)
                                 
of the occurrence of any ERISA Event that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
 
(d)
                                
of any change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Company or any Subsidiary that would reasonably be expected to result in a material change in the computation of any financial ratio set forth herein; that such disclosure may be made in conjunction with the next ensuing Compliance Certificate delivered hereunder; and
provided
 
(e)
                                 
of any announcement by Moody's or S&P of the commencement of or any change or possible change in a Debt Rating.
 
Each notice pursuant to this Section 6.03 (other than Section 6.03(e)) shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Company setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Company has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto.  Each notice pursuant to Section 6.03(a) shall describe with particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
 
Section 6.04.Pay and discharge as the same shall become due and payable, all its obligations and liabilities, including (a) all tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Company or such Subsidiary; (b) all lawful claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property; and (c) all Indebtedness, as and when due and payable, but subject to any subordination provisions contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness, unless such failure to pay or discharge such Indebtedness would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
  Payment of Obligations. 
 
Section 6.05.(a) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction permitted by Section 7.03 or 7.04; (b) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) preserve or renew all of its registered
  Preservation of Existence, Etc.
 
patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 6.06.(a) Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted; (b) make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) use the standard of care typical in the industry in the operation and maintenance of its facilities.
  Maintenance of Properties.  
 
Section 6.07.Maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Company (other than Eligible Captive Insurance Subsidiaries), insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons.
  Maintenance of Insurance. 
 
Section 6.08.Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
  Compliance with Laws. 
 
Section 6.09.(a) Maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied shall be made of all material financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be; and (b) maintain such books of record and account in material conformity with all applicable requirements of any Governmental Authority having regulatory jurisdiction over the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be.
  Books and Records.  
 
Section 6.10.Permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent (or, if there exists at such time no Administrative Agent hereunder, of the Lenders) to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers, and independent public accountants, all at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably deemed necessary to carry out the purposes of this Agreement, upon reasonable advance notice to the Company; , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Company at any time during normal business hours and without advance notice.
  Inspection Rights. 
provided, however
 
Section 6.11.Use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions for general corporate purposes not in contravention of any Law or of any Loan Document and to finance non-hostile acquisitions by the Company and its Subsidiaries that are permitted hereunder.
  Use of Proceeds. 
 
Section 6.12.Maintain all authorizations, consents, approvals and licenses from, exemptions of, and filings and registrations with, each Governmental Authority of the jurisdiction in which each Foreign Obligor is organized and existing, and all approvals and consents of each other Person in such jurisdiction, in each case that are required in connection with the Loan Documents.
  Approvals and Authorizations. 
 
Section 6.13.Notify the Administrative Agent at the time that any Person becomes a Material Domestic Subsidiary, and promptly thereafter (and in any event within 30 days), cause such Person to (a) become a Subsidiary Guarantor by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of the Subsidiary Guaranty or such other document as the Administrative Agent shall deem appropriate for such purpose, and (b) deliver to the Administrative Agent documents of the types referred to in clauses (iii) and (iv) of Section 4.01(a) and favorable opinions of counsel to such Person (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to in clause (a), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
  Additional Guarantors. 
 
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation (other than inchoate indemnity obligations) hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Company shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly:
 
Section 7.01.Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
  Liens. 
 
(a)
                                
Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;
 
(b)
                                
Liens existing on the date hereof and listed on Schedule 7.01 and any renewals or extensions thereof, that (i) the property covered thereby is not changed, (ii) the amount secured or benefited thereby is not increased except as contemplated by Section 7.02(b), (iii) the direct or any contingent obligor with respect thereto is not changed, and (iv) any renewal or extension of the obligations secured or benefited thereby is permitted by Section 7.02(b);
provided
 
(c)
                                 
Liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person in accordance with GAAP;
 
(d)
                                
carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 45 days or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person;
 
(e)
                                 
pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA;
 
(f)
                                  
deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts and leases (other than Indebtedness), statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
 
(g)
                                 
easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the applicable Person;
 
(h)
                                
Liens securing judgments for the payment of money not constituting an Event of Default under Section 8.01(h);
 
(i)
                                    
banker's liens and similar Liens (including set-off rights) in respect of bank deposits not established for the purpose of securing Indebtedness;
 
(j)
                                   
Liens on any property or assets acquired, or on the property or assets of any Persons acquired, by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries after the date of this Agreement not in contravention of the terms hereof, , that (A) such Liens exist at the time such property or assets or such Persons are so acquired and (B) such Liens were not created in contemplation of such acquisitions;
provided
 
(k)
                                
Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties and in connection with the importation of goods in the ordinary course of the Company's and its Subsidiaries' businesses;
 
(l)
                                    
Liens securing Indebtedness permitted under Section 7.02(c); that (i) such Liens do not at any time encumber any property other than the property financed by such Indebtedness and (ii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed the cost or fair market value, whichever is lower, of the property being acquired on the date of acquisition;
provided
 
(m)
                            
the Lien on the Company's headquarters buildings pursuant to the Existing Synthetic Leases; and
 
(n)
                                
other Liens to secure Indebtedness other than that described above in this Section 7.01, that the sum, without duplication, of (i) the aggregate amount of the Indebtedness secured by such Liens permitted by this subsection (n) and (ii) the aggregate amount of Priority Debt permitted to be outstanding under Section 7.02(e), shall not at any time exceed an amount equal to the greater of (x) $300,000,000 and (y) 10% of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth.
provided
 
Section 7.02.Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Priority Debt, except:
  Priority Debt. 
 
(a)
                                
Indebtedness under the Loan Documents;
 
(b)
                                
Priority Debt outstanding on the date hereof and listed on Schedule 7.02 and any refinancings, refundings, renewals or extensions thereof; that the amount of such Indebtedness is not increased at the time of such refinancing, refunding, renewal, amendment or
provided
 
extension except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such refinancing;
 
(c)
                                 
Indebtedness in respect of capital leases, Synthetic Lease Obligations, purchase money obligations and other obligations, the proceeds of which are used to acquire or construct fixed or capital assets or improvements with respect thereto (within the limitations set forth in Section 7.01(l)) or any refinancings, refundings, renewals, amendments or extensions thereof; that the amount of such Indebtedness is not increased at the time of such refinancing, refunding, renewal, amendment or extension except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such refinancing;
provided
 
(d)
                                
Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted by Section 7.01(j) (within the limitations set forth in such Section) or any refinancings, refundings, renewals, amendments or extensions thereof, that the amount of such Indebtedness is not increased at the time of such refinancing, refunding, renewal, amendment or extension except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such refinancing; and
provided
 
(e)
                                 
other Priority Debt not described above in this Section 7.02, that the sum, without duplication, of (i) the aggregate amount of Priority Debt permitted by this subsection (e) and (ii) the aggregate amount of Indebtedness permitted to be secured under Section 7.01(n), shall not at any time exceed the greater of (x) $300,000,000 and (y) 10% of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth.
provided
 
Section 7.03.(a) Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, or Dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any Person, except that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom: (i) any Subsidiary may merge with (i) the Company, that the Company shall be the continuing or surviving Person, or (ii) any one or more other Subsidiaries, that when any Subsidiary Guarantor is merging with another Subsidiary, the Subsidiary Guarantor shall be the continuing or surviving Person;
  Fundamental Changes; Acquisitions. 
provided
provided
 
(ii)
                                 
any Subsidiary may Dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation, dissolution or otherwise) to the Company or to another Subsidiary; that if the transferor in such a transaction is a Subsidiary Guarantor, then the transferee must either be the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor; and
provided
 
(iii)
                              
the Company may merge with any other Person, the Company is the surviving corporation.
provided
 
(b)
                                
Enter into or consummate any Acquisitions, that the Company or its Subsidiaries may enter into or consummate Acquisitions if (i) the Acquired Entity related to any such Acquisition is not engaged in any material line of business that is not the same as or reasonably related to those lines of business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries on the date such Acquisition is consummated; (ii) the Company shall cause all Acquired Entities to
provided
 
comply with Section 6.13 (if applicable); (iii) no Default exists or would result from the consummation of such Acquisition; and (iv) other than in conjunction with an Exempt Acquisition, the Company shall provide to the Administrative Agent, no later than the date the next ensuing Compliance Certificate is required to be delivered hereunder, such financial and other information regarding the Person who is being so acquired, including historical financial statements (not exceeding the preceding four full fiscal quarter period) and a description of such Person, as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request.
 
Section 7.04.Make any Disposition or enter into any agreement to make any Disposition, except:
  Dispositions. 
 
(a)
                                
Dispositions of obsolete or worn out property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, in the ordinary course of business;
 
(b)
                                
Dispositions of inventory in the ordinary course of business;
 
(c)
                                 
Dispositions of equipment or real property to the extent that (i) such property is exchanged for credit against the purchase price of similar replacement property or (ii) the proceeds of such Disposition are reasonably promptly applied to the purchase price of such replacement property;
 
(d)
                                
Dispositions of property by the Company or any Subsidiary to the Company or to a wholly-owned Subsidiary;
 
(e)
                                 
Dispositions permitted by Section 7.03;
 
(f)
                                  
non-exclusive licenses of IP Rights in the ordinary course of business and substantially consistent with past practice for terms not exceeding five years;
 
(g)
                                 
Dispositions of Investments (including margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB) other than Dispositions prohibited by Section 7.03;
 
(h)
                                
sales or assignments of defaulted receivables to a collection agency in the ordinary course of business; and
 
(i)
                                    
other Dispositions by the Company and its Subsidiaries not otherwise permitted under this Section 7.04, that (i) no Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of, or will result after giving effect to, any such Disposition and (ii) the aggregate book value of all such Dispositions made during the term of this Agreement does not together exceed the greater of (x) $300,000,000 and (y) 20% of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth determined as of the last day of the most recent fiscal year for which financial statements have been provided hereunder;
provided
 
provided, however
, that any Disposition pursuant to clauses (a) through (i) shall be for fair market value.
Section 7.05.Declare or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, or incur any obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so if there exists or would result therefrom any Default; except as follows:
  Restricted Payments. 
 
(a)
                                
The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may pay dividends on its capital stock or other Equity Interests payable solely in such Person's own capital stock or Equity Interests;
 
(b)
                                
The Company may purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise acquire for value (together, "") its Equity Interests issued to employees of the Company or its Subsidiaries in exchange solely for other Equity Interests of the Company, provided such Repurchase shall occur pursuant to a Contractual Obligation entered into by the Company prior to and not in anticipation of any Default and approved by the Board of Directors of the Company;
Repurchase
 
(c)
                                 
Any Subsidiary of the Company may pay dividends to or repurchase its Equity Interests from the Company or another wholly owned Subsidiary; and
 
(d)
                                
The Company may Repurchase its Equity Interests from an employee of the Company or its Subsidiaries (i) in an amount equal to any taxes payable by such employee upon the exercise of options to purchase Equity Interests of the Company approved by the Board of Directors of the Company, or (ii) upon termination of such employee's employment with the Company or its Subsidiaries; the aggregate cash amount of such Repurchase, together with all other cash Repurchases by the Company under this subsection (d), shall not exceed $20,000,000 in the aggregate.
provided
 
Section 7.06.Engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto, the Company may establish and maintain an Eligible Captive Insurance Subsidiary.
  Change in Nature of Business. 
provided
 
Section 7.07.Enter into any transaction of any kind with any Affiliate of the Company, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, except (a) for agreements with officers and directors of the Company or its Subsidiaries for (x) indemnification or participation under the Company's equity plans or (y) loans to or retention or severance agreements with officers and directors of the Company or its Subsidiaries, each as approved by the Board of Directors of the Company; (b) on fair and reasonable terms substantially as favorable to the Company or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by the Company or such Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate; (c) loans to Affiliates in which the Company or its Subsidiaries have made venture capital Investments, provided the material terms thereof are fair and reasonable as compared with other, similar venture capital Investments; or (d) in connection with the provision of insurance to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries by an Eligible Captive Insurance Subsidiary as contemplated by Section 6.07.
  Transactions with Affiliates. 
 
Section 7.08.Use the proceeds of any Credit Extension (a) to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying
  Use of Proceeds. 
 
any margin stock in violation of the margin rules or (b) to finance hostile acquisitions by the Company and its Subsidiaries.
 
Section 7.09.Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter (commencing with the fiscal quarter ended December 2, 2011) to be greater than 3.00:1.00.
  Consolidated Leverage Ratio. 
 
Section 8.01.Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
  Events of Default. 
 
(a)
                                
Non-Payment
.  Any Borrower or any other Loan Party fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, and in the currency required hereunder, any amount of principal of any Loan, or (ii) within three Business Days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan, or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five Business Days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
 
(b)
                                
Specific Covenants
.  The Company fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of Section 6.01, 6.02(a), 6.03(a), 6.05, 6.10, 6.11 or 6.13 or Article 7; or
 
(c)
                                 
Other Defaults
.  Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in subsection (a) or (b) above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for 30 days; or
 
(d)
                                
Representations and Warranties
.  Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Company or any other Loan Party herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
 
(e)
                                 
Cross-Default
.  (i) The Company or any Subsidiary (A) fails to make any payment when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) in respect of any Indebtedness or Guarantee (other than Indebtedness hereunder and Indebtedness under Swap Contracts) having an aggregate principal amount (including undrawn committed or available amounts and including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) of more than the Threshold Amount, or (B) fails to observe or perform any other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness or Guarantee or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event occurs, the effect of which default or other event is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to be demanded or to become due or to be repurchased, prepaid, defeased or redeemed (automatically or otherwise), or an offer to repurchase, prepay, defease or redeem such Indebtedness to be made, prior to its stated maturity,
 
or such Guarantee to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to be demanded; or (ii) there occurs under any Swap Contract an Early Termination Date (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which the Company or any Subsidiary is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) or (B) any Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap Contract as to which the Company or any Subsidiary is an Affected Party (as so defined) and, in either event, the Swap Termination Value owed by the Company or such Subsidiary as a result thereof is greater than the Threshold Amount; or
 
(f)
                                  
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc
.  Any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
 
(g)
                                 
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
.  (i) The Company or any Subsidiary becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or
 
(h)
                                
Judgments
.  There is entered against the Company or any Subsidiary (i) one or more final judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount (as to all such judgments or orders) exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (B) there is a period of 10 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or
 
(i)
                                    
ERISA
.  (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Company under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount, or (ii) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount; or
 
(j)
                                   
Invalidity of Loan Documents
.  Any material provision of any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and
 
effect; or any Loan Party or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any material provision of any Loan Document; or any Loan Party denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any material provision of any Loan Document; or
 
(k)
                                
Change of Control
.  There occurs any Change of Control.
 
Section 8.02.If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
  Remedies Upon Event of Default. 
 
(a)
                                
declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans to be terminated, whereupon such commitments shall be terminated;
 
(b)
                                
declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers; and
 
(c)
                                 
exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it or the Lenders under the Loan Documents;
 
provided, however
, that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
 
Section 8.03.After the exercise of remedies provided for in Section 8.02 (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable as set forth in the proviso to Section 8.02), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall, subject to the provisions of Section 2.18, be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
  Application of Funds. 
 
First
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under Article 3) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
 
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal and interest) payable to the Lenders (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders (including fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of any Lender) and amounts payable under Article 3), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Third
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans, and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
 
Fourth
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them; and
Fourth
 
Last
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Company or as otherwise required by Law.
 
Section 9.01.Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, and the Lenders, and neither any Borrower nor any other Loan Party shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.  It is understood and agreed that the use of the term "agent" herein or in any other Loan Documents (or any other similar term) with reference to the Administrative Agent is not intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations arising under agency doctrine of any applicable Law. Instead such term is used as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only an administrative relationship between contracting parties.
  Appointment and Authority. 
 
Section 9.02.The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity.  Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, own securities of, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrowers or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
  Rights as a Lender. 
 
Section 9.03.  .
Exculpatory Provisions
 
(a)
                                
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents and its duties hereunder shall be administrative in nature.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
 
(i)
                                    
shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(ii)
                                 
shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and including for the avoidance of doubt any action that may be in violation of the automatic stay under any Debtor Relief Law or that may effect a forfeiture, modification or termination of property of a Defaulting Lender in violation of any Debtor Relief Law; and
provided
 
(iii)
                              
shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to any of the Borrowers or any of their respective Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
 
(b)
                                
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 10.01 and 8.02) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment.  The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent in writing by the Company or a Lender.
 
(c)
                                 
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article 4 or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
 
Section 9.04.The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person.  The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon.  In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a
  Reliance by Administrative Agent. 
Loan, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Loan.  The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Company), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
 
Section 9.05.The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub agents appointed by the Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent and any such sub agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties.  The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any sub-agents except to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction determines in a final and non appealable judgment that the Administrative Agent acted with gross negligence or willful misconduct in the selection of such sub-agents.
  Delegation of Duties. 
 
Section 9.06..
  Resignation of Administrative Agent
 
(a)
                                
The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Company.  Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Company, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States.  If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Required Lenders) (the ""), then the retiring Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above.  Whether or not a successor has been appointed, such resignation shall become effective in accordance with such notice on the Resignation Effective Date.
Resignation Effective Date
 
(b)
                                
If the Person serving as Administrative Agent is a Defaulting Lender pursuant to  of the definition thereof, the Required Lenders may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, by notice in writing to the Company and such Person remove such Person as Administrative Agent and, in consultation with the Company, appoint a successor. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Required Lenders) (the ""), then such removal shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice on the Removal Effective Date.
clause (d)
Removal Effective Date
 
(c)
                                 
With effect from the Resignation Effective Date or the Removal Effective Date (as applicable) (1) the retiring or removed Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) except for any indemnity payments or other amounts then owed to the retiring or removed Administrative
Agent, all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time, if any, as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above.  Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or removed) Administrative Agent (other than as provided in Section 3.01(g) and other than any rights to indemnity payments or other amounts owed to the retiring or removed Administrative Agent as of the Resignation Effective Date or the Removal Effective Date, as applicable), and the retiring or removed Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section).  The fees payable by the Company to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Company and such successor.  After the retiring or removed Administrative Agent's resignation or removal hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and Section 10.04 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring or removed Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring or removed Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
 
(d)
                                
Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as Swing Line Lender.  If Bank of America resigns as Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to Section 2.04(c).  Upon the appointment by the Company of a successor or Swing Line Lender hereunder (which successor shall in all cases be a Lender other than a Defaulting Lender), (i) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Swing Line Lender and (ii) the retiring Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents.
 
Section 9.07.Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement.  Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
  Non-reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders. 
 
Section 9.08.Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Bookrunners, Book Runners, Documentation Agents, Syndication Agents, or Arrangers listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent or a Lender hereunder.
  No Other Duties, Etc. 
 
Section 9.09.In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on any Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
  Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim. 
 
(a)
                                
to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under Sections 2.03(i) and (j), 2.10 and 10.04) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
 
(b)
                                
to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
 
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under Sections 2.10 and 10.04.
 
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
 
Section 9.10.The Lenders irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent, at its option and in its discretion, to release any Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty if such Person ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder.  Upon request by the Administrative Agent at any time, the Required Lenders will confirm in writing the Administrative Agent's authority to release any Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty pursuant to this Section 9.10.
  Guaranty Matters. 
 
Section 10.01.No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Company or any other Loan Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Company or the applicable Loan Party, as the case may be, and acknowledged
  Amendments, Etc. 
 
by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
provided, however
 
(a)
                                
waive any condition set forth in Section 4.01(a) without the written consent of each Lender;
 
(b)
                                
extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to Section 8.02) without the written consent of such Lender;
 
(c)
                                 
postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment or mandatory prepayment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
 
(d)
                                
reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan, or (subject to clause (iii) of the second proviso to this Section 10.01) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary (i) to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of any Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate or (ii) to amend any financial covenant hereunder (or any defined term used therein) even if the effect or potential effect of such amendment would be to reduce the rate of interest on any Loan or to reduce any fee payable hereunder;
provided, however
 
(e)
                                 
change Section 2.14 or Section 8.03 in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender;
 
(f)
                                  
amend Section 1.06 or the definition of "Alternative Currency" without the written consent of each Lender;
 
(g)
                                 
change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder without the written consent of each Lender; or
 
(h)
                                
release the Company from the Company Guaranty or all or substantially all of the value of the Subsidiary Guaranty without the written consent of each Lender; and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Swing Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Swing Line Lender under this Agreement; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (iii) any Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, (and any amendment, waiver or consent which by its terms requires the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender may be effected with the consent of the
provided further
applicable Lenders other than Defaulting Lenders), except that (x) the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender may not be increased or extended, nor shall any principal amount owed to such Lender be reduced or the final maturity thereof extended, without the consent of such Defaulting Lender and (y) any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender that by its terms affects any Defaulting Lender disproportionately adversely relative to other affected Lenders shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender.
 
Section 10.02.  .
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
 
(a)
                                
Notices Generally
.  Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
 
(i)
                                    
if to a Borrower, the Administrative Agent or the Swing Line Lender, to the address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on Schedule 10.02; and
 
(ii)
                                 
if to any other Lender, to the address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire (including, as appropriate, notices delivered solely to the Person designated by a Lender on its Administrative Questionnaire then in effect for the delivery of notices that may contain material non-public information relating to the Company).
 
Notices and other communications sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices and other communications sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient).  Notices and other communications delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
 
(b)
                                
Electronic Communications
.  Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to Article 2 if such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication.  The Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender or the Company may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.  Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-
provided
provided
mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
 
(c)
                                 
The Platform
.  THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE."  THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS.  NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM.  In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to any Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of any Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to any Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
Agent Parties
provided, however
 
(d)
                                
Change of Address, Etc
.  Each of the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, facsimile or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.  Each other Lender may change its address, facsimile or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Swing Line Lender.  In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, facsimile number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender.  Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the "Private Side Information" or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lender's compliance procedures and applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the "Public Side Information" portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
(e)
                                 
Reliance by Administrative Agent and Lenders
.  The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic or electronic Committed Loan Notices and Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof.  The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower.  All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
 
Section 10.03.No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege.  The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
  No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies; Enforcement. 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other Loan Document, the authority to enforce rights and remedies hereunder and under the other Loan Documents against the Loan Parties or any of them shall be vested exclusively in, and all actions and proceedings at law in connection with such enforcement shall be instituted and maintained exclusively by, the Administrative Agent in accordance with Section 8.02 for the benefit of all the Lenders; that the foregoing shall not prohibit (a) the Administrative Agent from exercising on its own behalf the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as Administrative Agent) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (b) the Swing Line Lender from exercising the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity Swing Line Lender) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (c) any Lender from exercising setoff rights in accordance with Section 10.08 (subject to the terms of Section 2.14), or (d) any Lender from filing proofs of claim or appearing and filing pleadings on its own behalf during the pendency of a proceeding relative to any Loan Party under any Debtor Relief Law; and , , that if at any time there is no Person acting as Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, then (i) the Required Lenders shall have the rights otherwise ascribed to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 8.02 and (ii) in addition to the matters set forth in clauses (b), (c) and (d) of the preceding proviso and subject to , any Lender may, with the consent of the Required Lenders, enforce any rights and remedies available to it and as authorized by the Required Lenders.
provided
provided
further
Section 2.14
 
Section 10.04.  .
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
 
(a)
                                
Costs and Expenses
.  The Company shall pay (i) all reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any
 
amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), and (ii) all out of pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Lender (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent or any Lender), and shall pay all fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of the Administrative Agent or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out of pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans.
 
(b)
                                
Indemnification by the Company
.  The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), and shall indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnitee from all fees and time charges and disbursements for attorneys who may be employees of any Indemnitee, incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by any Borrower or any other Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Company or any other Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Company or any other Loan Party against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Company or such other Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. Without limiting the provisions of Section 3.01(c), this Section 10.04(b) shall not apply with respect to Taxes other than any Taxes that represent losses, claims, damages, etc. arising from any non-Tax claim.
Indemnitee
provided
 
(c)
                                 
Reimbursement by Lenders
.  To the extent that the Company for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof) or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, but without affecting the Company's obligation to make such payments, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that
the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in connection with such capacity.  The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of Section 2.13(d).
provided
 
(d)
                                
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
.  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no Borrower shall assert, and hereby waives, and acknowledges that no other Person shall have, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof.  No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
 
(e)
                                 
Payments
.  All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
 
(f)
                                  
Survival
.  The agreements in this Section and the indemnity provisions of Section 10.02(e) shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent and the Swing Line Lender, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
 
Section 10.05.To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of any Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, in the applicable currency of such recovery or payment.  The obligations of the Lenders under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
  Payments Set Aside. 
 
Section 10.06.  .
Successors and Assigns
 
(a)
                                
Successors and Assigns Generally
.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that neither any Borrower nor any other Loan Party may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender, and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an Eligible Assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void).  Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
 
(b)
                                
Assignments by Lenders
.  Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this subsection (b), participations in Swing Line Loans) at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
provided
 
(i)
                                    
Minimum Amounts.
 
(A)
                              
in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
 
(B)
                              
in any case not described in subsection (b) (i) (A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Company otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single assignee (or to an assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met;
provided, however
(ii)
                                 
Proportionate Amounts
.  Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not apply to the Swing Line Lender's rights and obligations in respect of Bid Loans or Swing Line Loans;
 
(iii)
                              
Required Consents
.  No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
 
(A)
                              
the consent of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund;
 
(B)
                              
the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, and Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender; and
 
(C)
                              
the consent of the Swing Line Lender (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment.
 
(iv)
                             
Assignment and Assumption
.  The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500; , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment.  The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
provided, however
 
(v)
                                
No Assignment to Company
.  No such assignment shall be made to the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
 
(vi)
                             
No Assignment to Natural Persons
.  No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
 
(vii)
                          
No Assignment to Certain Persons
.  No such assignment shall be made to any Person that, through its Lending Offices, is not capable of lending the applicable Alternative Currencies to the relevant Borrowers (A) without the imposition of any additional Indemnified Taxes or (B) without violating applicable Laws.
 
(viii)
                       
No Assignment to Defaulting Lenders
.  No such assignment shall be made to any Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in this clause (viii).
 
(ix)
                             
Certain Additional Payments
.  In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the
parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Administrative Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Company and the Administrative Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Loans previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon) and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Loans and participations in Swing Line Loans in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable Law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
 
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 3.01, 3.04, 3.05, and 10.04 with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment; , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no assignment by a Defaulting Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
provided
 
Upon request, each Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender.  Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
 
(c)
                                 
Register
.  The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts (and stated interest) of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "").  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary.  The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrowers and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(d)
                                
Participations
.  Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, any Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person, a Defaulting Lender or the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lender's participations in Swing Line Loans) owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participant
provided
 
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to Section 10.01 that affects such Participant.  Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, each Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 3.01, 3.04 and 3.05 (subject to the requirements and limitations therein, including the requirements under Section 3.01(e) (it being understood that the documentation required under Sections 3.01(e) and 3.01(f) shall be delivered to the participating Lender)) to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section; that such Participant agrees to be subject to the provisions of Section 10.13 as if it were an assignee under subsection (b) of this Section.  Each Lender that sells a participation agrees, at the applicable Borrower's request and expense, to use reasonable efforts to cooperate with the Borrower to effectuate the provisions of Section 10.13 with respect to any Participant. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 10.08 as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.14 as though it were a Lender.  Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the Loans or other obligations under the Loan Documents (the "Participant Register"); provided that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in any commitments, loans, letters of credit or its other obligations under any Loan Document) to any Person except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such commitment, loan, letter of credit or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations.  The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Administrative Agent (in its capacity as Administrative Agent) shall have no responsibility for maintaining a Participant Register
provided
provided
 
(e)
                                 
Limitation upon Participant Rights
.  A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 3.01 or 3.04 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the
participation to such Participant is made with the Company's prior written consent.  A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 3.01 unless the Company is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrowers, to comply with Section 3.01 as though it were a Lender.
 
(f)
                                  
Certain Pledges
.  Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note(s), if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
 
(g)
                                 
Electronic Execution of Assignments
.  The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
 
(h)
                                
Resignation as Swing Line Lender after Assignment
.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time Bank of America assigns all of its Commitment and Loans pursuant to subsection (b) above, Bank of America may, upon 30 days' notice to the Company, resign as Swing Line Lender.  In the event of any such resignation as Swing Line Lender, the Company shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor Swing Line Lender hereunder; , that no failure by the Company to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of Bank of America as Swing Line Lender.  If Bank of America resigns as Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to Section 2.05(c).  Upon the appointment of a successor Swing Line Lender, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Swing Line Lender.
provided, however
 
Section 10.07.Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the
  Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality. 
exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to a Borrower and its obligations, (g) on a confidential basis to (i) with the consent of the Company, any rating agency in connection with rating the Company or its Subsidiaries or the credit facilities provided hereunder or (ii) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar agency in connection with the issuance and monitoring of CUSIP numbers or other market identifiers with respect to the credit facilities provided hereunder, (h) with the consent of the Company or (i) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Company.
 
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Company or any Subsidiary relating to the Company or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Company or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Company or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential.  Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
 
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (A) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (B) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (C) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
 
Section 10.08.If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Borrower or any other Loan Party against any and all of the obligations of such Borrower or such Loan Party now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of such Borrower or such Loan Party may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch, office or Affiliate of such Lender different from the branch, office or Affiliate holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness; , that in the event that any Defaulting Lender shall exercise any such right of setoff hereunder, (x) all amounts so set off shall be paid over immediately to the Administrative Agent for further application in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.18 and, pending such
  Right of Setoff. 
provided
payment, shall be segregated by such Defaulting Lender from its other funds and deemed held in trust for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and (y) the Defaulting Lender shall provide promptly to the Administrative Agent a statement describing in reasonable detail the Obligations owing to such Defaulting Lender as to which it exercised such right of setoff.  The rights of each Lender and its respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or its respective Affiliates may have.  Each Lender agrees to notify the Company and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
provided
 
Section 10.09.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the "").  If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Company.  In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
  Interest Rate Limitation. 
Maximum Rate
 
Section 10.10.This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract.  This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof.  Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by facsimile or other electronic imaging means (e.g. "pdf" or "tif") shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
  Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness. 
 
Section 10.11.All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof.  Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied.
  Survival of Representations and Warranties. 
 
Section 10.12.If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions.  The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.  Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this Section 10.12, if and to the extent that the enforceability of any provisions in this Agreement relating to Defaulting Lenders shall be limited by Debtor Relief Laws, as determined in good faith by the Administrative Agent or the Swing Line Lender, as applicable, then such provisions shall be deemed to be in effect only to the extent not so limited.
  Severability. 
 
Section 10.13.  .
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
 
(a)
                                
Designation of a Different Lending Office
.  If any Lender requests compensation under Section 3.04, or if any Borrower is required to pay any Indemnified Taxes or additional amounts pursuant to Section 3.01, or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to Section 3.02, then the relevant Lender shall (at the request of the Borrower) use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 3.01 or Section 3.04, as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for notice pursuant to Section 3.02, as applicable, and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any material unreimbursed cost or expense or otherwise be materially disadvantageous to such Lender.  The Borrowers hereby agree to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
 
(b)
                                
Replacement of Lenders
.  If (w) any Lender requests compensation under Section 3.04, (x) any Borrower is required to pay any Indemnified Taxes or additional amounts pursuant to Section 3.01 and, in each case, such Lender has declined or is unable to designate a different lending office in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section, (y) any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, or (z) any Lender shall refuse to consent to a waiver or amendment to, or a departure from the provisions of this Agreement or any other Loan Document which requires the consent of all Lenders or all Lenders directly affected thereby and that has been consented to by the Required Lenders, then the Company may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, Section 10.06), all of its interests, rights (other than its existing rights to payments pursuant to Sections 3.01 and 3.04) and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
provided
 
(i)
                                    
the Company shall have paid (or caused a Designated Subsidiary to pay) to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in Section 10.06(b);
 
(ii)
                                 
such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under Section 3.05) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Company or applicable Designated Subsidiary (in the case of all other amounts);
 
(iii)
                              
in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 3.04 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 3.01, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
 
(iv)
                             
such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
 
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Company to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
 
Section 10.14.  .
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
 
(a)
                                
GOVERNING LAW
.  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
(b)
                                
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
.  EACH BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN THE BOROUGH OF MANHATTAN, NEW YORK CITY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT.  EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW.  NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST ANY BORROWER OR ANY OTHER LOAN PARTY OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
 
(c)
                                 
WAIVER OF VENUE
.  EACH BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (b) OF THIS SECTION.  EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
 
(d)
                                
SERVICE OF PROCESS
.  EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN SECTION 10.02.  NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
 
Section 10.15.EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY).  EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
  Waiver of Jury Trial. 
 
Section 10.16.If any action or proceeding is filed in a court of the State of California by or against any party hereto in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (a) the court shall, and is hereby directed to, make a general reference pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 638 to a referee (who shall be a single active or retired judge) to hear and determine all of the issues in such action or proceeding (whether of fact or of law) and to report a statement of decision, that at the option of any party to such proceeding, any such issues pertaining to a "provisional remedy" as defined in California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.8 shall be heard and determined by the court, and (b) without limiting the generality of Section 10.04, and subject to the limitations set forth in Section 10.04, the Company shall be solely responsible to pay all fees and expenses of any referee appointed in such action or proceeding.
  California Judicial Reference. 
provided
 
Section 10.17.In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby, the Borrowers acknowledge and agree that (except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) below, as expressly set forth in any other engagement agreement between the Borrowers and/or any of its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent, any Arranger or any Lender, on the other hand): (i) the credit facility
  No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility. 
provided for hereunder and any related arranging or other services in connection therewith (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) are an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Borrowers and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders, on the other hand, and the Borrowers are capable of evaluating and understanding and understand and accept the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or thereof); (ii) in connection with the process leading to such transaction, the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders each are and have been acting solely as principals and are not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary, for the Borrowers or any of their Affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other Person; (iii) none of the Administrative Agent, any Arranger or any Lender assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Borrowers with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto, including with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document (irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers or the Lenders have advised or are currently advising the Borrowers or any of their Affiliates on other matters) and none of the Administrative Agent, any Arranger or any Lender has any obligation to the Borrowers or any of their Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; (iv) the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrowers and their Affiliates, and none of the Administrative Agent, any Arranger or any Lender has any obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders have not provided and will not provide any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) and the Borrowers consulted their own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent they have deemed appropriate.  The Borrowers hereby waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that they may have against the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
 
Section 10.18.Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrowers that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrowers, which information includes the name and address of each Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify such Borrower in accordance with the Act.  Each Borrower shall, promptly following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provide all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
  USA PATRIOT Act Notice. 
Act
 
Section 10.19.Time is of the essence of the Loan Documents.
  Time of the Essence. 
Section 10.20.If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or any other Loan Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.  The obligation of each Borrower in respect of any such sum due from it to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Administrative Agent or the Lender, as the case may be, of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Administrative Agent may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency.  If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent from any Borrower in the Agreement Currency, such Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Administrative Agent or the Person to whom such obligation was owing against such loss.  If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent in such currency, the Administrative Agent agrees to return the amount of any excess to such Borrower (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law).
  Judgment Currency. 
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


