FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20120514172254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(d)
 
On May14, 2012, the Board of Directors appointed Amy Banse, Frank Calderoni and Laura Desmond to our Board of Directors.  These appointments were made to fill vacancies created by an increase in the size of the Board of Directors from nine to twelve.  Each of Ms. Banse, Mr. Calderoni and Ms. Desmond (the "New Directors") will serve a term of office expiring at Adobe's 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  No changes to any committee of the Board of Directors were made at this time.
 
There is no arrangement or understanding between the New Directors, or any of them individually, and any other persons pursuant to which any of them was selected as a director.  Since the beginning of our last fiscal year through the date hereof, there have been no transactions with Adobe, and there are currently no proposed transactions with Adobe in which the amount involved exceeds $120,000 and in which any New Director had or will have a direct or indirect material interest within the meaning of Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
As non-employee directors, each of Ms. Banse, Mr. Calderoni and Ms. Desmond will receive a pro-rated annual retainer of $60,000 for each of their Board service.
 
In addition, on May 14, 2012, each of Ms. Banse, Mr. Calderoni and Ms. Desmond was granted an initial award of 13,639 restricted stock units ("RSUs").  The number of RSUs was based on such award having an aggregate value of $450,000 divided by the average closing market price of a share of Adobe's common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market over the 30 calendar days ending on the day prior to the grant date.  The award vests 50% each year on the anniversary of the grant date over a two-year period.
 
Additional information regarding Adobe's compensation programs for the members of its Board of Directors is contained in Adobe's Definitive Proxy Statement filed on March 1, 2012.
 
A copy of our press release announcing the appointments of Ms. Banse, Mr. Calderoni and Ms. Desmond to Adobe's Board is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
        
Exhibits
 
99.1
              
Press release issued on May 14, 2012, entitled "Adobe Names Three New Members to its Board of Directors"
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
Public Relations Contact
Jodi Sorensen
Adobe Systems Incorporated
408-536-2084
jsorensen@adobe.com
 
Investor Relations Contact
Mike Saviage
Adobe Systems Incorporated
408-536-4416
ir@adobe.com
 
Adobe Names Three New Members to its Board of Directors
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  May 14, 2012 
Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq: ADBE) today announced the expansion of its board of directors from nine members to 12, and the addition of three new board members, effective May 14, 2012.
 
Joining Adobe's board are:
 
                 
Amy Banse, managing director and head of funds for Comcast Ventures and senior vice president of Comcast Corporation, one of the world's leading media, entertainment and communications companies;
 
                 
Frank Calderoni, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Cisco, a worldwide leader in networking that transforms how people connect, communicate and collaborate; and
 
                 
Laura Desmond, global chief executive officer of Starcom MediaVest Group, one of the largest brand communications groups in the world.
 
"We are pleased to welcome three individuals of this caliber to our board of directors," said John Warnock and Chuck Geschke, co-chairmen of the board, Adobe. "Amy Banse, Frank Calderoni and Laura Desmond bring deep expertise in media and technology to our board, which are critical to our mission of being the category leader in digital media and digital marketing."
 
Amy Banse
 
Amy Banse serves as managing director and head of funds, Comcast Ventures and senior vice president, Comcast Corporation. Prior to this role, she was president of Comcast Interactive Media (CIM), a division of Comcast responsible for developing Comcast's online strategy and operating Comcast's digital properties, including Fandango, Xfinity.com and Xfinitytv.com. Banse joined Comcast in 1991 and spent the early part of her career at Comcast overseeing the development of Comcast's cable network portfolio. She received a bachelor of arts degree from Harvard and a juris doctor from Temple University School of Law.
 
Frank Calderoni
 
Frank Calderoni serves as executive vice president and chief financial officer at Cisco, managing the company's financial strategy and operations.  Calderoni joined Cisco in 2004 from QLogic Corporation, a storage networking company where he was senior vice president and chief financial officer. Prior to that, he was senior vice president, Finance and Administration and chief financial officer for SanDisk Corporation, a flash data storage company. Before joining SanDisk, Calderoni spent 21 years at IBM, where he became vice president and held controller responsibilities for several divisions within the company. Calderoni holds a bachelor's degree in accounting and finance from Fordham University and a master of business administration in finance from Pace University.
 
Laura Desmond
 
Laura Desmond is the global chief executive officer of Starcom MediaVest Group (SMG), a global marketing services company which is part of the Publicis Groupe.  She is also a member of the Publicis Groupe P12, an executive committee comprised of the company's top global leaders.  Prior to her appointment as global chief executive officer in 2008, Desmond was chief executive officer of SMGThe Americas from 2007 to 2008 where she managed a network spanning the United States, Canada and Latin America. She was chief executive officer of MediaVest, based in New York, from 2003 to 2007, and from 2000 to 2002 she was chief executive officer of SMG's Latin America group. In addition to Adobe, Desmond also serves on the board of directors of VivaKi, which is part of Publicis Groupe, and oversees SMG, as well as ZenithOptimedia, Digitas and Razorfish.  She holds a bachelor of business administration in marketing from the University of Iowa.
 
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
 
Adobe is changing the world through digital experiences. For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
 
###
 
2012 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Adobe and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 


