FILE:ADBE/ADBE-8K-20120319161453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On March 19, 2012, Adobe Systems Incorporated ("Adobe") issued a press release announcing its financial results for its first fiscal quarter ended March 2, 2012. A copy of this press release is furnished and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this report and the exhibit attached hereto are being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
 
The attached press release includes non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP tax rate and non-GAAP diluted net income per share, and forecasted non-GAAP diluted net income per share.
 
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. We believe that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
 
For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process, we use non-GAAP financial measures, net of the related tax impacts, which exclude: (A) stock-based and deferred compensation expenses; (B) restructuring and other charges; (C) amortization of purchased intangibles; (D) investment gains and losses; (E) income tax adjustments; and (F) the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes.  We use these non-GAAP financial measures in making operating decisions because we believe the measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and give us a better understanding of how we should invest in research and development and fund infrastructure and go-to-market strategies.  We use these measures to help us make budgeting decisions, for example, as between product development expenses and research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate our internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.
 
As described above, we exclude the following items from one or more of our non-GAAP measures:
 
A.
                                  
Stock-based and deferred compensation expenses and related tax impact. 
Stock-based compensation expense consists of charges for employee stock options, restricted stock units, performance shares and employee stock purchases in accordance with current GAAP related to stock-based compensation including expense associated with stock-based compensation related to unvested options and restricted stock units assumed in connection with our acquisitions. As we apply current stock-based compensation standards, we believe that it is useful to investors to understand the impact of the application of these standards to our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures.  Although stock-based compensation expense is calculated in accordance with current GAAP and constitutes an ongoing and recurring expense, such expense is excluded from non-GAAP results because it is not an expense that typically requires or will require cash settlement by us and because such expense is not used by us to assess the core profitability of our business operations. Deferred compensation expense consists of charges associated with movements in our liability related to our deferred compensation plan. Although deferred compensation expense constitutes an ongoing and recurring expense, such expense is excluded from non-GAAP results because it is not an expense that typically requires current cash settlement by us and because such expense is not used by us to assess the core profitability of our business operations. We further believe these measures are useful to investors in that they allow for greater transparency to certain line items in our financial statements.  In addition, excluding these items from various non-GAAP measures facilitates comparisons to our competitors' operating results.
 
B.
                                    
Restructuring and other charges and related tax impact
.  During the past several years, we have initiated certain restructuring activities in order to align our costs in connection with both our operating plans and our business strategies based on then-current economic conditions. As a result, we recognized costs related to termination benefits for former Adobe employees whose positions were eliminated, the write-down of certain assets that were no longer useful to us based on changes in our business and the consolidation of leased facilities. Restructuring and other charges are excluded from non-GAAP results because such expense is not used by us to assess the core profitability of our business operations.
 
C.
                                    
Amortization of purchased intangibles and related tax impact
.  We incur amortization of purchased intangibles in connection with our acquisitions. Purchased intangibles include (i) purchased technology, (ii) trademarks, (iii) customer contracts and relationships and (iv) other intangibles. We expect to amortize for accounting purposes the fair value of the purchased intangibles based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible assets will be consumed as revenue is generated. Although the intangible assets generate revenue for us, we exclude this item because this expense is non-cash in nature and because we believe the non-GAAP financial measures excluding this item provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance, liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development and fund acquisitions and capital expenditures. In addition, excluding this item from various non-GAAP measures facilitates our internal comparisons to our historical operating results and comparisons to our competitors' operating results. We exclude these items because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing operating results in the current period.
 
D
.
                                   
Investment gains and losses and related tax impact
.  We incur investment gains and losses principally from realized gains or losses from the sale and exchange of marketable equity investments, other-than-temporary declines in the value of marketable and non-marketable equity securities, unrealized holding gains and losses associated with our deferred compensation plan assets (classified as trading securities) and gains and losses on the sale of equity securities held indirectly through investment partnerships. We do not actively trade publicly held securities nor do we rely on these securities positions for funding our ongoing operations.  We exclude gains and losses and the related tax impact on these equity securities because these items are unrelated to our ongoing business and operating results.
 
E.
                                     
Income tax adjustments
.  Other income tax adjustments related to one-time tax charges in connection with certain acquisitions and
prior year items such as a one-time tax benefit due to the retroactive reinstatement of the Federal Research and Development tax credit which was retroactively extended to January 1, 2010. We exclude these adjustments because these items are not used by us to assess the core profitability of our business operations.
 
F.
                                     
Income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes
. Excluding the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes assists investors in understanding the tax provision associated with those adjustments and the effective tax rate related to our ongoing operations.
 
We believe that non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our financial results in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures and that is why we qualify the use of non-GAAP financial information in a statement when non-GAAP information is presented.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
        
Exhibits
 
99.1
              
Press release issued on March 19, 2012 entitled "Adobe Reports Q1 FY2012 Financial Results"
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Public Relations Contact
 
Jodi Sorensen
Adobe Systems Incorporated
408-536-2084
jsorensen@adobe.com
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Adobe Reports Q1 FY2012 Financial Results
 
SAN JOSE, Calif.  Mar. 19, 2012
Adobe Systems Incorporated (Nasdaq:ADBE) today reported financial results for its first quarter of fiscal year 2012 ended March 2, 2012.
 
First Quarter Financial Highlights
 
                 
Revenue in Q1 FY2012 was $1.045 billion, which included $9.6 million of revenue from the acquisition of Efficient Frontier which closed in January 2012.
 
                 
Diluted earnings per share were $0.37 on a GAAP-basis, and $0.57 on a non-GAAP basis.
 
                 
Operating income was $289.0 million and net income was $185.2 million on a GAAP-basis.  Operating income was $386.7 million and net income was $284.5 million on a non-GAAP basis.
 
                 
Deferred revenue grew by $17.3 million quarter-over-quarter to a total of $549.0 million.
 
                 
Cash flow from operations was $314.4 million.
 
A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results is provided at the end of this press release.
 
Executive Quotes
 
"Our strategy is to be the leader in Digital Media and Digital Marketing.  With the upcoming release of our Creative Suite and Creative Cloud offerings, and with the momentum we have in Digital Marketing, we remain confident about our ability to drive strong revenue and earnings growth," said Shantanu Narayen, president and CEO of Adobe.
 
"We delivered solid earnings in Q1, achieved revenue within our targeted range and began to build excitement for our upcoming creative product release," said Mark Garrett, executive vice president and CFO of Adobe.  "We are raising our fiscal year revenue and non-GAAP earnings growth targets due to the addition of Efficient Frontier."
 
 
Financial Outlook
 
For the second quarter of fiscal 2012, Adobe is targeting revenue of $1.090 billion to $1.140 billion.  On a diluted earnings per share basis, the company is targeting a range of $0.37 to $0.43 on a GAAP basis, and $0.57 to $0.61 on a non-GAAP basis.
 
Adobe is targeting its Q2 share count to be between 502 million and 504 million shares, and it is targeting non-operating expense between $19 million and $21 million.  Adobe's tax rate is expected to be approximately 23.5 percent on a GAAP basis and 22.5 percent on a non-GAAP basis.
 
For fiscal year 2012, Adobe adjusted its annual financial targets due to the acquisition of Efficient Frontier.  The company increased its annual revenue growth target to a range of six to eight percent, versus its prior target range of four to six percent.  Adobe also adjusted its diluted earnings per share target range to $1.63 to $1.73 on a GAAP basis, and $2.38 to $2.48 on a non-GAAP basis.
 
A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP financial targets is provided at the end of this press release.
 
Forward-Looking Statements Disclosure
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including those related to revenue, non-operating expense, tax rate, share count, earnings per share and the success of upcoming product releases, which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: failure to develop, market and distribute new products and services or upgrades or enhancements to existing products and services that meet customer requirements, introduction of new products, services and business models by existing and new competitors, failure to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, including our increased emphasis on a cloud strategy, fluctuations in subscription renewal or upgrade rates, continued uncertainty in economic conditions and the financial markets and other adverse changes in general political or economic conditions in any of the major countries in which Adobe does business, difficulty in predicting revenue from new businesses, failure to realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and difficulty in integrating such acquisitions, costs related to intellectual property acquisitions, disputes and litigation, inability to protect Adobe's intellectual property from third-party infringers, or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure, increasing regulatory focus on privacy issues, security vulnerabilities in our products and systems, interruptions or delays in our service or service from third-party service providers that host or deliver services, security or privacy breaches, or failure in data collection, failure to manage Adobe's sales and distribution channels and third-party customer service and technical support providers effectively, disruption of Adobe's business due to catastrophic events, risks associated with global operations, Adobe's ability to comply with new laws and regulations globally, and costs associated with such compliance, currency fluctuations, risks associated with our debt service obligations, changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles, impairment of Adobe's goodwill or amortizable intangible assets, changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations, Adobe's inability to attract and retain key personnel, and impairment of Adobe's investment portfolio due to deterioration of the capital markets. For further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, individuals should refer to Adobe's SEC filings.
 
The financial information set forth in this press release reflects estimates based on information available at this time.  These amounts could differ from actual reported amounts stated in Adobe's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for our quarter ended March 2, 2012, which Adobe expects to file later in March 2012. Adobe does not undertake an obligation to update forward-looking statements.
 
About Adobe Systems Incorporated
Adobe is changing the world through digital experiences. For more information, visit www.adobe.com.
 2012 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved.  Adobe and the Adobe logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
(In thousands, except per share data; unaudited)
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands, except par value; unaudited)
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands; unaudited)
 
 
Non-GAAP Results
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
The following tables show Adobe's GAAP results reconciled to non-GAAP results included in this release.
 
 
Non-GAAP Results (continued)
(In thousands, except percentages)
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Targets
(In millions, except per share data)
 
The following tables show Adobe's second quarter and fiscal year 2012 GAAP financial targets reconciled to non-GAAP financial targets included in this release.
 
 
 
 
Adobe continues to provide all information required in accordance with GAAP, but believes evaluating its ongoing operating results may not be as useful if an investor is limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures.  Accordingly, Adobe uses non-GAAP financial information to evaluate its ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes.  Adobe's management does not itself, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Adobe presents such non-GAAP financial measures in reporting its financial results to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate Adobe's operating results in a manner that focuses on what Adobe believes to be its ongoing business operations.  Adobe's management believes it is useful for itself and investors to review, as applicable,  both GAAP information that includes the stock-based and deferred compensation expenses, restructuring and other charges, amortization of purchased intangibles, investment gains and losses and the related tax impact of all of these items, income tax adjustments, the income tax effect of the non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments from the provision for income taxes, and the non-GAAP measures that exclude such information in order to assess the performance of Adobe's business and for planning and forecasting in subsequent periods.  Whenever Adobe uses such a non-GAAP financial measure, it provides a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most closely applicable GAAP financial measure.  Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure as detailed above.


