Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This activity constitutes a separate operating segment for financial reporting purposes, which is designated Other Non Regulated. EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2007, PHI had 5,131 employees, including 1,365 employed by Pepco, 916 employed by DPL, 507 employed by ACE and 1,805 employed by PHI Service Company. The balance were employed by PHIs Competitive Energy and other non regulated businesses. Approximately 2,666 employees (including 1,060 employed by Pepco, 741 employed by DPL, 363 employed by ACE, 344 employed by PHI Service Company, and 158 employed by Conectiv Energy) are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various locals of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS PHI, through its subsidiaries, is subject to regulation by various federal, regional, state, and local authorities with respect to the environmental effects of its operations, including air and water quality control, solid and hazardous waste disposal, and limitations on land use. In addition, federal and state statutes authorize governmental agencies to compel responsible parties to clean up certain abandoned or unremediated hazardous waste sites. PHIs subsidiaries may incur costs to clean up currently or formerly owned facilities or sites found to be contaminated, as well as other facilities or sites that may have been contaminated due to past disposal practices. PHIs subsidiaries currently projected capital expenditures plan for the replacement of existing or installation of new environmental control facilities that are necessary for compliance with environmental laws, rules or agency orders by its subsidiaries are $51.3 million in 2008 and $43.9 million in 2009. The actual costs of environmental compliance may be materially different from this capital expenditures plan depending on the outcome of the matters addressed below or as a result of the imposition of additional environmental requirements or new or different interpretations of existing environmental laws and regulations. The projected capital expenditures for 2008 and 2009 include $38 million and $19.2 million, respectively, of expenditures to comply with multipollutant regulations adopted by the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control (DNREC). Conectiv Energy has appealed these regulations, as described below. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources and Liquidity Capital Requirements Compliance with Delaware Multipollutant Regulations. The $57.2 million in expected expenditures in 2008 and 2009 for compliance with the multipollutant regulations is only a portion of the total capital expenditures of $79 million, which PHI currently estimates will be necessary for multipollutant regulation compliance over the long term. Air Quality Regulation The generating facilities and operations of PHIs subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the Federal Clean Air Act (CAA), which limit emissions of air pollutants, require permits for operation of facilities and impose recordkeeping and reporting requirements. 14 Sulfur Dioxide, Nitrogen Oxide, Mercury and Nickel Emissions Among other things, the acid rain provisions of the CAA regulate total sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions from affected generating units and allocate allowances to each affected unit that permit the unit to emit a specified amount of SO2. The generating facilities of PHIs subsidiaries that require SO2 allowances use allocated allowances or allowances acquired, as necessary, in the open market to satisfy applicable regulatory requirements. Also under current regulations implementing CAA standards, each of the states in which PHI subsidiaries own and operate generating units regulate nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions from generating units and allocate NOx allowances. Most of the generating units operated by PHI subsidiaries are subject to NOx emission limits. These units use allocated allowances or allowances purchased in the open market as necessary to achieve compliance with these regulations. In 2005, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued its Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), which imposes additional reductions of SO2 and NOx emissions from electric generating units in 28 eastern states and the District of Columbia, including each of the states in which PHI subsidiaries own and operate generating units. CAIR uses an allowance system to cap state wide emissions of SO2 and NOx in two stages beginning in 2009 for NOx and 2010 for SO2. States may implement CAIR by adopting EPAs trading program or through regulations that at a minimum achieve the reductions that would be achieved through implementation of EPAs program. Each state covered by CAIR may determine independently which emission sources to control and which control measures to adopt. CAIR includes model rules for multi state cap and trade programs for power plants that states may choose to adopt to meet the required emissions reductions. These regulations may require installation of pollution control devices and or fuel modifications for generating units owned by Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services. The states in which PHI subsidiaries own and operate generating units have adopted, or are in the process of adopting, regulations to implement CAIR which will require, beginning in 2009, the surrender of a NOx annual allowance for each ton of NOx emitted during the year and, beginning in 2010, will require the surrender of more than one SO2 allowance for each ton of SO2 emitted. To implement CAIR, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) in June 2007 adopted a new NOx trading program that will replace the existing NOx trading program in 2009. This new trading program will allocate NOx annual and NOx ozone season allowances to Conectiv Energys Carlls Corner, Cedar, Middle, Mickleton, Cumberland and Sherman generating units, and will operate in a manner similar to NJDEPs existing NOx trading program. Conectiv Energys Edge Moor, Christiana and Hay Road generating units in Delaware will be subject to federal CAIR for NOx and SO2. Pennsylvania is expected to promulgate CAIR regulations in 2008 that will be applicable to Conectiv Energys Bethlehem generating units and the generating units being constructed in Peach Bottom Township, Pennsylvania, known as the Delta Project. Virginia will implement CAIR by participating in EPAs cap and trade program and Conectiv Energys Tasley peaking unit will be subject to CAIR requirements. Conectiv Energys Maryland generating units are smaller than CAIRs applicability threshold and therefore are not subject to CAIR. Pepco Energy Services Benning Road generating units located in the District of Columbia will be subject to CAIR requirements. However, it is not yet certain whether the District will adopt a state implementation plan or whether the District will rely on the federal 15 program. Pepco Energy Services Buzzard Point generating units and its landfill gas generating units will not be subject to CAIR. Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services units will use NOx annual, NOx ozone season and SO2 allowances allocated or purchased in the open market as necessary to comply with CAIR. Although implementation of CAIR will increase costs for Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services units, PHI currently does not anticipate that CAIR will have a significant impact on the operation of the affected generating units. In 2005, EPA finalized its Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR), which established mercury emissions standards for new or modified sources and capped state wide emissions of mercury beginning in 2010. The regulations, which permitted states to implement CAMR by adopting EPAs market based cap and trade allowance program for coal fired utility boilers or through regulations that at a minimum achieve the reductions that would be achieved through EPAs program, were vacated by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in February 2008. In December 2004, NJDEP published final rules regulating mercury emissions from power plants and industrial facilities in New Jersey that impose standards, effective December 15, 2007, that are significantly stricter than EPAs now vacated federal CAMR for coal fired plants. Conectiv Energy has initiated a monitoring program at the Deepwater generating facility, its only coal fired generating plant in New Jersey, in order to show compliance with NJDEPs mercury regulations. On November 15, 2006, DNREC adopted regulations to require large coal fired and residual oil fired electric generating units to develop control strategies to address air quality in Delaware. These control strategies are intended to assure attainment of ambient air quality standards for ozone and fine particulate matter, address local scale fine particulate emission problems, reduce mercury emissions, satisfy the now vacated federal CAMR rule, improve visibility and help satisfy Delawares regional haze obligations. For Conectiv Energys Edge Moor coal fired units, these multipollutant regulations establish stringent short term emission limits for emissions of NOx, SO2 and mercury, and for Edge Moors residual oil fired generating unit, impose more stringent sulfur in fuel limits and establish stringent short term emission limits for NOx emissions. The regulations also cap annual emissions of NOx and SO2 from Edge Moors coal fired and residual oil fired units, and mercury from Edge Moors coal fired units. Compliance with the regulations will require the installation of new pollution control equipment and or the enhancement of existing equipment, and may require the imposition of restrictions on the operation of those units. Conectiv Energy submitted a compliance plan for its facilities to DNREC in June 2007. Conectiv Energy estimates that it will cost up to $80 million to install the control equipment necessary to comply with the regulations. These estimated costs do not include increased costs associated with operating control equipment. In December 2006, Conectiv Energy filed a complaint with the Delaware Superior Court seeking review of DNRECs adoption of the regulations. The appeal is pending. In a March 2005 rulemaking, EPA removed coal and oil fired units from the list of source categories requiring Maximum Achievable Control Technology for hazardous air pollutants such as mercury and nickel under CAA Section 112, thus, for the time being, eliminating the possibility that control devices would be required under this section of the CAA to reduce nickel emissions from the oil fired unit at Conectiv Energys Edge Moor generating 16 facility. In the decision issued on February 8, 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit determined that the delisting of coal and oil fired units from regulation under CAA Section 112 was unlawful. Carbon Dioxide Emissions Delaware, Maryland and New Jersey (along with Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont and New York) are signatories to the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI). Under RGGI, each of the participating states has committed to the adoption of legislation or regulations designed to stabilize and eventually reduce emissions of carbon dioxide CO2 emissions, including the implementation of a regional CO2 budget and allowance trading program to regulate emissions from fossil fuel fired power plants. The regulations implementing this program are expected to require fossil fuel fired electric generating units commencing in 2009 to hold CO2 allowances equivalent to their historic baseline CO2 emissions and to reduce CO2 emissions incrementally beginning in 2015 to achieve an overall 10% reduction from baseline by 2019. Each state is permitted to adopt its own regulations and can develop its own allowance allocation/auction mechanisms. Until Delaware, Maryland and New Jersey adopt regulations, PHI will not be in a position to determine whether the allowances allocated to the generating facilities operated by its subsidiaries will be sufficient to cover the CO2 emissions from those facilities, the financial impact of acquiring allowances through auction, or the potential financial and operational consequences of the regulations. In February 2007, the New Jersey Governor signed an Executive Order which requires New Jersey to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, and to 80% below 2006 levels by 2050. The Executive Order requires NJDEP to coordinate with NJBPU, New Jerseys Department of Transportation, New Jerseys Department of Community Affairs and other interested parties to evaluate policies and measures that will enable New Jersey to achieve the greenhouse gas emissions reduction levels set forth in the Executive Order. In July 2007, New Jersey enacted legislation requiring NJDEP to promulgate regulations by July 1, 2009 that establish a greenhouse gas emissions monitoring and reporting program to evaluate progress toward the 2020 and 2050 greenhouse gas limits. In January 2008, New Jersey enacted legislation requiring the NJDEP to develop regulations for a trading program for CO2 allowances to be created under RGGI. Regulatory actions in Delaware and Maryland implementing CO2 regulations are expected in 2008. Water Quality Regulation Provisions of the federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act (CWA), establish the basic legal structure for regulating the discharge of pollutants from point sources to surface waters of the United States. Among other things, the CWA requires that any person wishing to discharge pollutants from a point source (generally a confined, discrete conveyance such as a pipe) obtain a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued by EPA or by a state agency under a federally authorized state program. All of the steam generating facilities operated by PHIs subsidiaries have NPDES permits authorizing their pollutant discharges which are subject to periodic renewal. In July 2004, EPA issued final regulations under Section 316(b) of the CWA that are intended to minimize potential adverse environmental impacts from power plant cooling water intake structures on aquatic resources by establishing performance based standards for the 17 operation of these structures at large existing electric generating plants, including Conectiv Energys Deepwater and Edge Moor generating facilities. These regulations may require changes to cooling water intake structures as part of the NPDES permit renewal process. In January 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued a decision in Riverkeeper, Inc. v. United States Environmental Protection Agency (commonly known as the Riverkeeper II decision), that remanded to EPA for additional rulemaking substantial portions of these regulations for large existing electric generating plants. EPA has not yet initiated the additional rulemaking. Petitions for review of the Riverkeeper II decision have been filed with the U.S. Supreme Court by various interested parties. The Supreme Court has not yet determined whether it will hear the appeal. The capital expenditures, if any, that may be needed as a consequence of these regulations will not be known until these proceedings are concluded and until each affected facility completes additional studies and addresses related permit requirements. EPA has delegated authority to administer the NPDES program to a number of state agencies including DNREC. The NPDES permit for Conectiv Energys Edge Moor generating facility expired on October 30, 2003, but has been administratively extended until DNREC issues a renewal permit. Conectiv Energy submitted a renewal application to the DNREC in April 2003. Studies required under the existing permit to determine the impact on aquatic organisms of the plants cooling water intake structures were completed in 2002. Site specific alternative technologies and operational measures have been evaluated and discussed with DNREC. DNREC, however, has not announced how it intends to address Section 316(b) requirements in the renewal NPDES permit in light of Riverkeeper II and the remand of substantial portions of the federal regulations Under the New Jersey Water Pollution Control Act, NJDEP implements regulations, administers the New Jersey Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NJPDES) program with EPA oversight, and issues and enforces NJPDES permits. In June 2007, Conectiv Energy filed a timely application for renewal of the NJPDES permit for the Deepwater generating facility. Timely filing of the application for renewal administratively extended the existing permit. The previous NJPDES permit for Deepwater required that Conectiv Energy perform several studies to determine whether or not Deepwaters cooling water intake structures satisfy applicable requirements for protection of the environment. While those study requirements were consistent with requirements under EPAs regulations implementing CWA Section 316(b), the result of the Riverkeeper II decision may require reevaluation of the design and operational measures that Conectiv Energy anticipated using for future compliance with Section 316(b) at Deepwater. In view of the uncertainty associated with Riverkeeper II, Conectiv Energy asked NJDEP to modify or stay a cooling water intake structure design upgrade requirement in Deepwaters NJPDES permit, and NJDEP agreed to stay that permit requirement. Pepco and a subsidiary of Pepco Energy Services discharge water from a steam generating plant and service center located in the District of Columbia under a NPDES permit issued by EPA in November 2000. Pepco filed a petition with EPAs Environmental Appeals Board seeking review and reconsideration of certain provisions of EPAs permit determination. In May 2001, Pepco and EPA reached a settlement on Pepcos petition, under which EPA withdrew certain contested provisions and agreed to issue a revised draft permit for public comment. EPA has not yet issued the revised draft permit. A timely renewal application was filed in May 2005 and the companies are operating under the November 2000 permit, excluding the withdrawn conditions, in accordance with the settlement agreement. 18 On November 5, 2007, NJDEP adopted amendments to its regulations under the Flood Hazard Area Control Act (FHACA) to minimize damage to life and property from flooding caused by development in flood plains. The amended regulations impose a new regulatory program to mitigate flooding and related environmental impacts from a broad range of construction and development activities, including electric utility transmission and distribution construction that was previously unregulated under the FHACA and that is otherwise regulated under a number of other state and federal programs. ACE is evaluating whether to appeal the adoption of these regulations to the Appellate Division of the Superior Court of New Jersey. PHI cannot predict at this time the costs of complying with the FHACA regulations due, among other things, to the possibility that NJDEP will issue exemptions from the new regulations. In September 2007, NJDEP proposed amendments to the agencys regulations under the Freshwater Wetlands Protection Act (FWPA). PHI believes that these proposed amendments may hinder development of electric transmission and distribution systems by increasing the regulatory obstacles necessary to site public service infrastructure. On December 31, 2007, ACE filed comments concerning the proposed amendments, urging NJDEP not to change the manner in which the FWPA regulations presently apply to utility lines, poles, and other utility property. An accurate estimate of PHIs compliance costs is not feasible until the regulations are adopted. In 2002, EPA amended its oil pollution prevention regulations to require facilities, that because of their location could reasonably be expected to discharge oil in quantities that may be harmful to the environment, to amend and implement Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure (SPCC) Plans and Facility Response Plans (FRPs) by February 2003. Since 2002, EPA has provided a number of extensions to the compliance deadline. As a result of those extensions, PHI facilities subject to the regulations must now comply with these regulatory requirements by July 1, 2009. PHI has undertaken an analysis of its facilities to identify equipment/sites for which physical modifications are necessary to reduce the risk of a release of oil and comply with EPAs SPCC and FRP regulations. Physical modification of facilities through the construction of containment structures or replacement of oil filled equipment with non oil filled equipment is scheduled from 2008 through 2010 with an anticipated cost of approximately $56 million. Hazardous Substance Regulation The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), authorizes EPA, and comparable state laws authorize state environmental authorities, to issue orders and bring enforcement actions to compel responsible parties to investigate and take remedial actions at any site that is determined to present an actual or potential threat to human health or the environment because of an actual or threatened release of one or more hazardous substances. Parties that generated or transported hazardous substances to such sites, as well as the owners and operators of such sites, may be deemed liable under CERCLA or comparable state laws. Pepco, DPL and ACE each has been named by EPA or a state environmental agency as a potentially responsible party at certain contaminated sites. See Note (12), Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings Environmental Litigation to the consolidated financial statements of PHI included in Item 8. In addition, DPL and ACE have undertaken efforts to remediate currently or formerly owned facilities found to be contaminated, including two former manufactured gas plant sites and other owned property. See Note (12), Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings Environmental Litigation to the consolidated financial statements of PHI included in Item 8 and Item 7 Managements 19 Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources and Liquidity Capital Requirements Environmental Remediation Obligations. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The businesses of PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the events or conditions identified below. The occurrence of one or more of these events or conditions could have an adverse effect on the business of any one or more of the companies, including, depending on the circumstances, its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unless otherwise noted, each risk factor set forth below applies to each of PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE. PHI and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation, and unfavorable regulatory treatment could have a negative effect. PHIs Power Delivery businesses are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly affects their operations. Each of Pepco, DPL and ACE is regulated by state regulatory agencies in its service territories, with respect to, among other things, the rates it can charge retail customers for the supply and distribution of electricity (and additionally for DPL the supply and distribution of natural gas). In addition, the rates that the companies can charge for electricity transmission are regulated by FERC, and DPLs natural gas transportation is regulated by FERC. The companies cannot change supply, distribution, or transmission rates without approval by the applicable regulatory authority. While the approved distribution and transmission rates are intended to permit the companies to recover their costs of service and earn a reasonable rate of return, the profitability of the companies is affected by the rates they are able to charge. In addition, if the costs incurred by any of the companies in operating its transmission and distribution facilities exceed the allowed amounts for costs included in the approved rates, the financial results of that company, and correspondingly, PHI, will be adversely affected. PHIs subsidiaries also are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from governmental agencies that regulate their businesses. PHI believes that each of its subsidiaries has, and each of Pepco, DPL and ACE believes it has, obtained or sought renewal of the material permits, approvals and certificates necessary for its existing operations and that its business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, none of the companies is able to predict the impact of future regulatory activities of any of these agencies on its business. Changes in or reinterpretations of existing laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, may require any one or more of PHIs subsidiaries to incur additional expenses or significant capital expenditures or to change the way it conducts its operations. Pepco may be required to make additional divestiture proceeds gain sharing payments to customers in the District of Columbia and Maryland. (PHI and Pepco only) Pepco currently is involved in regulatory proceedings in Maryland and the District of Columbia related to the sharing of the net proceeds from the sale of its generation related assets. The principal issue in the proceedings is whether Pepco should be required to share with customers the excess deferred income taxes and accumulated deferred investment tax credits associated with the sold assets and, if so, whether such sharing would violate the normalization provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and its implementing regulations. Depending on the 20 outcome of the proceedings, Pepco could be required to make additional gain sharing payments to customers and payments to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the amount of the associated accumulated deferred investment tax credits, and Pepco might be unable to use accelerated depreciation on District of Columbia and Maryland allocated or assigned property. See Item 7 PHI Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Regulatory and Other Matters Divestiture Cases for additional information. The operating results of the Power Delivery business and the Competitive Energy businesses fluctuate on a seasonal basis and can be adversely affected by changes in weather. The Power Delivery business is seasonal and weather patterns can have a material impact on their operating performance. Demand for electricity is generally higher in the summer months associated with cooling and demand for electricity and natural gas is generally higher in the winter months associated with heating as compared to other times of the year. Accordingly, each of PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE has generated less revenue and income when temperatures are warmer than normal in the winter and cooler than normal in the summer. In Maryland, however, the decoupling of distribution revenue for a given reporting period, from the amount of power delivered during the period as the result of the adoption by the MPSC of a bill stabilization adjustment mechanism for retail customers, has had the effect of eliminating changes in customer usage due to weather conditions or for other reasons as a factor having an impact on reported revenue and income. Historically, the competitive energy operations of Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services also have produced less revenue when weather conditions are milder than normal, which can negatively impact PHIs income from these operations. The Competitive Energy businesses energy management services generally are not seasonal. Facilities may not operate as planned or may require significant maintenance expenditures, which could decrease revenues or increase expenses. Operation of the Pepco, DPL and ACE transmission and distribution facilities and the Competitive Energy businesses generation facilities involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of equipment, accidents, labor disputes and performance below expected levels. Older facilities and equipment, even if maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures for additions or upgrades to keep them operating at peak efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide reliable operations. Natural disasters and weather related incidents, including tornadoes, hurricanes and snow and ice storms, also can disrupt generation, transmission and distribution delivery systems. Operation of generation, transmission and distribution facilities below expected capacity levels can reduce revenues and result in the incurrence of additional expenses that may not be recoverable from customers or through insurance, including deficiency charges imposed by PJM on generation facilities at a rate up to two times the capacity payment price which the generation facility receives. Furthermore, if the company owning the facilities is unable to perform its contractual obligations for any of these reasons, that company, and correspondingly PHI, may incur penalties or damages. 21 The transmission facilities of the Power Delivery business are interconnected with the facilities of other transmission facility owners whose actions could have a negative impact on operations. The electricity transmission facilities of Pepco, DPL and ACE are directly interconnected with the transmission facilities of contiguous utilities and, as such, are part of an interstate power transmission grid. FERC has designated a number of regional transmission organizations to coordinate the operation of portions of the interstate transmission grid. Pepco, DPL and ACE are members of the PJM RTO. In 1997, FERC approved PJM as the sole provider of transmission service in the PJM RTO region, which today consists of all or parts of Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. Pepco, DPL and ACE operate their transmission facilities under the direction and control of PJM. PJM RTO and the other regional transmission organizations have established sophisticated systems that are designed to ensure the reliability of the operation of transmission facilities and prevent the operations of one utility from having an adverse impact on the operations of the other utilities. However, the systems put in place by PJM RTO and the other regional transmission organizations may not always be adequate to prevent problems at other utilities from causing service interruptions in the transmission facilities of Pepco, DPL or ACE. If any of Pepco, DPL or ACE were to suffer such a service interruption, it could have a negative impact on it and on PHI. The cost of compliance with environmental laws, including laws relating to emissions of greenhouse gases, is significant and new environmental laws may increase expenses. The operations of PHIs subsidiaries, including Pepco, DPL and ACE, are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, spill prevention, waste management, natural resources, site remediation, and health and safety. These laws and regulations can require significant capital and other expenditures to, among other things, meet emissions standards, conduct site remediation and perform environmental monitoring. If a company fails to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond its control, such failure could result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities and the need to expend significant sums to come into compliance. In addition, PHIs subsidiaries are required to obtain and comply with a variety of environmental permits, licenses, inspections and other approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval, or if there is a failure to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be halted or subjected to additional costs. There is growing concern at the federal and state levels about CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions. As a result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be developed that will impose more stringent limitations on emissions than are currently in effect. Any of these factors could result in increased capital expenditures and or operating costs for one or more generating plants operated by PHIs Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services businesses. Until specific regulations are promulgated, the impact that any new environmental regulations, voluntary compliance guidelines, enforcement initiatives, or legislation may have on the results of operations, financial position or liquidity of PHI and its subsidiaries is not determinable. 22 PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE each continues to monitor federal and state activity related to environmental matters in order to analyze their potential operational and cost implications. New environmental laws and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, could impose more stringent limitations on the operations of PHIs subsidiaries or require them to incur significant additional costs. Current compliance strategies may not successfully address the relevant standards and interpretations of the future. Failure to retain and attract key skilled professional and technical employees could have an adverse effect on the operations. The ability of each of PHI and its subsidiaries, including Pepco, DPL and ACE, to implement its business strategy is dependent on its ability to recruit, retain and motivate employees. Competition for skilled employees in some areas is high and the inability to retain and attract these employees could adversely affect the companys business, operations and financial condition. PHIs Competitive Energy businesses are highly competitive. (PHI only) The unregulated energy generation, supply and marketing businesses primarily in the mid Atlantic region are characterized by intense competition at both the wholesale and retail levels. PHIs Competitive Energy businesses compete with numerous non utility generators, independent power producers, wholesale and retail energy marketers, and traditional utilities. This competition generally has the effect of reducing margins and requires a continual focus on controlling costs. PHIs Competitive Energy businesses rely on some generation, transmission, storage, and distribution assets that they do not own or control to deliver wholesale and retail electricity and natural gas and to obtain fuel for their generation facilities. (PHI only) PHIs Competitive Energy businesses depend upon electric generation and transmission facilities, natural gas pipelines, and natural gas storage facilities owned and operated by others. The operation of their generation facilities also depends upon coal, natural gas or diesel fuel supplied by others. If electric generation or transmission, natural gas pipelines, or natural gas storage are disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable, the Competitive Energy businesses ability to buy and receive and or sell and deliver wholesale and retail power and natural gas, and therefore to fulfill their contractual obligations, could be adversely affected. Similarly, if the fuel supply to one or more of their generation plants is disrupted and storage or other alternative sources of supply are not available, the Competitive Energy businesses ability to operate their generating facilities could be adversely affected. Changes in technology may adversely affect the Power Delivery business and PHIs Competitive Energy businesses. Research and development activities are ongoing to improve alternative technologies to produce electricity, including fuel cells, micro turbines and photovoltaic (solar) cells. It is possible that advances in these or other alternative technologies will reduce the costs of electricity production from these technologies, thereby making the generating facilities of PHIs Competitive Energy businesses less competitive. In addition, increased conservation efforts and advances in technology could reduce demand for electricity supply and distribution, which could 23 adversely affect the Power Delivery businesses of Pepco, DPL and ACE and PHIs Competitive Energy businesses. Changes in technology also could alter the channels through which retail electric customers buy electricity, which could adversely affect the Power Delivery businesses of Pepco, DPL and ACE. PHIs risk management procedures may not prevent losses in the operation of its Competitive Energy businesses. (PHI only) The operations of PHIs Competitive Energy businesses are conducted in accordance with sophisticated risk management systems that are designed to quantify risk. However, actual results sometimes deviate from modeled expectations. In particular, risks in PHIs energy activities are measured and monitored utilizing value at risk models to determine the effects of potential one day favorable or unfavorable price movements. These estimates are based on historical price volatility and assume a normal distribution of price changes and a 95% probability of occurrence. Consequently, if prices significantly deviate from historical prices, PHIs risk management systems, including assumptions supporting risk limits, may not protect PHI from significant losses. In addition, adverse changes in energy prices may result in economic losses in PHIs earnings and cash flows and reductions in the value of assets on its balance sheet under applicable accounting rules. The commodity hedging procedures used by PHIs Competitive Energy businesses may not protect them from significant losses caused by volatile commodity prices. (PHI only) To lower the financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, PHIs Competitive Energy businesses routinely enter into contracts to hedge the value of their assets and operations. As part of this strategy, PHIs Competitive Energy businesses utilize fixed price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts, tolling agreements, futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the over the counter markets or on exchanges. Each of these various hedge instruments can present a unique set of risks in its application to PHIs energy assets. PHI must apply judgment in determining the application and effectiveness of each hedge instrument. Changes in accounting rules, or revised interpretations to existing rules, may cause hedges to be deemed ineffective as an accounting matter. This could have material earnings implications for the period or periods in question. Conectiv Energys objective is to hedge a portion of the expected power output of its generation facilities and the costs of fuel used to operate those facilities so it is not completely exposed to energy price movements. Hedge targets are approved by PHIs Corporate Risk Management Committee and may change from time to time based on market conditions. Conectiv Energy generally establishes hedge targets annually for the next three succeeding 12 month periods. Within a given 12 month horizon, the actual hedged positioning in any month may be outside of the targeted range, even if the average for a 12 month period falls within the stated range. Management exercises judgment in determining which months present the most significant risk, or opportunity, and hedge levels are adjusted accordingly. Since energy markets can move significantly in a short period of time, hedge levels may also be adjusted to reflect revised assumptions. Such factors may include, but are not limited to, changes in projected plant output, revisions to fuel requirements, transmission constraints, prices of alternate fuels, and improving or deteriorating supply and demand conditions. In addition, short term occurrences, such as abnormal weather, operational events, or intra month commodity price volatility may also cause the actual level of hedging coverage to vary from the established hedge targets. These events can cause fluctuations in PHIs earnings from period to period. Due to the high heat rate of the Pepco Energy Services generating 24 facilities, Pepco Energy Services generally does not enter into wholesale contracts to lock in the forward value of its plants. To the extent that PHIs Competitive Energy businesses have unhedged positions or their hedging procedures do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could result in significant losses. Conversely, by engaging in hedging activities, PHI may not realize gains that otherwise could result from fluctuating commodity prices. Business operations could be adversely affected by terrorism. The threat of, or actual acts of, terrorism may affect the operations of PHI or any of its subsidiaries in unpredictable ways and may cause changes in the insurance markets, force an increase in security measures and cause disruptions of fuel supplies and markets. If any of its infrastructure facilities, such as its electric generation, fuel storage, transmission or distribution facilities, were to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of an act of terrorism, the operations of PHI, Pepco, DPL or ACE could be adversely affected. Corresponding instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism also could adversely affect the ability to raise needed capital. Insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all casualty losses that the companies might incur. PHI and its subsidiaries, including Pepco, DPL and ACE, currently have insurance coverage for their facilities and operations in amounts and with deductibles that they consider appropriate. However, there is no assurance that such insurance coverage will be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, some risks, such as weather related casualties, may not be insurable. In the case of loss or damage to property, plant or equipment, there is no assurance that the insurance proceeds, if any, received will be sufficient to cover the entire cost of replacement or repair. Revenues, profits and cash flows may be adversely affected by economic conditions. Periods of slowed economic activity generally result in decreased demand for power, particularly by industrial and large commercial customers. As a consequence, recessions or other downturns in the economy may result in decreased revenues and cash flows for the Power Delivery businesses of Pepco, DPL and ACE and PHIs Competitive Energy businesses. The IRS challenge to cross border energy sale and lease back transactions entered into by a PHI subsidiary could result in loss of prior and future tax benefits. (PHI only) PCI maintains a portfolio of cross border energy sale leaseback transactions, which as of December 31, 2007, had a book value of approximately $1.4 billion and from which PHI currently derives approximately $60 million per year in tax benefits in the form of interest and depreciation deductions. On February 11, 2005, the Treasury Department and IRS issued a notice informing taxpayers that the IRS intends to challenge the tax benefits claimed by taxpayers with respect to certain of these transactions. As part of the normal PHI tax audit for 2001 and 2002, the IRS disallowed the tax benefits claimed by PHI with respect to these leases for those years. The tax benefits claimed by PHI with respect to these leases from 2001 through December 31, 2007 were approximately $347 million. PHI has filed a protest against the IRS adjustments and the unresolved audit has been forwarded to the IRS Appeals Office. If the IRS prevails, PHI would be subject to 25 additional taxes, along with interest and possibly penalties on the additional taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on PHIs results of operations and cash flows. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Regulatory and Other Matters Federal Tax Treatment of Cross Border Leases for additional information. Changes in tax law could have a material adverse effect on the tax benefits that PHI realizes from the portfolio of cross border energy sale leaseback transactions entered into by one of its subsidiaries. In recent years, efforts have been made by members of the U.S. Senate to pass legislation that would have the effect of deferring the deduction of losses associated with leveraged lease transactions involving tax indifferent parties for taxable years beginning after the year of enactment regardless of when the transaction was entered into. These proposals, which would affect transactions such as those included in PCIs portfolio of cross border energy leases, would effectively defer the deduction of losses associated with such leveraged lease transactions until the taxable year in which the taxpayer recognized taxable income from the lease, which is typically toward the end of the lease term. To date, no such legislation has been enacted; however, there are continuing efforts by members of the U.S. Senate to add legislation to various Senate bills directed to the deferral or other curtailment of the tax benefits realized from such transactions. Enactment of legislation of this nature could result in a material delay of the income tax benefits that PHI would receive in connection with PCIs portfolio of cross border energy leases. Furthermore, if legislation of this type were enacted, under the Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff Position on Financial Accounting Standard 13 2, PHI would be required to adjust the book value of the leases and record a charge to earnings equal to the repricing impact of the deferred deductions which could result in a material adverse effect on PHIs financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. IRS Revenue Ruling 2005 53 on Mixed Service Costs could require PHI to incur additional tax and interest payments in connection with the IRS audit of this issue for the tax years 2001 through 2004 (IRS Revenue Ruling 2005 53). During 2001, Pepco, DPL and ACE changed their methods of accounting with respect to capitalizable construction costs for income tax purposes. The change allowed the companies to accelerate the deduction of certain expenses that were previously capitalized and depreciated. Through December 31, 2005, these accelerated deductions generated incremental tax cash flow benefits of approximately $205 million (consisting of $94 million for Pepco, $62 million for DPL and $49 million for ACE) for the companies, primarily attributable to their 2001 tax returns. In 2005, the Treasury Department issued proposed regulations that, if adopted in their current form, would require Pepco, DPL and ACE to change their method of accounting with respect to capitalizable construction costs for income tax purposes for future tax periods beginning in 2005. Based on the proposed regulations, PHI in its 2005 federal tax return adopted an alternative method of accounting for capitalizable construction costs that management believes will be acceptable to the IRS. At the same time as the proposed regulations were released, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 2005 53, which is intended to limit the ability of certain taxpayers to utilize the method of accounting for income tax purposes they utilized on their tax returns for 2004 and prior years 26 with respect to capitalizable construction costs. In line with this Revenue Ruling, the IRS revenue agents report for the 2001 and 2002 tax returns disallowed substantially all of the incremental tax benefits that Pepco, DPL and ACE had claimed on those returns by requiring the companies to capitalize and depreciate certain expenses rather than treat such expenses as current deductions. PHI has filed a protest against the IRS adjustments and the issue is among the unresolved audit matters relating to the 2001 and 2002 audits pending before the Appeals Office. In February 2006, PHI paid approximately $121 million of taxes to cover the amount of additional taxes and interest that management estimated to be payable for the years 2001 through 2004 based on the method of tax accounting that PHI, pursuant to the proposed regulations, adopted on its 2005 tax return. However, if the IRS is successful in requiring Pepco, DPL and ACE to capitalize and depreciate construction costs that result in a tax and interest assessment greater than managements estimate of $121 million, PHI will be required to pay additional taxes and interest only to the extent these adjustments exceed the $121 million payment made in February 2006. PHI and its subsidiaries are dependent on their ability to successfully access capital markets. An inability to access capital may adversely affect their businesses. PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE each rely on access to both short term money markets and longer term capital markets as a source of liquidity and to satisfy their capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their operations. Capital market disruptions, or a downgrade in credit ratings, would increase the cost of borrowing or could adversely affect the ability to access one or more financial markets. In addition, a reduction in PHIs credit ratings could require PHI or its subsidiaries to post additional collateral in connection with some of the Competitive Energy businesses wholesale marketing and financing activities. Disruptions to the capital markets could include, but are not limited to: recession or an economic slowdown; the bankruptcy of one or more energy companies; significant increases in the prices for oil or other fuel; a terrorist attack or threatened attacks; or a significant transmission failure. In accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and the SEC rules thereunder, PHIs management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting and is required to assess annually the effectiveness of these controls. The inability to certify the effectiveness of these controls due to the identification of one or more material weaknesses in these controls also could increase financing costs or could adversely affect the ability to access one or more financial markets. 27 Future defined benefit plan funding obligations are affected by assumptions regarding the valuation of PHIs benefit obligations and the performance of plan assets; actual experience which varies from the assumptions could result in an obligation of PHI, Pepco, DPL or ACE to make significant unplanned cash contributions to the Retirement Plan. PHI follows the guidance of SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions in accounting for pension benefits under its non contributory defined benefit plan (the PHI Retirement Plan). In addition, on December 31, 2006, PHI implemented SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) (SFAS No. 158) which requires that companies recognize a net liability or asset to report the funded status of their defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans on the balance sheet. In accordance with these accounting standards, PHI makes assumptions regarding the valuation of benefit obligations and the performance of plan assets. Changes in assumptions, such as the use of a different discount rate or expected return on plan assets, affect the calculation of projected benefit obligations (PBO), accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), reported pension liability, regulated assets, or accumulated other comprehensive income on PHIs consolidated balance sheet and on the balance sheets of Pepco, DPL and ACE, and reported annual net periodic pension benefit cost on PHIs consolidated statement of earnings and on the statements of earnings of Pepco, DPL and ACE. Use of alternative assumptions could also impact the expected future cash funding requirements of PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE for the PHI Retirement Plan if the plan did not meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). PHIs cash flow, ability to pay dividends and ability to satisfy debt obligations depend on the performance of its operating subsidiaries. PHIs unsecured obligations are effectively subordinated to the liabilities and the outstanding preferred stock of its subsidiaries. (PHI only) PHI is a holding company that conducts its operations entirely through its subsidiaries, and all of PHIs consolidated operating assets are held by its subsidiaries. Accordingly, PHIs cash flow, its ability to satisfy its obligations to creditors and its ability to pay dividends on its common stock are dependent upon the earnings of the subsidiaries and the distribution of such earnings to PHI in the form of dividends. The subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts due on any debt or equity securities issued by PHI or to make any funds available for such payment. Because the claims of the creditors of PHIs subsidiaries and the preferred stockholders of ACE are superior to PHIs entitlement to dividends, the unsecured debt and obligations of PHI are effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of its subsidiaries and to the rights of the holders of ACEs preferred stock to receive dividend payments. Energy companies are subject to adverse publicity which makes them vulnerable to negative regulatory and litigation outcomes. The energy sector has been among the sectors of the economy that have been the subject of highly publicized allegations of misconduct in recent years. In addition, many utility companies have been publicly criticized for their performance during natural disasters and 28 weather related incidents. Adverse publicity of this nature may render legislatures, regulatory authorities, and other government officials less likely to view energy companies such as PHI and its subsidiaries in a favorable light, and may cause PHI and its subsidiaries to be susceptible to adverse outcomes with respect to decisions by such bodies. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage an acquisition of PHI. (PHI only) As a Delaware corporation, PHI is subject to the business combination law set forth in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing an acquisition of PHI. Because Pepco is a wholly owned subsidiary of PHI, and each of DPL and ACE are indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of PHI, PHI can exercise substantial control over their dividend policies and businesses and operations. (Pepco, DPL and ACE only) All of the members of each of Pepcos, DPLs and ACEs board of directors, as well as many of Pepcos, DPLs and ACEs executive officers, are officers of PHI or an affiliate of PHI. Among other decisions, each of Pepcos, DPLs and ACEs board is responsible for decisions regarding payment of dividends, financing and capital raising activities, and acquisition and disposition of assets. Within the limitations of applicable law, and subject to the financial covenants under each companys respective outstanding debt instruments, each of Pepcos, DPLs and ACEs board of directors will base its decisions concerning the amount and timing of dividends, and other business decisions, on the companys respective earnings, cash flow and capital structure, but may also take into account the business plans and financial requirements of PHI and its other subsidiaries. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Pepco Holdings None. Pepco None. DPL None. ACE None. 29 Item 2. PROPERTIES Generation Facilities The following table identifies the electric generating facilities owned by PHIs subsidiaries at December 31, 2007. Electric Generating Facilities Location Owner Generating Capacity Coal Fired Units (kilowatts) Edge Moor Units 3 and 4 Wilmington, DE Conectiv Energya 260,000 Deepwater Unit 6 Pennsville, NJ Conectiv Energya 80,000 340,000 Oil Fired Units Benning Road Washington, DC Pepco Energy Servicesb 550,000 Edge Moor Unit 5 Wilmington, DE Conectiv Energya 450,000 Deepwater Unit 1 Pennsville, NJ Conectiv Energya 86,000 1,086,000 Combustion Turbines/Combined Cycle Units Hay Road Units 1 4 Wilmington, DE Conectiv Energya 552,000 Hay Road Units 5 8 Wilmington, DE Conectiv Energya 545,000 Bethlehem Units 1 8 Bethlehem, PA Conectiv Energya 1,092,000 Buzzard Point Washington, DC Pepco Energy Servicesb 240,000 Cumberland Millville, NJ Conectiv Energya 84,000 Sherman Avenue Vineland, NJ Conectiv Energya 81,000 Middle Rio Grande, NJ Conectiv Energya 77,000 Carlls Corner Upper Deerfield Twp., NJ Conectiv Energya 73,000 Cedar Cedar Run, NJ Conectiv Energya 68,000 Missouri Avenue Atlantic City, NJ Conectiv Energya 60,000 Mickleton Mickleton, NJ Conectiv Energya 59,000 Christiana Wilmington, DE Conectiv Energya 45,000 Edge Moor Unit 10 Wilmington, DE Conectiv Energya 13,000 West Marshallton, DE Conectiv Energya 15,000 Delaware City Delaware City, DE Conectiv Energya 16,000 Tasley Tasley, VA Conectiv Energya 26,000 3,046,000 Landfill Gas Fired Units Fauquier Landfill Project Fauquier County, VA Pepco Energy Servicesc 2,000 Eastern Landfill Project Baltimore County, MD Pepco Energy Servicesd 3,000 5,000 Diesel Units Crisfield Crisfield, MD Conectiv Energya 10,000 Bayview Bayview, VA Conectiv Energya 12,000 22,000 Total Electric Generating Capacity 4,499,000 a All holdings of Conectiv Energy are owned by its various subsidiaries. b These facilities are owned by a subsidiary of Pepco Energy Services. In 2007, a 16 MW combustion turbine at Buzzard Point was deactivated. c This facility is owned by Fauquier Landfill Gas, LLC, of which Pepco Energy Services holds a 75% membership interest. d This facility is owned by Eastern Landfill Gas, LLC, of which Pepco Energy Services holds a 75% membership interest. The preceding table sets forth the summer electric generating capacity of the electric generating plants owned by Pepco Holdings subsidiaries. Although the generating capacity of these facilities may be higher during the winter months, the plants operated by PHIs subsidiaries are used to meet summer peak loads that are generally higher than winter peak loads. Accordingly, the summer generating capacity more accurately reflects the operational capability of the plants. 30 Transmission and Distribution Systems On a combined basis, the electric transmission and distribution systems owned by Pepco, DPL and ACE at December 31, 2007 consisted of approximately 3,600 transmission circuit miles of overhead lines, 160 transmission circuit miles of underground cables, 22,740 distribution circuit miles of overhead lines, and 19,030 distribution circuit miles of underground cables, primarily in their respective service territories. On January 2, 2008, DPL completed the sale of substantially all of its electric business in Virginia, which included approximately 94.5 transmission circuit miles of overhead lines, .3 transmission circuit miles of underground cables, 534 distribution circuit miles of overhead lines and 291 distribution circuit miles of underground cables. See Business Power Delivery DPL in Item 1 of this Form 10 K. DPL and ACE own and operate distribution system control centers in New Castle, Delaware and Mays Landing, New Jersey, respectively. Pepco also operates a distribution system control center in Maryland. The computer equipment and systems contained in Pepcos control center are financed through a sale and leaseback transaction. DPL has a liquefied natural gas plant located in Wilmington, Delaware, with a storage capacity of 3.045 million gallons and an emergency sendout capability of 48,210 Mcf per day. DPL owns eight natural gas city gate stations at various locations in New Castle County, Delaware. These stations have a total sendout capacity of 225,000 Mcf per day. DPL also owns approximately 111 pipeline miles of natural gas transmission mains, 1,777 pipeline miles of natural gas distribution mains, and 1,292 natural gas pipeline miles of service lines. The natural gas transmission mains include 7.2 miles of pipeline of which DPL owns 10%, which is used for natural gas operations, and of which Conectiv Energy owns 90%, which is used for delivery of natural gas to electric generation facilities. Substantially all of the transmission and distribution property, plant and equipment owned by each of Pepco, DPL and ACE is subject to the liens of the respective mortgages under which the companies issue First Mortgage Bonds. See Note (7) Debt to the consolidated financial statements of PHI included in Item 8. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Pepco Holdings Other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to its and its subsidiaries business, PHI is not a party to, and its and its subsidiaries property is not subject to, any material pending legal proceedings except as described in Note (12), Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings, to the consolidated financial statements of PHI included in Item 8. Pepco Other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to its business, Pepco is not a party to, and its property is not subject to, any material pending legal proceedings except as described in Note (10), Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings, to the financial statements of Pepco included in Item 8. DPL Other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to its business, DPL is not a party to, and its property is not subject to, any material pending legal proceedings except as described in Note 31 (11), Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings, to the financial statements of DPL included in Item 8. ACE Other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to its business, ACE is not a party to, and its property is not subject to, any material pending legal proceedings except as described in Note (11), Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings, to the financial statements of ACE included in Item 8. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Pepco Holdings None. INFORMATION FOR THIS ITEM IS NOT REQUIRED FOR PEPCO, DPL, AND ACE AS THEY MEET THE CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS I(1)(a) AND (b) OF FORM 10 K AND THEREFORE ARE FILING THIS FORM WITH THE REDUCED FILING FORMAT. Part II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The New York Stock Exchange is the principal market on which Pepco Holdings common stock is traded. The following table presents the dividends declared per share on the Pepco Holdings common stock and the high and low sales prices for the common stock based on composite trading as reported by the New York Stock Exchange during each quarter in the last two fiscal years. Period Dividends Per Share Price Range High Low 2007: First Quarter $ .26 $ 29.28 $ 24.89 Second Quarter .26 30.71 26.89 Third Quarter .26 29.28 24.20 Fourth Quarter .26 30.10 25.73 $ 1.04 2006: First Quarter $ .26 $ 24.28 $ 22.15 Second Quarter .26 23.92 21.79 Third Quarter .26 25.50 22.64 Fourth Quarter .26 26.99 24.25 $ 1.04 32 See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources and Liquidity Capital Requirements Dividends for information regarding restrictions on the ability of PHI and its subsidiaries to pay dividends. At December 31, 2007, there were approximately 64,126 holders of record of Pepco Holdings common stock. Dividends On January 24, 2008, the Board of Directors declared a dividend on common stock of 27 cents per share payable March 31, 2008, to shareholders of record March 10, 2008. PHI Subsidiaries All of the common equity of Pepco, DPL and ACE is owned directly or indirectly by PHI. Pepco, DPL and ACE each customarily pays dividends on its common stock on a quarterly basis based on its earnings, cash flow and capital structure, and after taking into account the business plans and financial requirements of PHI and its other subsidiaries. Pepco All of Pepcos common stock is held by Pepco Holdings. The table below presents the aggregate amount of common stock dividends paid by Pepco to PHI during each quarter in the last two fiscal years. Period Aggregate Dividends 2007: First Quarter $ 15,000,000 Second Quarter 14,000,000 Third Quarter 45,000,000 Fourth Quarter 12,000,000 $ 86,000,000 2006: First Quarter $ 15,000,000 Second Quarter 49,000,000 Third Quarter Fourth Quarter 35,000,000 $ 99,000,000 33 DPL All of DPLs common stock is held by Conectiv. The table below presents the aggregate amount of common stock dividends paid by DPL to Conectiv during each quarter in the last two fiscal years. Period Aggregate Dividends 2007: First Quarter $ 8,000,000 Second Quarter 19,000,000 Third Quarter Fourth Quarter 12,000,000 $ 39,000,000 2006: First Quarter $ 15,000,000 Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter $ 15,000,000 ACE All of ACEs common stock is held by Conectiv. The table below presents the aggregate amount of common stock dividends paid by ACE to Conectiv during each quarter in the last two fiscal years. Period Aggregate Dividends 2007: First Quarter $ 20,000,000 Second Quarter 10,000,000 Third Quarter 20,000,000 Fourth Quarter $ 50,000,000 2006: First Quarter $ 19,000,000 Second Quarter Third Quarter 75,000,000 Fourth Quarter 15,000,000 $ 109,000,000 34 Recent Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities Pepco Holdings None. Pepco None. DPL None. ACE None. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers. Pepco Holdings None. Pepco None. DPL None. ACE None. 35 Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA PEPCO HOLDINGS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (in millions, except per share data) Consolidated Operating Results Total Operating Revenue $ 9,366.4 $ 8,362.9 $ 8,065.5 $ 7,223.1 $ 7,268.7 Total Operating Expenses 8,559.8 (a) 7,669.6 (c) 7,160.1 (e) (f) (g) 6,451.0 6,658.0 (j) (k) Operating Income 806.6 693.3 905.4 772.1 610.7 Other Expenses 284.2 282.4 (d) 285.5 341.4 433.3 (l) Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements of Subsidiaries .3 1.2 2.5 2.8 13.9 Income Before Income Tax Expense and Extraordinary Item 522.1 409.7 617.4 427.9 163.5 Income Tax Expense 187.9 (b) 161.4 255.2 (h) 167.3 (i) 62.1 Income Before Extraordinary Item 334.2 248.3 362.2 260.6 101.4 Extraordinary Item 9.0 5.9 Net Income 334.2 248.3 371.2 260.6 107.3 Redemption Premium on Preferred Stock (.6 ) (.8 ) (.1 ) .5 Earnings Available for Common Stock 333.6 247.5 371.1 261.1 107.3 Common Stock Information Basic Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Before Extraordinary Item $ 1.72 $ 1.30 $ 1.91 $ 1.48 $ .60 Basic Extraordinary Item Per Share of Common Stock .05 .03 Basic Earnings Per Share of Common Stock 1.72 1.30 1.96 1.48 .63 Diluted Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Before Extraordinary Item 1.72 1.30 1.91 1.48 .60 Diluted Extraordinary Item Per Share of Common Stock .05 .03 Diluted Earnings Per Share of Common Stock 1.72 1.30 1.96 1.48 .63 Cash Dividends Per Share of Common Stock 1.04 1.04 1.00 1.00 1.00 Year End Stock Price 29.33 26.01 22.37 21.32 19.54 Net Book Value per Common Share 20.04 18.82 18.88 17.74 17.31 Weighted Average Shares Outstanding 194.1 190.7 189.0 176.8 170.7 Other Information Investment in Property, Plant and Equipment $ 12,306.5 $ 11,819.7 $ 11,441.0 $ 11,109.4 $ 10,815.2 Net Investment in Property, Plant and Equipment 7,876.7 7,576.6 7,368.8 7,152.2 7,032.9 Total Assets 15,111.0 14,243.5 14,038.9 13,374.6 13,390.2 Capitalization Short term Debt $ 288.8 $ 349.6 $ 156.4 $ 319.7 $ 518.4 Long term Debt 4,174.8 3,768.6 4,202.9 4,362.1 4,588.9 Current Maturities of Long Term Debt and Project Funding 332.2 857.5 469.5 516.3 384.9 Transition Bonds issued by ACE Funding 433.5 464.4 494.3 523.3 551.3 Capital Lease Obligations due within one year 6.0 5.5 5.3 4.9 4.4 Capital Lease Obligations 105.4 111.1 116.6 122.1 126.8 Long Term Project Funding 20.9 23.3 25.5 65.3 68.6 Debentures issued to Financing Trust 98.0 Minority Interest 6.2 24.4 45.9 54.9 108.2 Common Shareholders Equity 4,018.4 3,612.2 3,584.1 3,339.0 2,974.1 Total Capitalization $ 9,386.2 $ 9,216.6 $ 9,100.5 $ 9,307.6 $ 9,423.6 36 (a) Includes $33.4 million ($20.0 million after tax) from settlement of Mirant bankruptcy claims. See Managements Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources and Liquidity Cash Flow Activity Proceeds from Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims. (b) Includes $19.5 million ($17.7 million net of fees) benefit related to Maryland income tax settlement. (c) Includes $18.9 million of impairment losses ($13.7 million after tax) related to certain energy services business assets. (d) Includes $12.3 million gain ($7.9 million after tax) on the sale of Conectiv Energys equity interest in a joint venture which owns a wood burning cogeneration facility. (e) Includes $68.1 million ($40.7 million after tax) gain from sale of non utility land owned by Pepco at Buzzard Point. (f) Includes $70.5 million ($42.2 million after tax) gain (net of customer sharing) from settlement of Mirant bankruptcy claims. See Managements Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources and Liquidity Cash Flow Activity Proceeds from Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims. (g) Includes $13.3 million ($8.9 million after tax) related to PCIs liquidation of a financial investment that was written off in 2001. (h) Includes $10.9 million in income tax expense related to the mixed service cost issue under IRS Revenue Ruling 2005 53. (i) Includes a $19.7 million charge related to an IRS settlement. Also includes $13.2 million tax benefit related to issuance of a local jurisdictions final consolidated tax return regulations. (j) Includes a charge of $50.1 million ($29.5 million after tax) related to a CT contract cancellation. Also includes a gain of $68.8 million ($44.7 million after tax) on the sale of the Edison Place office building. (k) Includes the unfavorable impact of $44.3 million ($26.6 million after tax) resulting from trading losses prior to the cessation of proprietary trading. (l) Includes an impairment charge of $102.6 million ($66.7 million after tax) related to prior investment in Starpower Communications, L.L.C. 37 INFORMATION FOR THIS ITEM IS NOT REQUIRED FOR PEPCO, DPL, AND ACE AS THEY MEET THE CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS I(1)(a) AND (b) OF FORM 10 K AND THEREFORE ARE FILING THIS FORM WITH THE REDUCED FILING FORMAT. Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The information required by this item is contained herein, as follows: Registrants Page No. Pepco Holdings 40 Pepco 107 DPL 117 ACE 127 38 THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK. 39 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. GENERAL OVERVIEW In 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, PHIs Power Delivery operations produced 56%, 61%, and 58% of PHIs consolidated operating revenues (including revenues from intercompany transactions) and 66%, 67%, and 74% of PHIs consolidated operating income (including income from intercompany transactions). The Power Delivery business consists primarily of the transmission, distribution and default supply of electric power, which for 2007, 2006, and 2005, was responsible for 94%, 95%, and 94%, respectively, of Power Deliverys operating revenues. The distribution of natural gas contributed 6%, 5% and 6% of Power Deliverys operating revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Power Delivery represents one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. The Power Delivery business is conducted by PHIs three utility subsidiaries: Pepco, DPL and ACE. Each of these companies is a regulated public utility in the jurisdictions that comprise its service territory. Each company is responsible for the delivery of electricity and, in the case of DPL, natural gas in its service territory, for which it is paid tariff rates established by the local public service commission. Each company also supplies electricity at regulated rates to retail customers in its service territory who do not elect to purchase electricity from a competitive energy supplier. The regulatory term for this supply service varies by jurisdiction as follows: Delaware Provider of Last Resort service (POLR) before May 1, 2006 Standard Offer Service (SOS) on and after May 1, 2006 District of Columbia SOS Maryland SOS New Jersey Basic Generation Service (BGS) Virginia Default Service In this Form 10 K, these supply service obligations are referred to generally as Default Electricity Supply. Pepco, DPL and ACE are also responsible for the transmission of wholesale electricity into and across their service territories. The rates each company is permitted to charge for the wholesale transmission of electricity are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Transmission rates are updated annually based on a FERC approved formula methodology. The profitability of the Power Delivery business depends on its ability to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on its capital investments through the rates it is permitted to charge. 40 Power Deliverys operating results are seasonal, generally producing higher revenue and income in the warmest and coldest periods of the year. Operating results also can be affected by economic conditions, energy prices and the impact of energy efficiency measures on customer usage of electricity. Effective June 16, 2007, the Maryland Public Service Commission (MPSC) approved new electric service distribution base rates for Pepco and DPL (the 2007 Maryland Rate Order). The MPSC also approved a bill stabilization adjustment mechanism (BSA) for retail customers. See Regulatory and Other Matters Rate Proceedings. For customers to which the BSA applies, Pepco and DPL recognize distribution revenue based on an approved distribution charge per customer. From a revenue recognition standpoint, the BSA thus decouples the distribution revenue recognized in a reporting period from the amount of power delivered during the period. This change in the reporting of distribution revenue has the effect of eliminating changes in customer usage (whether due to weather conditions, energy prices, energy efficiency programs or other reasons) as a factor having an impact on reported revenue. As a consequence, the only factors that will cause distribution revenue to fluctuate from period to period are changes in the number of customers and changes in the approved distribution charge per customer. The Competitive Energy business provides competitive generation, marketing and supply of electricity and gas, and related energy management services primarily in the mid Atlantic region. These operations are conducted through subsidiaries of Conectiv Energy Holding Company (collectively, Conectiv Energy) and Pepco Energy Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, Pepco Energy Services), each of which is treated as a separate operating segment for financial reporting purposes. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the operating revenues of the Competitive Energy business (including revenue from intercompany transactions) were equal to 48%, 43%, and 48%, respectively, of PHIs consolidated operating revenues, and the operating income of the Competitive Energy business (including operating income from intercompany transactions) was 26%, 20%, and 16% of PHIs consolidated operating income for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, amounts equal to 10%, 13%, and 15% respectively, of the operating revenues of the Competitive Energy business were attributable to electric energy and capacity, and natural gas sold to the Power Delivery segment. Conectiv Energy provides wholesale electric power, capacity and ancillary services in the wholesale markets and also supplies electricity to other wholesale market participants under long and short term bilateral contracts. Conectiv Energy supplies electric power to Pepco, DPL and ACE to satisfy a portion of their Default Electricity Supply load, as well as default electricity supply load shares of other utilities within PJM RTO and ISONE wholesale markets. PHI refers to these activities as Merchant Generation & Load Service. Conectiv Energy obtains the electricity required to meet its Merchant Generation & Load Service power supply obligations from its own generation plants, bilateral contract purchases from other wholesale market participants, and purchases in the wholesale market. Conectiv Energy also sells natural gas and fuel oil to very large end users and to wholesale market participants under bilateral agreements. PHI refers to these sales operations as Energy Marketing. Pepco Energy Services provides retail energy supply and energy services primarily to commercial, industrial, and governmental customers. Pepco Energy 41 Services sells electricity and natural gas to customers primarily in the mid Atlantic region. Pepco Energy Services provides energy savings performance contracting services, owns and operates two district energy systems, and designs, constructs and operates combined heat and power and central energy plants. Pepco Energy Services provides high voltage construction and maintenance services to customers throughout the U.S. and low voltage electric construction and maintenance services and streetlight asset management services in the Washington, D.C. area and owns and operates electric generating plants in Washington, D.C. Conectiv Energys primary objective is to maximize the value of its generation fleet by leveraging its operational and fuel flexibilities. Pepco Energy Services primary objective is to capture retail energy supply and service opportunities predominantly in the mid Atlantic region. The financial results of the Competitive Energy business can be significantly affected by wholesale and retail energy prices, the cost of fuel and gas to operate the Conectiv Energy plants, and the cost of purchased energy necessary to meet its power and gas supply obligations. The Competitive Energy business, like the Power Delivery business, is seasonal, and therefore weather patterns can have a material impact on operating results. Through its subsidiary Potomac Capital Investment Corporation (PCI), PHI maintains a portfolio of cross border energy sale leaseback transactions with a book value at December 31, 2007 of approximately $1.4 billion. This activity constitutes a fourth operating segment, which is designated as Other Non Regulated, for financial reporting purposes. For a discussion of PHIs cross border leasing transactions, see Regulatory and Other Matters Federal Income Tax Treatment of Cross Border Leases in this Managements Discussion and Analysis. BUSINESS STRATEGY PHIs business strategy is to remain a regional diversified energy delivery utility and competitive energy services company focused on value creation and operational excellence. The components of this strategy include: Achieving earnings growth in the Power Delivery business by focusing on infrastructure investments and constructive regulatory outcomes, while maintaining a high level of operational excellence. Supplementing PHIs utility earnings through competitive energy businesses that focus on serving the competitive wholesale and retail markets primarily in PJM RTO. Pursuing technologies and practices that promote energy efficiency, energy conservation and the reduction of green house gas emissions. In furtherance of this business strategy, PHI may from time to time examine a variety of transactions involving its existing businesses, including the entry into joint ventures or the disposition of one or more businesses, as well as possible acquisitions. PHI also may reassess or refine the components of its business strategy as it deems necessary or appropriate in response to 42 a wide variety of factors, including the requirements of its businesses, competitive conditions and regulatory requirements. EARNINGS OVERVIEW Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2006 PHIs net income for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $334.2 million, or $1.72 per share, compared to $248.3 million, or $1.30 per share, for the year ended December 31, 2006. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2007, included the credits set forth below, which are presented net of federal and state income taxes and are in millions of dollars. The operating segment that recognized the credits is also indicated. Power Delivery Mirant bankruptcy damage claims settlement $ 20.0 Maryland income tax settlement, net of fees $ 17.7 Net income for year ended December 31, 2006, included the credits (charges) set forth below, which are presented net of federal and state income taxes and are in millions of dollars. The operating segment that recognized the credits (charges) is also indicated. Conectiv Energy Gain on the disposition of assets associated with a cogeneration facility $ 7.9 Pepco Energy Services Impairment losses related to certain energy services business assets $(13.7) Excluding the items listed above for the years ended December 31, net income would have been $296.5 million, or $1.53 per share, in 2007 and $254.1 million, or $1.33 per share, in 2006. PHIs net income for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, by operating segment, is set forth in the table below (in millions of dollars): 2007 2006 Change Power Delivery $ 231.8 $ 191.3 $ 40.5 Conectiv Energy 73.0 47.1 25.9 Pepco Energy Services 38.4 20.6 17.8 Other Non Regulated 45.8 50.2 (4.4) Corp. & Other (54.8) (60.9) 6.1 Total PHI Net Income $ 334.2 $ 248.3 $ 85.9 Discussion of Operating Segment Net Income Variances: Power Deliverys $40.5 million increase in earnings is primarily due to the following: 43 $20.0 million increase due to the recovery of operating expenses and certain other costs associated with the Mirant Corporation (Mirant) bankruptcy damage claims settlement. $17.7 million increase due to the settlement of a Maryland income tax refund claim relating to the divestiture of Pepco generation assets in 2000, net of $1.8 million (after tax) in professional fees. $24.2 million increase due to the impact of the Maryland distribution base rate increases that became effective June 16, 2007 for Pepco and DPL. $27.5 million increase primarily due to higher distribution sales (favorable impact of weather compared to 2006). $28.4 million decrease due to higher operating and maintenance costs (primarily electric system maintenance, various construction project write offs related to customer requested work, employee related costs, regulatory costs and increased bad debts expense). This variance does not include the $1.8 million (after tax) in professional fees associated with the Maryland income tax refund settlement. $13.7 million decrease primarily due to favorable income tax audit adjustments in 2006. $5.8 million decrease due to lower Default Electricity Supply margins primarily as a result of customers electing to purchase electricity from competitive suppliers and the impact of the Virginia Default Electricity Supply rate cap. Conectiv Energys $25.9 million increase in earnings is primarily due to the following: $40.8 million increase in Merchant Generation & Load Service primarily due to: (i) an increase of approximately $45.3 million due to higher generation output resulting from the favorable impact of weather and improved availability at the Hay Road and Deepwater generating stations and improved spark spreads, and (ii) an increase of approximately $15.3 million due to higher capacity prices due to the implementation of the PJM Reliability Pricing Model; partially offset by (iii) a decrease of approximately $19.8 million due to less favorable natural gas fuel hedges and the expiration in 2006 of an agreement with an international investment banking firm to hedge approximately 50% of the commodity price risk of Conectiv Energys generation and Default Electricity Supply commitment to DPL (see discussion under Conectiv Energy Gross Margin below). $7.9 million decrease due to the gain on disposition of assets associated with a co generation facility in 2006. $6.4 million decrease due to higher plant maintenance costs. Pepco Energy Services $17.8 million increase in earnings is primarily due to the following: 44 $12.4 million increase due to higher impairment losses on certain energy services business assets in 2006. $2.1 million increase from its retail energy supply businesses resulting from $11.6 million increase from its retail electric business due to higher installed capacity prices, higher volumes and more favorable congestion costs in 2007; partially offset by higher gains of $8.4 million on sale of excess electricity supply in 2006, and a $1.1 million decrease from its retail natural gas business due to higher cost of supply in 2007 (see discussion under Pepco Energy Services below). Other Non Regulateds $4.4 million decrease in earnings is primarily due to tax adjustments in 2006 that related to periods prior to the acquisition of Conectiv by Pepco and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. (FIN) 48 (FIN 48) impact in 2007; partially offset by lower interest expense in 2007. Corporate and Others $6.1 million increase in earnings is primarily due to prior year tax audit adjustments (tax benefits recorded by other segments and eliminated in consolidation through Corporate and Other); partially offset by higher interest expense in 2007. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following results of operations discussion compares the year ended December 31, 2007, to the year ended December 31, 2006. All amounts in the tables (except sales and customers) are in millions. Operating Revenue A detail of the components of PHIs consolidated operating revenue is as follows: 2007 2006 Change Power Delivery $ $ 5,244.2 $ 5,118.8 $ 125.4 Conectiv Energy 2,205.6 1,964.2 241.4 Pepco Energy Services 2,309.1 1,668.9 640.2 Other Non Regulated 76.2 90.6 (14.4) Corp. & Other (468.7) (479.6) 10.9 Total Operating Revenue $ $ 9,366.4 $ 8,362.9 $ 1,003.5 45 Power Delivery The following table categorizes Power Deliverys operating revenue by type of revenue. 2007 2006 Change Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ $ 1,631.8 $ $ 1,533.2 $ $ 98.6 Default Supply Revenue 3,256.9 3,271.9 (15.0) Other Electric Revenue 64.2 58.3 5.9 Total Electric Operating Revenue 4,952.9 4,863.4 89.5 Regulated Gas Revenue 211.3 204.8 6.5 Other Gas Revenue 80.0 50.6 29.4 Total Gas Operating Revenue 291.3 255.4 35.9 Total Power Delivery Operating Revenue $ $ 5,244.2 $ $ 5,118.8 $ $ 125.4 Regulated Transmission and Distribution (T&D) Electric Revenue includes revenue from the transmission and the delivery of electricity, including the delivery of Default Electricity Supply, by PHIs utility subsidiaries to customers within their service territories at regulated rates. Default Supply Revenue is the revenue received for Default Electricity Supply. The costs related to Default Electricity Supply are included in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales. Default Supply Revenue also includes revenue from transition bond charges and other restructuring related revenues. Other Electric Revenue includes work and services performed on behalf of customers, including other utilities, which is not subject to price regulation. Work and services includes mutual assistance to other utilities, highway relocation, rentals of pole attachments, late payment fees, and collection fees. Regulated Gas Revenue consists of revenues for on system natural gas sales and the transportation of natural gas for customers by DPL within its service territories at regulated rates. Other Gas Revenue consists of DPLs off system natural gas sales and the release of excess system capacity. Electric Operating Revenue Regulated T&D Electric Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ $ 606.0 $ $ 575.7 $ $ 30.3 Commercial 731.2 699.0 32.2 Industrial 27.4 28.6 (1.2) Other 267.2 229.9 37.3 Total Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ $ 1,631.8 $ $ 1,533.2 $ $ 98.6 Other Regulated T&D Electric Revenue consists primarily of (i) transmission service revenue received by PHIs utility subsidiaries from PJM as transmission owners, (ii) revenue from the resale of energy and capacity under power purchase agreements between Pepco and 46 unaffiliated third parties in the PJM RTO market, and (iii) either (a) a positive adjustment equal to the amount by which revenue from Maryland retail distribution sales falls short of the revenue that Pepco and DPL are entitled to earn based on the distribution charge per customer approved in the 2007 Maryland Rate Order or (b) a negative adjustment equal to the amount by which revenue from such distribution sales exceeds the revenue that Pepco and DPL are entitled to earn based on the approved distribution charge per customer (a Revenue Decoupling Adjustment). Regulated T&D Electric Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential 17,946 17,139 807 Commercial 29,398 28,638 760 Industrial 3,974 4,119 (145) Total Regulated T&D Electric Sales 51,318 49,896 1,422 Regulated T&D Electric Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 1,622 1,605 17 Commercial 199 198 1 Industrial 2 2 Total Regulated T&D Electric Customers 1,823 1,805 18 The Pepco, DPL and ACE service territories are located within a corridor extending from Washington, D.C. to southern New Jersey. These service territories are economically diverse and include key industries that contribute to the regional economic base. Commercial activity in the region includes banking and other professional services, government, insurance, real estate, strip malls, casinos, stand alone construction, and tourism. Industrial activity in the region includes automotive, chemical, glass, pharmaceutical, steel manufacturing, food processing, and oil refining. Regulated T&D Electric Revenue increased by $98.6 million primarily due to the following: (i) $43.0 million increase in sales due to higher weather related sales (a 17% increase in Cooling Degree Days and a 12% increase in Heating Degree Days), (ii) $28.8 million increase in Other Regulated T&D Electric Revenue from the resale of energy and capacity purchased under the power purchase agreement between Panda Brandywine, L.P. (Panda) and Pepco (the Panda PPA), (offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales), (iii) $20.3 million increase due to a 2007 Maryland Rate Order that became effective in June 2007, which includes a positive $4.9 million Revenue Decoupling Adjustment, (iv) $12.1 million increase due to higher pass through revenue primarily resulting from tax rate increases in the District of Columbia (offset primarily in Other Taxes), (v) $5.2 million increase due to customer growth of 1% in 2007, partially offset by (vi) $10.0 million decrease due to a change in Delaware rate structure effective May 1, 2006, which shifted revenue from Regulated T&D Electric Revenue to Default Supply Revenue, and (vii) $4.0 million decrease due to a Delaware base rate reduction effective May 1, 2006. 47 Default Electricity Supply Default Supply Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ $ 1,816.4 $ $ 1,482.9 $ $ 333.5 Commercial 1,061.8 1,352.6 (290.8) Industrial 92.1 108.2 (16.1) Other 286.6 328.2 (41.6) Total Default Supply Revenue $ $ 3,256.9 $ $ 3,271.9 $ $ (15.0) Other Default Supply Revenue consists primarily of revenue from the resale of energy and capacity under non utility generating contracts between ACE and unaffiliated third parties (NUGs) in the PJM RTO market. Default Electricity Supply Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential 17,469 16,698 771 Commercial 9,910 14,799 (4,889) Industrial 914 1,379 (465) Other 131 129 2 Total Default Electricity Supply Sales 28,424 33,005 (4,581) Default Electricity Supply Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 1,585 1,575 10 Commercial 166 170 (4) Industrial 1 1 Other 2 2 Total Default Electricity Supply Customers 1,754 1,748 6 Default Supply Revenue, which is partially offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales, decreased by $15.0 million primarily due to the following: (i) $345.5 million decrease primarily due to commercial and industrial customers electing to purchase an increased amount of electricity from competitive suppliers, (ii) $94.8 million decrease due to differences in consumption among the various customer rate classes, (iii) $46.3 million decrease in wholesale energy revenue primarily the result of the sales by ACE of its Keystone and Conemaugh interests and the B.L. England generating facilities, (iv) $4.1 million decrease due to a DPL adjustment to reclassify market priced supply revenue from Regulated T&D Electric Revenue in 2006, partially offset by (v) $379.1 million increase due to annual increases in market based Default Electricity Supply rates, (vi) $86.6 million increase due to higher weather related sales (a 17% increase in Cooling Degree Days and a 12% increase in Heating Degree Days), and (vii) $10.0 million increase due to a change in Delaware rate structure effective May 1, 2006 that shifted revenue from Regulated T&D Electric Revenue to Default Supply Revenue. 48 Other Electric Revenue Other Electric Revenue increased $5.9 million to $64.2 million in 2007 from $58.3 million in 2006 primarily due to increases in revenue related to pole rentals and late payment fees. Gas Operating Revenue Regulated Gas Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 124.0 $ 116.2 $ 7.8 Commercial 72.7 73.0 (.3 ) Industrial 8.2 10.3 (2.1 ) Transportation and Other 6.4 5.3 1.1 Total Regulated Gas Revenue $ 211.3 $ 204.8 $ 6.5 Regulated Gas Sales (Bcf) 2007 2006 Change Residential 7.9 6.6 1.3 Commercial 5.2 4.6 .6 Industrial .8 .8 Transportation and Other 6.8 6.3 .5 Total Regulated Gas Sales 20.7 18.3 2.4 Regulated Gas Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 112 112 Commercial 10 9 1 Industrial Transportation and Other Total Regulated Gas Customers 122 121 1 DPLs natural gas service territory is located in New Castle County, Delaware. Several key industries contribute to the economic base as well as to growth. Commercial activity in the region includes banking and other professional services, government, insurance, real estate, strip malls, stand alone construction and tourism. Industrial activity in the region includes automotive, chemical and pharmaceutical. Regulated Gas Revenue increased by $6.5 million primarily due to (i) $11.7 million increase due to colder weather (a 15% increase in Heating Degree Days), (ii) $5.7 million increase due to base rate increases effective in November 2006 and April 2007, (iii) $4.8 million 49 increase due to differences in consumption among the various customer rate classes, (iv) $2.7 million increase due to customer growth of 1% in 2007, partially offset by (v) $18.4 million decrease due to Gas Cost Rate (GCR) decreases effective November 2006, April 2007 and November 2007 resulting from lower natural gas commodity costs (offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales). Other Gas Revenue Other Gas Revenue increased by $29.4 million to $80.0 million in 2007 from $50.6 million in 2006 primarily due to higher off system sales (partially offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales). The gas sold off system resulted from increased demand from unaffiliated third party electric generators during periods of low customer demand for natural gas. Conectiv Energy The impact of Operating Revenue changes and Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales changes with respect to the Conectiv Energy component of the Competitive Energy business are encompassed within the discussion that follows. Operating Revenues of the Conectiv Energy segment are derived primarily from the sale of electricity. The primary components of its costs of sales are fuel and purchased power. Because fuel and electricity prices tend to move in tandem, price changes in these commodities from period to period can have a significant impact on Operating Revenue and costs of sales without signifying any change in the performance of the Conectiv Energy segment. For this reason, PHI from a managerial standpoint focuses on gross margin as a measure of performance. Conectiv Energy Gross Margin Merchant Generation & Load Service consists primarily of electric power, capacity and ancillary services sales from Conectiv Energys generating plants; tolling arrangements entered into to sell energy and other products from Conectiv Energys generating plants and to purchase energy and other products from generating plants of other companies; hedges of power, capacity, fuel and load; the sale of excess fuel (primarily natural gas) and emission allowances; electric power, capacity, and ancillary services sales pursuant to competitively bid contracts entered into with affiliated and non affiliated companies to fulfill their default electricity supply obligations; and fuel switching activities made possible by the multi fuel capabilities of some of Conectiv Energys power plants. Energy Marketing activities consist primarily of wholesale natural gas and fuel oil marketing; the activities of the short term power desk, which generates margin by capturing price differences between power pools and locational and timing differences within a power pool; and prior to October 31, 2006, operating services under an agreement with an unaffiliated generating plant. Beginning in 2007, power origination activities, which primarily represent the fixed margin component of structured power transactions such as default electricity supply contracts, have been classified into Energy Marketing from Merchant Generation & Load Service. The 2006 activity has been reclassified for comparative purposes accordingly. Power origination contributed $18.8 million and $18.7 million of gross margin for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 50 December 31, 2007 2006 Operating Revenue ($ millions): Merchant Generation & Load Service $ 1,086.8 $ 1,073.2 Energy Marketing 1,118.8 891.0 Total Operating Revenue1 $ 2,205.6 $ 1,964.2 Cost of Sales ($ millions): Merchant Generation & Load Service $ 805.8 $ 861.3 Energy Marketing 1,081.0 847.7 Total Cost of Sales2 $ 1,886.8 $ 1,709.0 Gross Margin ($ millions): Merchant Generation & Load Service $ 281.0 $ 211.9 Energy Marketing 37.8 43.3 Total Gross Margin $ 318.8 $ 255.2 Generation Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses ($ millions) 3: Generation Fuel Expenses 4,5 Natural Gas6 $ 267.8 $ 174.5 Coal 62.4 53.4 Oil 33.8 26.6 Other7 2.2 4.1 Total Generation Fuel Expenses $ 366.2 $ 258.6 Purchased Power Expenses 5 479.7 431.3 Statistics: 2007 2006 Generation Output (MWh): Base Load 8 2,232,499 1,814,517 Mid Merit (Combined Cycle) 9 3,341,716 2,081,873 Mid Merit (Oil Fired) 10 190,253 115,120 Peaking 146,486 131,930 Tolled Generation 160,755 94,064 Total 6,071,709 4,237,504 Load Service Volume (MWh) 11 7,075,743 8,514,719 Average Power Sales Price 12($/MWh): Generation Sales 4 $ 82.19 $ 77.69 Non Generation Sales 13 $ 70.43 $ 58.49 Total $ 74.34 $ 62.54 Average on peak spot power price at PJM East Hub ($/MWh) 14 $ 77.85 $ 65.29 Average around the clock spot power price at PJM East Hub ($/MWh) 14 $ 63.92 $ 53.07 Average spot natural gas price at market area M3 ($/MMBtu)15 $ 7.76 $ 7.31 Weather (degree days at Philadelphia Airport): 16 Heating degree days 4,560 4,205 Cooling degree days 1,513 1,136 1 Includes $441.5 million and $471.1 million of affiliate transactions for 2007 and 2006, respectively. The 2006 amount has been reclassified to exclude $193.1 million of intra affiliate transactions that were reported gross in 2006 at the segment level. 2 Includes $6.7 million and $4.6 million of affiliate transactions for 2007 and 2006, respectively. The 2006 amount has been reclassified to exclude $193.1 million of intra affiliate transactions that were reported gross in 2006 at the segment level. Also, excludes depreciation and amortization expense of $37.7 million and $36.3 million, respectively. 3 Consists solely of Merchant Generation & Load Service expenses; does not include the cost of fuel not consumed by the power plants and intercompany tolling expenses. 4 Includes tolled generation. 5 Includes associated hedging gains and losses. 6 Includes adjusted 2006 amount related to change in natural gas hedge allocation methodology. 7 Includes emissions expenses, fuel additives, and other fuel related costs. 8 Edge Moor Units 3 and 4 and Deepwater Unit 6. 9 Hay Road and Bethlehem, all units. 10 Edge Moor Unit 5 and Deepwater Unit 1. Generation output for these units was negative for the first and fourth quarters of 2006 because of station service consumption. 11 Consists of all default electricity supply sales; does not include standard product hedge volumes. 12 Calculated from data reported in Conectiv Energys Electric Quarterly Report (EQR) filed with the FERC; does not include capacity or ancillary services revenue. 13 Consists of default electricity supply sales, standard product power sales, and spot power sales other than merchant generation as reported in Conectiv Energys EQR. 14 Source: PJM website (www.pjm.com). 15 Source: Average delivered natural gas price at Tetco Zone M3 as published in Gas Daily. 16 Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration National Weather Service data. 51 Merchant Generation & Load Service gross margin increased $69.1 million primarily due to: An increase of approximately $76.5 million primarily due to 43% higher generation output attributable to more favorable weather and improved availability at the Hay Road and Deepwater generating plants and improved spark spreads. An increase of approximately $25.9 million due to higher capacity prices due to the implementation of the PJM Reliability Pricing Model. A decrease of $33.4 million due to less favorable natural gas fuel hedges, and the expiration, in 2006, of an agreement with an international investment banking firm to hedge approximately 50% of the commodity price risk of Conectiv Energys generation and Default Electricity Supply commitment to DPL. Energy Marketing gross margin decreased $5.5 million primarily due to: A decrease of $5.2 million due to lower margins in oil marketing. A decrease of $4.0 million due to lower margins in natural gas marketing. An increase of $2.7 million for adjustments related to an unaffiliated generation operating services agreement that expired in 2006. Pepco Energy Services Pepco Energy Services operating revenue increased $640.2 million, which corresponds with the increase in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Costs of Sales, to $2,309.1 million in 2007 from $1,668.9 million in 2006 primarily due to (i) increase of $646.0 million due to higher volumes of retail electric load served at higher prices in 2007 driven by customer acquisitions , (ii) increase of $27.4 million due to higher volumes of wholesale natural gas sales in 2007 that resulted from increased natural gas supply transactions to deliver gas to retail customers, partially offset by (iii) decrease of $32.3 million due primarily to lower construction activity in 2007 and to the sale of five construction businesses in 2006. Other Non Regulated Other Non Regulated operating revenue decreased $14.4 million to $76.2 million in 2007 from $90.6 million in 2006. The operating revenue of this segment primarily consists of lease earnings recognized under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13, Accounting for Leases. The revenue decrease is primarily due to a change in state income tax lease assumptions that resulted in increased revenue in 2006 as compared to 2007. 52 Operating Expenses Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales A detail of PHIs consolidated Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales is as follows: 2007 2006 Change Power Delivery $ 3,359.7 $ 3,303.6 $ 56.1 Conectiv Energy 1,886.8 1,709.0 177.8 Pepco Energy Services 2,161.7 1,531.1 630.6 Corp. & Other (464.9 ) (477.8 ) 12.9 Total $ 6,943.3 $ 6,065.9 $ 877.4 Power Delivery Power Deliverys Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales, which is primarily associated with Default Electricity Supply sales, increased by $56.1 million primarily due to: (i) $445.2 million increase in average energy costs, the result of new annual Default Electricity Supply contracts, (ii) $93.0 million increase due to an increase in weather related sales, (iii) $28.8 million increase for energy and capacity purchased under the Panda PPA (offset in T&D Electric Revenue), partially offset by (iv) $472.2 million decrease primarily due to commercial and industrial customers electing to purchase an increased amount of electricity from competitive suppliers, and (v) $36.4 million decrease in the Default Electricity Supply deferral balance. Fuel and Purchased Energy expense is primarily offset in Default Supply Revenue, Regulated Gas Revenue or Other Gas Revenue. Conectiv Energy The impact of Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales changes with respect to the Conectiv Energy component of the Competitive Energy business are encompassed within the prior discussion under the heading Conectiv Energy Gross Margin. Pepco Energy Services Pepco Energy Services Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales increased $630.6 million primarily due to (i) an increase of $635.7 million due to higher volumes of purchased electricity at higher prices in 2007 to serve increased retail customer load (ii) an increase of $39.9 million due to higher volumes of wholesale natural gas sales in 2007 that resulted from increased natural gas supply transactions to deliver gas to retail customers, partially offset by (iii) a decrease of $44.6 million due primarily to lower construction activity in 2007 and to the sale of five construction businesses in 2006. 53 Other Operation and Maintenance A detail of PHIs other operation and maintenance expense is as follows: 2007 2006 Change Power Delivery $ 667.0 $ 639.6 $ 27.4 Conectiv Energy 127.2 116.3 10.9 Pepco Energy Services 73.6 67.6 6.0 Other Non Regulated 3.5 4.2 (.7 ) Corp. & Other (13.8 ) (20.4 ) 6.6 Total $ 857.5 $ 807.3 $ 50.2 Other Operation and Maintenance expense of the Power Delivery segment increased by $27.4 million; however, excluding the favorable variance of $34.2 million primarily resulting from ACEs sale of the B.L. England electric generating facility in February 2007, Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased by $61.6 million. The $61.6 million increase was primarily due to (i) $15.7 million increase in employee related costs, (ii) $10.6 million increase in preventative maintenance and system operation costs, (iii) $6.8 million increase in customer service operation expenses, (iv) $4.4 million increase in costs associated with Default Electricity Supply (primarily deferred and recoverable), (v) $3.5 million increase in regulatory expenses, (vi) $3.5 million increase in accounting service expenses, (vii) $3.4 million increase due to various construction project write offs related to customer requested work, (viii) $3.1 million increase in Demand Side Management program costs (offset in Deferred Electric Service Costs), and (ix) $2.8 million increase due to higher bad debt expenses. Other Operation and Maintenance expense for Conectiv Energy increased by $10.9 million primarily due to higher plant maintenance costs due to more scheduled outages in 2007 and higher costs of materials and labor. Other Operation and Maintenance expense for Pepco Energy Services increased by $6.0 million due to higher retail electric and gas operating costs to support the growth in the retail business in 2007. Other Operation and Maintenance expense for Corporate & Other increased by $6.6 million due to increased employee related costs. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and Amortization expenses decreased by $47.3 million to $365.9 million in 2007 from $413.2 million in 2006. The decrease is primarily due to (i) $31.1 million decrease in ACEs regulatory asset amortization resulting primarily from the 2006 sale of ACEs interests in Keystone and Conemaugh, and (ii) $19.1 million decrease in depreciation due to a change in depreciation rates in accordance with the 2007 Maryland Rate Order. 54 Other Taxes Other Taxes increased by $14.1 million to $357.1 million in 2007 from $343.0 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to increased pass throughs resulting from tax rate increases (partially offset in Regulated T&D Electric Revenue). Deferred Electric Service Costs Deferred Electric Service Costs, which relate only to ACE, increased by $46.0 million to $68.1 million in 2007 from $22.1 million in 2006. The increase is primarily due to (i) $37.5 million net over recovery associated with non utility generation contracts between ACE and unaffiliated third parties, (ii) $11.7 million net over recovery associated with BGS energy costs, partially offset by (iii) $3.2 million net under recovery associated with Demand Side Management program costs. Impairment Losses During 2007, Pepco Holdings recorded pre tax impairment losses of $2.0 million ($1.3 million after tax) related to certain energy services business assets owned by Pepco Energy Services. During 2006, Pepco Holdings recorded pre tax impairment losses of $18.9 million ($13.7 million after tax) related to certain energy services business assets owned by Pepco Energy Services. Effect of Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims The Effect of Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims reflects the recovery of $33.4 million in operating expenses and certain other costs as damages in the Mirant bankruptcy settlement. See Capital Resources and Liquidity Cash Flow Activity Proceeds from Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims. Income Tax Expense PHIs effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were 36.0% and 39.3%, respectively. The 3.3% decrease in the effective tax rate in 2007 was primarily the result of a 2007 Maryland state income tax refund. The refund was due to an increase in the tax basis of certain assets sold in 2000, and as a result, PHIs 2007 income tax expense was reduced by $19.5 million with a corresponding decrease to the effective tax rate of 3.7%. The following results of operations discussion compares the year ended December 31, 2006, to the year ended December 31, 2005. All amounts in the tables (except sales and customers) are in millions. Operating Revenue A detail of the components of PHIs consolidated operating revenue is as follows: 55 2006 2005 Change Power Delivery $ 5,118.8 $ 4,702.9 $ 415.9 Conectiv Energy 1,964.2 2,393.1 (428.9 ) Pepco Energy Services 1,668.9 1,487.5 181.4 Other Non Regulated 90.6 84.5 6.1 Corp. & Other (479.6 ) (602.5 ) 122.9 Total Operating Revenue $ 8,362.9 $ 8,065.5 $ 297.4 Power Delivery The following table categorizes Power Deliverys operating revenue by type of revenue. 2006 2005 Change Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 1,533.2 $ 1,623.2 $ (90.0 ) Default Supply Revenue 3,271.9 2,753.0 518.9 Other Electric Revenue 58.3 65.2 (6.9 ) Total Electric Operating Revenue 4,863.4 4,441.4 422.0 Regulated Gas Revenue 204.8 198.7 6.1 Other Gas Revenue 50.6 62.8 (12.2 ) Total Gas Operating Revenue 255.4 261.5 (6.1 ) Total Power Delivery Operating Revenue $ 5,118.8 $ 4,702.9 $ 415.9 Regulated T&D Electric Revenue includes revenue from the transmission and the delivery of electricity, including the delivery of Default Electricity Supply, by PHIs utility subsidiaries to customers within their service territories at regulated rates. Default Supply Revenue is the revenue received for Default Electricity Supply. The costs related to Default Electricity Supply are included in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales. Default Supply Revenue also includes revenue from transition bond charges and other restructuring related revenues. Other Electric Revenue includes work and services performed on behalf of customers, including other utilities, which is not subject to price regulation. Work and services includes mutual assistance to other utilities, highway relocation, rentals of pole attachments, late payment fees, and collection fees. Regulated Gas Revenue consists of revenues for on system natural gas sales and the transportation of natural gas for customers by DPL within its service territories at regulated rates. Other Gas Revenue consists of DPLs off system natural gas sales and the release of excess system capacity. 56 Electric Operating Revenue Regulated T&D Electric Revenue 2006 2005 Change Residential $ 575.7 $ 613.0 $ (37.3 ) Commercial 699.0 726.8 (27.8 ) Industrial 28.6 36.8 (8.2 ) Other 229.9 246.6 (16.7 ) Total Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 1,533.2 $ 1,623.2 $ (90.0 ) Other Regulated T&D Electric Revenue consists primarily of (i) transmission service revenue received by PHIs utility subsidiaries from PJM as transmission owners, and (ii) revenue from the resale of energy and capacity under power purchase agreements between Pepco and unaffiliated third parties in the PJM market. Regulated T&D Electric Sales (GWh) 2006 2005 Change Residential 17,139 18,045 (906) Commercial 28,638 29,441 (803) Industrial 4,119 4,288 (169) Total Regulated T&D Electric Sales 49,896 51,774 (1,878) Regulated T&D Electric Customers (in thousands) 2006 2005 Change Residential 1,605 1,591 14 Commercial 198 196 2 Industrial 2 2 Total Regulated T&D Electric Customers 1,805 1,789 16 Regulated T&D Revenue decreased by $90.0 million primarily due to the following: (i) $51.2 million decrease in sales due to weather, the result of a 16% decrease in Heating Degree Days and 12% decrease in Cooling Degree Days in 2006, (ii) $18.5 million decrease due to a change in Delaware rate structure effective May 1, 2006, which shifted revenue from Regulated T&D Electric Revenue to Default Supply Revenue, (iii) $17.1 million decrease in network transmission revenues due to lower rates approved by FERC in June 2006, (iv) $7.0 million decrease due to a Delaware base rate reduction effective May 1, 2006, primarily offset by (v) $12.9 million increase in sales due to a 0.9% increase in the number of customers. 57 Default Electricity Supply Default Supply Revenue 2006 2005 Change Residential $ 1,482.9 $ 1,161.6 $ 321.3 Commercial 1,352.6 995.4 357.2 Industrial 108.2 134.2 (26.0 ) Other 328.2 461.8 (133.6 ) Total Default Supply Revenue $ 3,271.9 $ 2,753.0 $ 518.9 Other Default Supply Revenue consists primarily of revenue from the resale of energy and capacity under non utility generating contracts between ACE and unaffiliated third parties (NUGs) in the PJM market. Default Electricity Supply Sales (GWh) 2006 2005 Change Residential 16,698 17,490 (792) Commercial 14,799 15,020 (221) Industrial 1,379 2,058 (679) Other 129 157 (28) Total Default Electricity Supply Sales 33,005 34,725 (1,720) Default Electricity Supply Customers (in thousands) 2006 2005 Change Residential 1,575 1,557 18 Commercial 170 181 (11) Industrial 1 2 (1) Other 2 2 Total Default Electricity Supply Customers 1,748 1,742 6 Default Supply Revenue, which is partially offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales, increased $518.9 million, representing an 18.8% increase despite a 5% decrease in GWh sales. This increase was primarily due to the following: (i) an increase of $709.3 million attributable to higher retail electricity rates, primarily resulting from market based rates beginning in Delaware on May 1, 2006 and annual increases in Default Electricity Supply rates during the year in the District of Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey, and Virginia, primarily offset by (ii) $142.1 million decrease in wholesale energy revenues from sales of generated and purchased energy in PJM due to lower market prices in the third quarter of 2006 and the sale by ACE of its interests in the Keystone and Conemaugh generating plants, effective September 1, 2006, and (iii) $93.1 million decrease in sales due to milder weather (a 16% decrease in Heating Degree Days and a 12% decrease in Cooling Degree Days in 2006). Other Electric Revenue Other Electric Revenue decreased $6.9 million to $58.3 million in 2006 from $65.2 million in 2005 primarily due to a decrease in customer requested work. 58 Gas Operating Revenue Regulated Gas Revenue 2006 2005 Change Residential $ $ 116.2 $ $ 115.0 $$ 1.2 Commercial 73.0 68.5 4.5 Industrial 10.3 10.6 (.3) Transportation and Other 5.3 4.6 .7 Total Regulated Gas Revenue $ $ 204.8 $ $ 198.7 $$ 6.1 Regulated Gas Sales (Bcf) 2006 2005 Change Residential 6.6 8.4 (1.8) Commercial 4.6 5.6 (1.0) Industrial .8 1.1 (.3) Transportation and Other 6.3 5.6 .7 Total Regulated Gas Sales 18.3 20.7 (2.4) Regulated Gas Customers (in thousands) 2006 2005 Change Residential 112 111 1 Commercial 9 9 Industrial Transportation and Other Total Regulated Gas Customers 121 120 1 Regulated Gas Revenue increased by $6.1 million primarily due to (i) $33.2 million increase primarily due to GCR increase effective November 1, 2005, as a result of higher natural gas commodity costs (primarily offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Costs of Sales expense), offset by (ii) $22.3 million decrease in sales due to milder weather (a 17% decrease in Heating Degree Days in 2006), and (iii) $4.8 million decrease primarily due to differences in consumption among various customer rate classes. Other Gas Revenue Other Gas Revenue decreased by $12.2 million to $50.6 million in 2006 from $62.8 million in 2005 primarily due to lower off system sales (partially offset in Gas Purchased expense). Conectiv Energy The impact of Operating Revenue changes and Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales changes with respect to the Conectiv Energy component of the Competitive Energy business are encompassed within the following discussion of gross margin. 59 Operating Revenues of the Conectiv Energy segment are derived primarily from the sale of electricity. The primary components of its costs of sales are fuel and purchased power. Because fuel and electricity prices tend to move in tandem, price changes in these commodities from period to period can have a significant impact on Operating Revenue and costs of sales without signifying any change in the performance of the Conectiv Energy segment. For this reason, PHI from a managerial standpoint focuses on gross margin as a measure of performance. Conectiv Energy Gross Margin Beginning in 2007, power origination activities, which primarily represent the fixed margin component of structured power transactions such as default electricity supply contracts, were classified into Energy Marketing from Merchant Generation & Load Service. Accordingly, the 2006 and 2005 activity has been reclassified for comparative purposes. Power origination contributed $18.7 million and $7.5 million of gross margin for 2006 and 2005, respectively. 60 December 31, 2006 2005 Operating Revenue ($ millions): Merchant Generation & Load Service $ 1,073.2 $ 1,193.6 Energy Marketing 891.0 1,199.5 Total Operating Revenue 1 $ 1,964.2 $ 2,393.1 Cost of Sales ($ millions): Merchant Generation & Load Service $ 861.3 $ 952.5 Energy Marketing 847.7 1,181.4 Total Cost of Sales 2 $ 1,709.0 $ 2,133.9 Gross Margin ($ millions): Merchant Generation & Load Service $ 211.9 $ 241.1 Energy Marketing 43.3 18.1 Total Gross Margin $ 255.2 $ 259.2 Generation Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses ($ millions) 3: Generation Fuel Expenses 4,5 Natural Gas6 $ 174.5 $ 223.5 Coal 53.4 46.7 Oil 26.6 104.6 Other7 4.1 4.9 Total Generation Fuel Expenses $ 258.6 $ 379.7 Purchased Power Expenses 5 431.3 539.0 Statistics: 2006 2005 Generation Output (MWh): Base Load 8 1,814,517 1,738,280 Mid Merit (Combined Cycle) 9 2,081,873 2,971,294 Mid Merit (Oil Fired) 10 115,120 694,887 Peaking 131,930 190,688 Tolled Generation 94,064 70,834 Total 4,237,504 5,665,983 Load Service Volume (MWh) 11 8,514,719 14,230,888 Average Power Sales Price 12 ($/MWh): Generation Sales 4 $ 77.69 $ 87.62 Non Generation Sales 13 $ 58.49 $ 53.16 Total $ 62.54 $ 60.12 Average on peak spot power price at PJM East Hub ($/MWh) 14 $ 65.29 $ 83.35 Average around the clock spot power price at PJM East Hub ($/MWh) 14 $ 53.07 $ 66.05 Average spot natural gas price at market area M3 ($/MMBtu)15 $ 7.31 $ 9.69 Weather (degree days at Philadelphia Airport): 16 Heating degree days 4,205 4,966 Cooling degree days 1,136 1,306 1 Includes $471.1 million and $591.3 million of affiliate transactions for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2006 and 2005 amounts have been reclassified to exclude $193.1 million and $210.5 million, respectively, of intra affiliate transactions that were reported gross in 2006 and 2005 at the segment level. 2 Includes $4.6 million and $7.2 million of affiliate transactions for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2006 and 2005 amounts have been reclassified to exclude $193.1 million and $210.5 million, respectively, of affiliate transactions that were reported gross in 2006 and 2005 at the segment level. Also, excludes depreciation and amortization expense of $36.3 million and $40.4 million, respectively. 3 Consists solely of Merchant Generation & Load Service expenses; does not include the cost of fuel not consumed by the power plants and intercompany tolling expenses. 4 Includes tolled generation. 5 Includes associated hedging gains and losses. 6 Includes adjusted amounts in 2006 and 2005 for change in natural gas hedge allocation methodology. 7 Includes emissions expenses, fuel additives, and other fuel related costs. 8 Edge Moor Units 3 and 4 and Deepwater Unit 6. 9 Hay Road and Bethlehem, all units. 10 Edge Moor Unit 5 and Deepwater Unit 1. 11 Consists of all default electricity supply sales; does not include standard product hedge volumes. 12 Calculated from data reported in Conectiv Energys Electric Quarterly Report (EQR) filed with the FERC; does not include capacity or ancillary services revenue. 13 Consists of default electricity supply sales, standard product power sales, and spot power sales other than merchant generation as reported in Conectiv Energys EQR. 14 Source: PJM website (www.pjm.com). 15 Source: Average delivered natural gas price at Tetco Zone M3 as published in Gas Daily. 16 Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration National Weather Service data. 61 Merchant Generation & Load Service gross margin decreased $29.2 million primarily due to: A decrease of $110.9 million due a 26% decline in output from Conectiv Energys generating plants primarily because of milder weather in 2006, coupled with lower spark spreads, lower contribution from sales of ancillary services and fuel switching activities, and an unplanned summer outage at the Hay Road generating facility. An increase of $73.2 million on fuel and power hedge contracts. An increase of $10.1 million due to a mark to market gain on a supply contract. Energy Marketing gross margin increased $25.2 million primarily due to: An increase of $11.2 million in power origination due to new higher margin contracts. An increase of $9.2 million due to improved inventory management in the oil marketing business. An increase of $7.7 million in the gas marketing business from gains on storage, transportation, and supply contracts. A decrease of $3.3 million due to the expiration and associated termination costs of a contract to provide operating services for an unaffiliated generation station which expired on October 31, 2006. Pepco Energy Services Pepco Energy Services operating revenue increased $181.4 million primarily due to (i) an increase of $265.6 million due to higher retail electricity customer load in 2006 and (ii) an increase of $44.3 million due to higher energy services project revenue in 2006 resulting from increased construction activity partially offset by lower revenue related to the sale of five businesses in 2006; partially offset by (iii) a decrease of $93.8 million due to lower natural gas volumes in 2006 as a result of fewer customers served and milder weather, (iv) a decrease of $29.0 million due to reduced electricity generation by the Benning and Buzzard power plants in 2006 due to milder weather and higher fuel oil prices, and (v) a decrease of $5.7 million in mass market products and services revenue, a business Pepco Energy Services exited in 2005. As of December 31, 2006, Pepco Energy Services had 3,544 megawatts of commercial and industrial load, as compared to 2,034 megawatts of commercial and industrial load at the end of 2005. In 2006, Pepco Energy Services power plants generated 89,578 megawatt hours of electricity as compared to 237,624 in 2005. Other Non Regulated Other Non Regulated revenue increased $6.1 million to $90.6 million in 2006 from $84.5 million in 2005. Operating revenues consist of lease earnings recognized under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 13 and changes to the carrying value of the other miscellaneous investments. 62 Operating Expenses Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales A detail of PHIs consolidated Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales is as follows: 2006 2005 Change Power Delivery $ 3,303.6 $ 2,720.5 $ 583.1 Conectiv Energy 1,709.0 2,133.9 (424.9 ) Pepco Energy Services 1,531.1 1,357.5 173.6 Corp. & Other (477.8 ) (599.9 ) 122.1 Total $ 6,065.9 $ 5,612.0 $ 453.9 Power Delivery Power Deliverys Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales, which is primarily associated with Default Electricity Supply sales, increased by $583.1 million primarily due to: (i) $736.8 million increase in average energy costs, resulting from higher costs of Default Electricity Supply contracts that went into effect primarily in June 2006 and 2005, offset by (ii) $155.5 million decrease primarily due to differences in consumption among the various customer rate classes (impact due to such factors as weather, migration, etc). This expense is primarily offset in Default Supply Revenue, Regulated Gas Revenue, and Other Gas Revenue. Conectiv Energy The impact of Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales changes with respect to the Conectiv Energy component of the Competitive Energy business are encompassed within the prior discussion under the heading Conectiv Energy Gross Margin. Pepco Energy Services Pepco Energy Services Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales increased $173.6 million due to (i) a $246.5 million increase in purchases of electricity in 2006 to serve higher retail customer load and (ii) an increase of $37.2 million in costs due to higher energy services projects in 2006 as a result of increased construction activity; partially offset by (iii) a decrease of $87.6 million for purchases of natural gas due to lower volumes sold in 2006 as the result of fewer customers served and milder weather, (iv) a $17.6 million decrease in electricity generation costs in 2006 due to reduced electricity generation by the Benning and Buzzard power plants as a result of milder weather and higher fuel oil prices, (v) a $4.9 million decrease in mass market products and services costs, a business Pepco Energy Services exited in 2005, and (vi) decreased costs due to the sale of five companies in 2006. Other Operation and Maintenance A detail of PHIs other operation and maintenance expense is as follows: 63 2006 2005 Change Power Delivery $ 639.6 $ 643.1 $ (3.5 ) Conectiv Energy 116.3 107.7 8.6 Pepco Energy Services 67.6 71.2 (3.6 ) Other Non Regulated 4.2 5.2 (1.0 ) Corp. & Other (20.4 ) (11.5 ) (8.9 ) Total $ 807.3 $ 815.7 $ (8.4 ) The higher operation and maintenance expenses of the Conectiv Energy segment were primarily due to planned and unplanned facility outages. The impact of this increase was substantially offset by lower corporate expenses related to the amortization of non compete agreements and other administrative and general expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased by $14.1 million to $413.2 million in 2006, from $427.3 million in 2005. The decrease is primarily due to (i) $5.4 million change in depreciation technique resulting from the ACE distribution base rate case settlement in 2005 that depreciates assets over their whole life versus their remaining life, (ii) $4.1 million reduction of ACE regulatory debits, and (iii) $3 million reduction due to completion of amortization related to software, offset by net increases to plant in service (additions less retirements) of about $5.4 million. Deferred Electric Service Costs Deferred Electric Service Costs decreased by $98.1 million to $22.1 million in 2006 from $120.2 million in 2005. The $98.1 million decrease was attributable to (i) $92.4 million net under recovery associated with New Jersey BGS, NUGs, market transition charges and other restructuring items and (ii) $5.7 million in regulatory disallowances (net of amounts previously reserved) in connection with the ACE distribution base rate case settlement in 2005. Impairment Losses For the year ended December 31, 2006, Pepco Holdings recorded pre tax impairment losses of $18.9 million ($13.7 million after tax) related to certain energy services business assets owned by Pepco Energy Services. The impairments were recorded as a result of the execution of contracts to sell certain assets and due to the lower than expected production and related estimated cash flows from other assets. The fair value of the assets under contract for sale was determined based on the sales contract price; while the fair value of the other assets was determined by estimating future expected production and cash flows. Gain on Sale of Assets Pepco Holdings recorded a Gain on Sale of Assets of $.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $86.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The $86.8 million gain in 2005 primarily consisted of: (i) a $68.1 million gain from the sale of non utility land owned by Pepco located at Buzzard Point in the District of Columbia, and (ii) a $13.3 million gain recorded by PCI from proceeds related to the final liquidation of a financial investment that was written off in 2001. 64 Effect of Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims The Effect of Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims of $70.5 million in 2005 represents a settlement (net of customer sharing) with Mirant of the allowed, pre petition general unsecured claim related to a transition power agreement (TPA) by Pepco in the Mirant bankruptcy in the amount of $105 million (the TPA Claim) ($70 million gain) and a Pepco asbestos claim against the Mirant bankruptcy estate ($.5 million gain). See Capital Resources and Liquidity Cash Flow Activity Proceeds from Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims. Other Income (Expenses) Other Expenses (which are net of other income) decreased by $3.1 million to $282.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $285.5 million for the same period in 2005. The decrease primarily resulted from an increase in income from equity fund valuations at PCI of $7.3 million and $2.3 in lower impairment charges during 2006 compared to 2005, partially offset by a $6.6 million gain in 2005 related to the sale of an investment. Income Tax Expense PHIs effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were 39.3% and 41.2%, respectively. The 1.9% decrease in the effective tax rate in 2006 was primarily the result of changes in estimates related to prior year tax liabilities, which reduced the effective tax rate by 2.3%. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY This section discusses Pepco Holdings working capital, cash flow activity, capital requirements and other uses and sources of capital. Working Capital At December 31, 2007, Pepco Holdings current assets on a consolidated basis totaled $2.0 billion and its current liabilities totaled $2.0 billion. At December 31, 2006, Pepco Holdings current assets on a consolidated basis totaled $2.0 billion and its current liabilities totaled $2.5 billion. The working capital deficit at the end of 2006 was primarily due to $500 million of current long term debt due to mature in August 2007. During 2007, PHI refinanced $450 million of the maturing debt with new long term debt. At December 31, 2007, Pepco Holdings cash and cash equivalents and its current restricted cash (cash that is available to be used only for designated purposes) totaled $69.6 million. At December 31, 2006, Pepco Holdings cash and cash equivalents and its current restricted cash, totaled $60.8 million. See Capital Requirements Contractual Arrangements with Credit Rating Triggers or Margining Rights for additional information. 65 A detail of PHIs short term debt balance and its current maturities of long term debt and project funding balance follows. As of December 31, 2007 (Millions of dollars) Type PHI Parent Pepco DPL ACE ACE Funding Conectiv Energy Pepco Energy Services PCI Conectiv PHI Consolidated Variable Rate Demand Bonds $ $ $104.8 $22.6 $ $ $24.3 $ $ $151.7 Commercial Paper 84.0 24.0 29.1 137.1 Total Short Term Debt $ $ 84.0 $128.8 $51.7 $ $ $24.3 $ $ $288.8 Current Maturities of Long Term Debt and Project Funding $ $128.0 $ 22.6 $50.0 $31.0 $ $ 8.6 $92.0 $ $332.2 As of December 31, 2006 (Millions of dollars) Type PHI Parent Pepco DPL ACE ACE Funding Conectiv Energy Pepco Energy Services PCI Conectiv PHI Consolidated Variable Rate Demand Bonds $ $ $104.8 $22.6 $ $ $26.8 $ $ $154.2 Commercial Paper 36.0 67.1 91.1 1.2 195.4 Total Short Term Debt $ 36.0 $ 67.1 $195.9 $23.8 $ $ $26.8 $ $ $349.6 Current Maturities of Long Term Debt and Project Funding $500.0 $210.0 $ 64.7 $16.0 $29.9 $ $ 2.6 $34.3 $ $857.5 Cash Flow Activity PHIs cash flows for 2007, 2006, and 2005 are summarized below. Cash Source (Use) 2007 2006 2005 (Millions of dollars) Operating Activities $ 795.0 $ 202.6 $ 986.9 Investing Activities (581.6) (229.1) (333.9) Financing Activities (207.1) (46.2) (561.0) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 6.3 $ (72.7) $ 92.0 66 Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities are summarized below for 2007, 2006, and 2005. Cash Source (Use) 2007 2006 2005 (Millions of dollars) Net Income $ 334.2 $ 248.3 $ 371.2 Non cash adjustments to net income 382.3 613.0 161.2 Changes in working capital 78.5 (658.7) 454.5 Net cash from operating activities $ 795.0 $ 202.6 $ 986.9 Net cash from operating activities in 2007 was $592.4 million higher than in 2006. In addition to net income, the factors that primarily contributed to the increase were: (i) a decrease of $202.9 million in taxes paid in 2007, partially attributable to a tax payment of $121 million made in February 2006 in connection with an unresolved tax matter (see Regulatory and Other Matters IRS Mixed Service Cost Issue below) and (ii) the change in cash collateral requirements detailed below associated with Competitive Energy activities. Changes in cash collateral include the following: The balance of cash collateral posted by PHI (net of cash collateral held by PHI) decreased $61.7 million from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2007 (an increase in cash). The balance of cash collateral posted by PHI (net of cash collateral held by PHI) increased $259.9 million from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006 (a decrease in cash). Cash flows from operating activities in 2007 also were affected by the Mirant bankruptcy settlement. See Proceeds from Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims below. During the third quarter of 2007, Pepco Holdings received $413.9 million in net settlement proceeds, of which $398.9 million was designated as operating cash flows and $15.0 million was designated as investing cash flows. See Investing Activities below. These funds were used to purchase money market funds, which are considered cash equivalents, and have been accounted for as restricted cash based on managements intent only to use such funds, and any interest earned thereon, to pay for the future above market capacity and energy purchase costs under the Panda PPA. This restricted cash has been classified as a non current asset to be consistent with the classification of the corresponding non current regulatory liability, and any changes in the balance of this restricted cash, including interest receipts, have been considered operating cash flows. Net cash from operating activities in 2006 was $784.3 million lower than in 2005. In addition to the decrease in net income, the factors contributing to the decrease in cash flow from operating activities included: (i) an increase of $194.5 million in taxes paid in 2006, including a tax payment of $121 million made in February 2006 in connection with an unresolved tax matter (see Regulatory and Other Matters IRS Mixed Service Cost Issue below), (ii) a decrease in the change in regulatory assets and liabilities of $107.9 million due primarily to the 2005 over 67 recoveries associated with New Jersey BGS, NUGs, market transition charges and other restructuring items, and (iii) the change in collateral requirements associated with the activities of Competitive Energy described above. Investing Activities Cash flows used by investing activities during 2007, 2006, and 2005 are summarized below. Cash (Use) Source 2007 2006 2005 (Millions of dollars) Construction expenditures $ (623.4) $ (474.6) $ (467.1) Cash proceeds from sale of properties 11.2 181.5 84.1 All other investing cash flows, net 30.6 64.0 49.1 Net cash used by investing activities $ (581.6) $ (229.1) $ (333.9) Net cash used by investing activities in 2007 was $352.5 million higher than in 2006 primarily due to: (i) a $148.8 million increase in capital expenditures, $107.0 million of which relates to Power Delivery, and (ii) a decrease of $170.3 million in cash proceeds from the sale of property. The increase in Power Delivery capital expenditures is primarily due to major transmission projects and new substations for Pepco and ACE. The proceeds from the sale of property in 2006 consisted primarily of $177.0 million from the sale of ACEs interest in the Keystone and Conemaugh generating facilities and $13.1 million from the sale of Conectiv Energys equity interest in a joint venture which owns a wood burning cogeneration facility. Proceeds from the sale of property in 2007 consisted primarily of $9.0 million received from the sale of the B.L. England generating facility. Cash flows from investing activities in 2007 also include $15.0 million of the net settlement proceeds received by Pepco in the Mirant bankruptcy settlement that were specifically designated as a reimbursement of certain investments in property, plant and equipment. Net cash used by investing activities in 2006 were $104.8 million lower than in 2005. The decrease is primarily due to the net proceeds of $177.0 million received in 2006 from the sale of ACEs interest in the Keystone and Conemaugh generating facilities, compared to the $73.7 million in proceeds received in 2005 from the sale of the Buzzard Point land. 68 Financing Activities Cash flows used by financing activities during 2007, 2006 and 2005 are summarized below. Cash (Use) Source 2007 2006 2005 (Millions of dollars) Dividends paid on common and preferred stock $ (202.9) $ (199.5) $ (191.4) Common stock issued through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRP) 28.0 29.8 27.5 Issuance of common stock 199.6 17.0 5.7 Redemption of preferred stock of subsidiaries (18.2) (21.5) (9.0) Issuances of long term debt 703.9 514.5 532.0 Reacquisition of long term debt (854.9) (578.0) (755.8) (Repayments) issuances of short term debt, net (58.3) 193.2 (161.3) All other financing cash flows, net (4.3) (1.7) (8.7) Net cash used by financing activities $ (207.1) $ (46.2) $ (561.0) Net cash used by financing activities in 2007 was $160.9 million higher than in 2006. Net cash used by financing activities in 2006 was $514.8 million lower than in 2005. Changes in Outstanding Common Stock In November 2007, PHI sold 6.5 million shares of common stock in a registered offering at a price per share of $27.00, resulting in gross proceeds of $175.5 million. The net proceeds are being used for general corporate purposes. The balance of the change in 2007 common stock is primarily attributable to the issuance of performance based shares under the long term incentive plan. Under the DRP, PHI issued 979,155 shares of common stock in 2007, 1,232,569 shares of common stock in 2006, and 1,228,505 shares of common stock in 2005. Common Stock Dividends Common stock dividend payments were $202.6 million in 2007, $198.3 million in 2006, and $188.9 million in 2005. The increase in common dividends paid in 2007 was due primarily to an issuance of the additional shares under the DRP. The increase in common dividends paid in 2006 was due to the issuance of the additional shares under the DRP and a quarterly dividend increase from 25 cents per share to 26 cents per share beginning in the first quarter of 2006. Changes in Outstanding Preferred Stock Preferred stock redemptions in 2007 consisted of DPLs redemption in January 2007, at prices ranging from 103% to 105% of par, of the following securities, representing all of DPLs outstanding preferred stock, at an aggregate cost of $18.9 million: 19,809 shares of 4.00% Series, 1943 Redeemable Serial Preferred Stock, 69 39,866 shares of 3.70% Series, 1947 Redeemable Serial Preferred Stock, 28,460 shares of 4.28% Series, 1949 Redeemable Serial Preferred Stock, 19,571 shares of 4.56% Series, 1952 Redeemable Serial Preferred Stock, 25,404 shares of 4.20% Series, 1955 Redeemable Serial Preferred Stock, and 48,588 shares of 5.00% Series, 1956 Redeemable Serial Preferred Stock. Preferred stock redemptions in 2006 consisted of Pepcos redemption in March 2006 of the following securities at an aggregate cost of $21.5 million: 216,846 shares of $2.44 Series, 1957 Serial Preferred Stock, 99,789 shares of $2.46 Series, 1958 Serial Preferred Stock, and 112,709 shares of $2.28 Series, 1965 Serial Preferred Stock. Preferred stock redemptions in 2005 consisted of: Pepcos redemption in October 2005 of the following securities at an aggregate cost of $5.5 million: o 22,795 shares of $2.44 Series 1957 Serial Preferred Stock, o 74,103 shares of $2.46 Series 1958 Serial Preferred Stock, and o 13,148 shares of $2.28 Series 1965 Serial Preferred Stock. ACEs redemption in August 2005 of 160 shares of 4.35% Serial Preferred Stock at a cost of $.02 million, and DPLs redemption in December 2005 of all of the 35,000 shares of 6.75% Serial Preferred Stock outstanding at a cost of $3.5 million. Changes in Outstanding Long Term Debt Cash flows from the issuance and redemption of long term debt in 2007 were attributable primarily to the following transactions, which encompass $700.0 million of the $703.9 million in long term debt issued in 2007 and all of the $854.9 million in long term debt redeemed in 2007: In January 2007, Pepco retired at maturity $35 million of 7.64% medium term notes and also retired at maturity $175 million of 6.25% first mortgage bonds using the proceeds of commercial paper. In November 2007, Pepco issued $250 million of 6.5% first mortgage bonds. 70 In February 2007, DPL retired at maturity $11.5 million of medium term notes with a weighted average interest rate of 7.08%. In the second quarter of 2007, DPL retired at maturity $50 million of 8.125% medium term notes and $3.2 million of 6.95% first mortgage bonds. In the second quarter of 2007, ACE retired at maturity $15 million of 7.52% medium term notes and $1 million of 7.15% medium term notes. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Atlantic City Electric Transition Funding LLC (ACE Funding) made principal payments of $21.4 million on Series 2002 1 Bonds, Class A 1 and $8.5 million on Series 2003 1, Class A 1 with a weighted average interest rate of 2.89%. In February 2007, PCI retired at maturity $34.3 million of 7.62% medium term notes. In April 2007, PHI issued $200 million of 6.0% notes due 2019 in a private placement. The proceeds were used to redeem $200 million of 5.5% notes due August 15, 2007 at a price of 100.0377% of par. In June 2007, PHI issued $250 million of 6.125% notes due 2017 in a public offering and used the proceeds along with short term debt to redeem $300 million of its 5.5% notes in August 2007. Cash flows from the issuance and redemption of long term debt in 2006 were attributable primarily to the following transactions, which encompass all of the $514.5 million of long term debt issued in 2006 and $576.4 million of the $578.0 million of the long term debt redeemed in 2006: In May 2006, Pepco used the proceeds from a bond refinancing to redeem an aggregate of $109.5 million of three series of first mortgage bonds. The series were combined into one series of $109.5 million due 2022. In December 2006, Pepco retired at maturity $50 million of variable rate notes. In June 2006, DPL redeemed $2.9 million of 6.95% first mortgage bonds due 2008. In October 2006, DPL retired at maturity $20 million of medium term notes. In December 2006, DPL issued $100 million of 5.22% unsecured notes due 2016. The proceeds were used to redeem DPLs commercial paper outstanding. In the first quarter of 2006, PHI retired at maturity $300 million of its 3.75% unsecured notes with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. In December 2006, PHI issued $200 million of 5.9% unsecured notes due 2016. The net proceeds, plus additional funds, were used to repay a $250 million bank loan entered into in August 2006. In January 2006, ACE retired at maturity $65 million of medium term notes. 71 In March 2006, ACE issued $105 million of Senior Notes due 2036. The proceeds were used to pay down short term debt incurred earlier in the quarter to repay medium term notes at maturity. For the year ended December 31, 2006, ACE Funding made principal payments of $20.7 million on Series 2002 1 Bonds, Class A 1 and $8.3 million on Series 2003 1, Class A 1 with a weighted average interest rate of 2.89%. Cash flows from the issuance and redemption of long term debt in 2005 were attributable primarily to the following transactions, which encompass $525 million of the $532 million of long term debt issued in 2005 and $727.7 million of the $755.8 million of long term debt redeemed in 2005: In 2005, Pepco Holdings issued $250 million of floating rate unsecured notes due 2010. The net proceeds, plus additional funds, were used to repay commercial paper issued to fund the $300 million redemptions of Conectiv debt. In September 2005, Pepco used the proceeds from the June 2005 issuance of $175 million in senior secured notes to fund the retirement of $100 million in first mortgage bonds at maturity as well as the redemption of $75 million in first mortgage bonds prior to maturity. In 2005, DPL issued $100 million of unsecured notes due 2015. The net proceeds were used to redeem $102.7 million of higher rate securities. In December 2005, Pepco paid down $50 million of its $100 million bank loan due December 2006. In 2005, ACE retired at maturity $40 million of medium term notes. In 2005, PCI redeemed $60 million of medium term notes. PHIs long term debt is subject to certain covenants. PHI and its subsidiaries are in compliance with all requirements. Changes in Short Term Debt In 2007, PHI redeemed a total of $36.0 million in short term debt with cash from operations. In 2006, Pepco and DPL issued short term debt of $67.1 million and $91.1 million, respectively, in order to cover capital expenditures and tax obligations throughout the year. In 2005, ACE and PHI redeemed a total of $161.3 million in short term debt with cash from operations. 72 Sales of ACE Generating Facilities On September 1, 2006, ACE completed the sale of its interest in the Keystone and Conemaugh generating facilities for $175.4 million (after giving effect to post closing adjustments). On February 8, 2007, ACE completed the sale of the B.L. England generating facility for a price of $9.0 million. No gain or loss was realized on these sales. Sale of Interest in Cogeneration Joint Venture During the first quarter of 2006, Conectiv Energy recognized a $12.3 million pre tax gain ($7.9 million after tax) on the sale of its equity interest in a joint venture which owns a wood burning cogeneration facility. Proceeds from Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims In 2000, Pepco sold substantially all of its electricity generating assets to Mirant. In 2003, Mirant commenced a voluntary bankruptcy proceeding in which it sought to reject certain obligations that it had undertaken in connection with the asset sale. As part of the asset sale, Pepco entered into the TPAs. Under a settlement to avoid the rejection by Mirant of its obligations under the TPAs in the bankruptcy proceeding, the terms of the TPAs were modified to increase the purchase price of the energy and capacity supplied by Mirant and Pepco received the TPA Claim. In December 2005, Pepco sold the TPA Claim, plus the right to receive accrued interest thereon, to an unaffiliated third party for $112.5 million. In addition, Pepco received proceeds of $.5 million in settlement of an asbestos claim against the Mirant bankruptcy estate. After customer sharing, Pepco recorded a pre tax gain of $70.5 million from the settlement of these claims. In connection with the asset sale, Pepco and Mirant also entered into a back to back arrangement, whereby Mirant agreed to purchase from Pepco the 230 megawatts of electricity and capacity that Pepco is obligated to purchase annually through 2021 from Panda under the Panda PPA at the purchase price Pepco is obligated to pay to Panda. As part of the further settlement of Pepcos claims against Mirant arising from the Mirant bankruptcy, Pepco agreed not to contest the rejection by Mirant of its obligations under the back to back arrangement in exchange for the payment by Mirant of damages corresponding to the estimated amount by which the purchase price that Pepco is obligated to pay Panda for the energy and capacity exceeded the market price. In 2007, Pepco received as damages $413.9 million in net proceeds from the sale of shares of Mirant common stock issued to it by Mirant. These funds are being accounted for as restricted cash based on managements intent to use such funds, and any interest earned thereon, for the sole purpose of paying for the future above market capacity and energy purchase costs under the Panda PPA. Correspondingly, a regulatory liability has been established in the same amount to help offset the future above market capacity and energy purchase costs. This restricted cash has been classified as a non current asset to be consistent with the classification of the non current regulatory liability, and any changes in the balance of this restricted cash, including interest on the invested funds, are being accounted for as operating cash flows. As of December 31, 2007, the balance of the restricted cash account was $417.3 million. Based on a reexamination of the costs of the Panda PPA in light of current and projected wholesale market conditions conducted in the fourth quarter of 2007, Pepco determined that, principally due to increases in wholesale capacity prices, the present value above market cost of 73 the Panda PPA over the term of the agreement are expected to be significantly less than the current amount of the restricted cash account balance. Accordingly, on February 22, 2008, Pepco filed applications with the DCPSC and the MPSC requesting orders directing Pepco to maintain $320 million in the restricted cash account and to use that cash, and any future earnings on the cash, for the sole purpose of paying the future above market cost of the Panda PPA (or, in the alternative, to fund a transfer or assignment of the remaining obligations under the Panda PPA to a third party). Pepco also requested that the order provide that any cash remaining in the account at the conclusion of the Panda PPA be refunded to customers and that any shortfall be recovered from customers. Pepco further proposed that the excess proceeds remaining from the settlement (approximately $94.6 million, representing the amount by which the regulatory liability of $414.6 million at December 31, 2007 exceeded $320 million) be shared approximately equally with its customers in accordance with the procedures previously approved by each commission for the sharing of the proceeds received by Pepco from the sale to Mirant of its generating assets. The regulatory liability of $414.6 million at December 31, 2007 differs from the restricted cash amount of $417.3 million on that date, in part, because the regulatory liability has been reduced for the portion of the December 2007 Panda charges in excess of market that had not yet been paid from the restricted cash account. The amount of the restricted cash balance that Pepco is permitted to retain will be recorded as earnings upon approval of the sharing arrangement by the respective commissions. At this time, Pepco cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. In settlement of other damages claims against Mirant, Pepco in 2007 also received a settlement payment in the amount of $70.0 million. Of this amount (i) $33.4 million was recorded as a reduction in operating expenses, (ii) $21.0 million was recorded as a reduction in a net pre petition receivable claim from Mirant, (iii) $15.0 million was recorded as a reduction in the capitalized costs of certain property, plant and equipment and (iv) $.6 million was recorded as a liability to reimburse a third party for certain legal costs associated with the settlement. Sale of Buzzard Point Property In August 2005, Pepco sold for $75 million excess non utility land located at Buzzard Point in the District of Columbia. The sale resulted in a pre tax gain of $68.1 million which was recorded as a reduction of Operating Expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Financial Investment Liquidation In October 2005, PCI received $13.3 million in cash and recorded an after tax gain of $8.9 million related to the liquidation of a financial investment that was written off in 2001. Capital Requirements Capital Expenditures Pepco Holdings total capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2007 totaled $623.4 million of which $272.2 million related to Pepco (excluding $15 million of reimbursements related to the settlement of the Mirant bankruptcy claims), $132.6 million related to DPL and $149.4 million related to ACE. The remainder of $69.2 million was primarily related to Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services. The Power Delivery expenditures were primarily related to capital costs associated with new customer services, distribution reliability, and transmission. 74 The table below shows the projected capital expenditures for Pepco, DPL, ACE, Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services for the five year period 2008 through 2012. For the Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total (Millions of Dollars) Pepco Distribution $ 192 $ 215 $ 212 $ 232 $ 331 $ 1,182 Distribution Blueprint for the Future 24 61 61 63 5 214 Transmission 45 64 167 168 62 506 MAPP 17 72 30 119 Other 15 17 12 12 11 67 DPL Distribution 101 118 124 124 138 605 Distribution Blueprint for the Future 22 58 59 30 9 178 Transmission 57 52 45 57 52 263 MAPP 11 107 210 271 185 784 Gas Delivery 23 24 19 19 18 103 Other 10 10 9 7 7 43 ACE Distribution 96 107 101 109 111 524 Distribution Blueprint for the Future 15 11 16 20 85 147 Transmission 78 17 25 45 47 212 MAPP 1 2 3 6 Other 10 10 8 7 5 40 Total for Power Delivery Business 716 943 1,099 1,166 1,069 4,993 Conectiv Energy 155 229 161 28 9 582 Pepco Energy Services 21 13 13 14 15 76 Corporate 4 2 2 2 2 12 Total PHI $ 896 $ 1,187 $ 1,275 $ 1,210 $ 1,095 $ 5,663 Pepco Holdings expects to fund these expenditures through internally generated cash and external financing. Distribution, Transmission and Gas Delivery The projected capital expenditures for distribution (other than Blueprint for the Future), transmission (other than MAPP) and gas delivery are primarily for facility replacements and upgrades to accommodate customer growth and reliability. Blueprint for the Future During 2007, Pepco, DPL and ACE each announced an initiative that it refers to as the Blueprint for the Future. These initiatives combine traditional energy efficiency programs with new technologies and systems to help customers manage their energy use and reduce the total cost of energy. The programs include Demand side management efforts, such as rebates or other financial incentives for residential customers to replace inefficient appliances and for business customers to use more energy efficient equipment, such as improved lighting and HVAC systems. Under the programs, customers also could receive credits on their bills for allowing the utility company to cycle, or intermittently turn off, their central air conditioning or heat pumps when wholesale electricity prices are high. The programs contemplate that business customers would receive financial incentives for using energy efficient equipment, and would be rewarded for reducing use during periods of peak demand. Additionally, Pepco and DPL intend to install smart meters for all customers in the District of Columbia, Maryland and 75 Delaware, providing the utilities with the ability to remotely read the meters and identify the location of a power outage. Pepco, DPL and ACE have made filings with their respective regulatory commissions for approval of certain aspects of these programs. The projected costs for PHIs utility subsidiaries for the years 2008 through 2012 are included in the table above. MAPP Project On October 17, 2007, PHI received the approval of the PJM Board of Managers to build a new 230 mile, 500 kilovolt interstate transmission line as part of PJMs Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to address the reliability objectives of the PJM RTO system. The transmission line, which is referred to as the MAPP Project, will be located in northern Virginia, Maryland, the Delmarva Peninsula, and New Jersey. The preliminarily estimated cost of the MAPP Project is approximately $1 billion. Construction is expected to occur in sections over a six year period with completion targeted by 2013. PHI also plans to add significant 230 kilovolt support lines in Maryland and New Jersey to connect with the new 500 kilovolt line at an approximate cost of $200 million. PJM continues to evaluate the 230 kilovolt support lines. Only the projected construction costs associated with the 500 kilovolt transmission line for the years 2008 through 2012 are included in the table above. Delta Project On December 14, 2007, Conectiv Energy announced a decision to construct a 545 MW natural gas and oil fired combined cycle electricity generation plant to be located in Peach Bottom Township, Pennsylvania (Delta Project). The total construction expenditures for the Delta Project are expected to be $470 million, with projected expenditures of $62 million in 2008, $195 million in 2009, $136 million in 2010, and $14 million in 2011, and are included in Conectiv Energys projected capital expenditures shown in the table above. The total expenditures include $63 million in development costs and three combustion turbines currently held in inventory by Conectiv Energy. The plant is expected to become operational by June 2011. Cumberland Project In 2007, Conectiv Energy began construction of a new combustion turbine power plant in Millville, New Jersey. The total construction expenditures for this project are expected to be $75 million (of which $24 million was expended in 2007), with projected expenditures of $46 million in 2008 and $5 million in 2009. These future expenditures are included in Conectiv Energys projected capital expenditures shown in the table above. Compliance with Delaware Multipollutant Regulations As required by the Delaware multipollutant emissions regulations adopted by the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, PHI, in June 2007, filed a compliance plan for controlling nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and mercury emissions from its Edge Moor power plant. The plan includes installation of a sodium based sorbent injection system and a Selective Non Catalytic Reduction (SNCR) system and carbon injection for Edge Moor Units 3 and 4, and use of an SNCR system and lower sulfur oil at Edge Moor Unit 5. Conectiv Energy currently believes that with these modifications, it will be able to meet the requirements of the new regulations at an estimated capital cost of $79 million. The compliance plan filed by Conectiv Energy contemplates capital expenditures of $38 million of capital in 2008 and $19 million of capital in 2009. 76 Dividends Pepco Holdings annual dividend rate on its common stock is determined by the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis and takes into consideration, among other factors, current and possible future developments that may affect PHIs income and cash flows. In 2007, PHIs Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends of 26 cents per share of common stock payable on March 30, 2007, June 29, 2007, September 28, 2007 and December 31, 2007. On January 24, 2008, the Board of Directors declared a dividend on common stock of 27 cents per share payable March 31, 2008, to shareholders of record March 10, 2008. PHI generates no operating income of its own. Accordingly, its ability to pay dividends to its shareholders depends on dividends received from its subsidiaries. In addition to their future financial performance, the ability of PHIs direct and indirect subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to limits imposed by: (i) state corporate and regulatory laws, which impose limitations on the funds that can be used to pay dividends and, in the case of regulatory laws, as applicable, may require the prior approval of the relevant utility regulatory commissions before dividends can be paid, (ii) the prior rights of holders of existing and future preferred stock, mortgage bonds and other long term debt issued by the subsidiaries, and any other restrictions imposed in connection with the incurrence of liabilities, and (iii) certain provisions of ACEs certificate of incorporation which provides that, if any preferred stock is outstanding, no dividends may be paid on the ACE common stock if, after payment, ACEs common stock capital plus surplus would be less than the involuntary liquidation value of the outstanding preferred stock. Pepco and DPL have no shares of preferred stock outstanding. Currently, the restriction in the ACE charter does not limit its ability to pay dividends. Pension Funding Pepco Holdings has a noncontributory retirement plan (the PHI Retirement Plan) that covers substantially all employees of Pepco, DPL and ACE and certain employees of other Pepco Holdings subsidiaries. As of the 2007 valuation, the PHI Retirement Plan satisfied the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) without requiring any additional funding. PHIs funding policy with regard to the PHI Retirement Plan is to maintain a funding level in excess of 100% of its accumulated benefit obligation (ABO). In 2007 and 2006, no contributions were made to the PHI Retirement Plan. In 2007, the ABO for the PHI Retirement Plan decreased from 2006, due to an increase in the discount rate used to value the ABO obligation, which more than offset the accrual of an additional year of service for participants. The PHI Retirement Plan assets achieved returns in 2007 above the 8.25% level assumed in the valuation. As a result of the combination of these factors, no contribution was made to the PHI Retirement Plan, because the funding level at year end 2007 was in excess of 100% of the ABO. In 2006, as a result of similar factors, PHI made no contribution to the PHI Retirement Plan. Assuming no changes to the current pension plan assumptions, PHI projects no funding will be required under ERISA in 2008; however, PHI may elect to make a discretionary tax deductible contribution, if required to maintain its assets in excess of ABO for the PHI Retirement Plan. Legislative changes, in the form of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, impact the funding requirements for pension plans beginning in 2008. The Pension Protection Act alters the manner in which liabilities and asset values are determined 77 for the purpose of calculating required pension contributions. Based on preliminary actuarial projections and assuming no changes to current pension plan assumptions, PHI believes it is unlikely that there will be a required contribution in 2008. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Summary information about Pepco Holdings consolidated contractual obligations and commercial commitments at December 31, 2007, is as follows: Contractual Maturity Obligation (a) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years (Millions of dollars) Variable rate demand bonds $ 151.7 $ 151.7 $ $ $ Commercial paper 137.1 137.1 Long term debt (b) 4,938.4 323.8 614.1 857.2 3,143.3 Long term project funding 29.3 8.4 4.1 3.3 13.5 Interest payments on debt 3,254.4 282.8 521.5 462.7 1,987.4 Capital leases 182.9 15.4 30.4 30.4 106.7 Liabilities and accrued interest related to effectively settled and uncertain tax positions 140.8 71.0 13.0 56.8 Operating leases 512.0 38.1 62.4 49.6 361.9 Non derivative fuel and purchase power contracts (c) 9,806.1 3,176.7 2,756.8 752.7 3,119.9 Total $ 19,152.7 $ 4,205.0 $ 3,989.3 $ 2,168.9 $ 8,789.5 (a) Estimates relating to the future funding of PHIs pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not included in this table. For additional information, see Item 8, Note (6) Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Cash Flows. (b) Includes transition bonds issued by ACE Funding. (c) Excludes contractual obligations entered into by ACE to purchase electricity to satisfy its BGS load. Third Party Guarantees, Indemnifications and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Pepco Holdings and certain of its subsidiaries have various financial and performance guarantees and indemnification obligations which are entered into in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties as discussed below. As of December 31, 2007, Pepco Holdings and its subsidiaries were parties to a variety of agreements pursuant to which they were guarantors for standby letters of credit, performance residual value, and other commitments and obligations. These commitments and obligations, in millions of dollars, were as follows: 78 Guarantor PHI DPL ACE Other Total Energy marketing obligations of Conectiv Energy (a) $ 180.9 $ $ $ $ 180.9 Energy procurement obligations of Pepco Energy Services (a) 141.7 141.7 Guaranteed lease residual values (b) 2.6 2.7 .4 5.7 Other (c) 2.3 1.4 3.7 Total $ 324.9 $ 2.6 $ 2.7 $ 1.8 $ 332.0 (a) Pepco Holdings has contractual commitments ensuring the performance and related payments of Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services to counterparties under routine energy sales and procurement obligations, including retail customer load obligations of Pepco Energy Services and requirements under BGS contracts entered into by Conectiv Energy with ACE. (b) Subsidiaries of Pepco Holdings have guaranteed residual values in excess of fair value of certain equipment and fleet vehicles held through lease agreements. As of December 31, 2007, obligations under the guarantees were approximately $5.7 million. Assets leased under agreements subject to residual value guarantees are typically for periods ranging from 2 years to 10 years. Historically, payments under the guarantees have not been made by the guarantor as, under normal conditions, the contract runs to full term at which time the residual value is minimal. As such, Pepco Holdings believes the likelihood of payment being required under the guarantee is remote. (c) Other guarantees consist of: Pepco Holdings has guaranteed a subsidiary building lease of $2.3 million. Pepco Holdings does not expect to fund the full amount of the exposure under the guarantee. PCI has guaranteed facility rental obligations related to contracts entered into by Starpower Communications, LLC, a joint venture in which PCI prior to December 2004 had a 50% interest. As of December 31, 2007, the guarantees cover the remaining $1.4 million in rental obligations. Pepco Holdings and certain of its subsidiaries have entered into various indemnification agreements related to purchase and sale agreements and other types of contractual agreements with vendors and other third parties. These indemnification agreements typically cover environmental, tax, litigation and other matters, as well as breaches of representations, warranties and covenants set forth in these agreements. Typically, claims may be made by third parties under these indemnification agreements over various periods of time depending on the nature of the claim. The maximum potential exposure under these indemnification agreements can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount depending on the nature of the claim and the particular transaction. The total maximum potential amount of future payments under these indemnification agreements is not estimable due to several factors, including uncertainty as to whether or when claims may be made under these indemnities. 79 Energy Contract Net Asset/Liability Activity The following table provides detail on changes in the net asset or liability position of the Competitive Energy businesses (consisting of the activities of the Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services segments) with respect to energy commodity contracts from one period to the next: Roll forward of Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) For the Year Ended December 31, 2007 (Dollars are pre tax and in millions) Proprietary Trading (a) Other Energy Commodity (b) Total Total Marked to Market (MTM) Energy Contract Net Liabilities at December 31, 2006 $ $(64.3) $(64.3) Total change in unrealized fair value 8.2 8.2 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts 73.9 73.9 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in Other Comprehensive Income 2.8 2.8 Ineffective portion of changes in fair value recorded in earnings (2.5) (2.5) Total MTM Energy Contract Net Assets at December 31, 2007 $ $ 18.1 $ 18.1 Detail of MTM Energy Contract Net Assets at December 31, 2007 (see above) Total Current Assets (other current assets) $ 44.2 Noncurrent Assets (other assets) 24.6 Total MTM Energy Contract Assets 68.8 Current Liabilities (other current liabilities) (23.0) Noncurrent Liabilities (other liabilities) (27.7) Total MTM Energy Contract Liabilities (50.7) Total MTM Energy Contract Net Assets $ 18.1 (a) PHI does not engage in proprietary trading activities. (b) Includes all SFAS No. 133 hedge activity and non proprietary trading activities marked to market through earnings. PHI uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of the commodity and derivative contracts that its Competitive Energy businesses hold and sell. The fair values in each category presented below reflect forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2007 and are subject to change as a result of changes in these factors: 80 Maturity and Source of Fair Value of Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) As of December 31, 2007 (Dollars are pre tax and in millions) Fair Value of Contracts at December 31, 2007 Maturities (a) Source of Fair Value 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Beyond Total Fair Value Proprietary Trading Actively Quoted (i.e., exchange traded) prices $ $ $ $ $ Prices provided by other external sources Modeled Total $ $ $ $ $ Other Energy Commodity, net (b) Actively Quoted (i.e., exchange traded) prices $(15.0) $ 10.0 $ 3.2 $ .2 $ (1.6) Prices provided by other external sources (c) 23.7 (8.4) 4.4 19.7 Modeled Total $ 8.7 $ 1.6 $ 7.6 $ .2 $18.1 (a) Indicated maturity is based on contract settlement or delivery date(s). (b) Includes all SFAS No. 133 hedge activity and non proprietary trading activities marked to market through Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or on the Statements of earnings, as required. (c) Prices provided by other external sources reflect information obtained from over the counter brokers, industry services, or multiple party on line platforms. Contractual Arrangements with Credit Rating Triggers or Margining Rights Under certain contractual arrangements entered into by PHIs subsidiaries in connection with Competitive Energy business and other transactions, the subsidiary may be required to provide cash collateral or letters of credit as security for its contractual obligations if the credit ratings of the subsidiary are downgraded. In the event of a downgrade, the amount required to be posted would depend on the amount of the underlying contractual obligation existing at the time of the downgrade. Based on contractual provisions in effect at December 31, 2007, PHI estimates that if a one level downgrade in the credit rating of PHI and each of its relevant subsidiaries were to occur, the additional aggregate cash collateral or letters of credit amount required would be $339.0 million. PHI believes that it and its utility subsidiaries maintain adequate short term funding sources in the event the additional collateral or letters of credit are required. See Sources of Capital Short Term Funding Sources. Many of the contractual arrangements entered into by PHIs subsidiaries in connection with Competitive Energy and Default Electricity Supply activities include margining rights pursuant to which the PHI subsidiary or a counterparty may request collateral if the market value of the contractual obligations reaches levels in excess of the credit thresholds established in the applicable arrangements. Pursuant to these margining rights, the affected PHI subsidiary may receive, or be required to post, collateral due to energy price movements. As of December 31, 81 2007, Pepco Holdings subsidiaries engaged in Competitive Energy activities and Default Electricity Supply activities provided net cash collateral in the amount of $91.2 million in connection with these activities. Environmental Remediation Obligations PHIs accrued liabilities as of December 31, 2007 include approximately $18.4 million, of which $5.7 million is expected to be incurred in 2008, for potential environmental cleanup and other costs related to sites at which an operating subsidiary is a potentially responsible party (PRP), is alleged to be a third party contributor, or has made a decision to clean up contamination on its own property. For information regarding projected expenditures for environmental control facilities, see Item 1 Business Environmental Matters. The most significant environmental remediation obligations as of December 31, 2007, were: $4.7 million, of which $1.2 million is expected to be incurred in 2008, payable by DPL in accordance with a 2001 consent agreement reached with the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, for remediation, site restoration, natural resource damage compensatory projects and other costs associated with environmental contamination that resulted from an oil release at the Indian River power plant, which was sold in June 2001. $4.9 million in environmental remediation costs, of which $1.3 million is expected to be incurred in 2008, payable by Conectiv Energy associated with the Deepwater generating facility. $3.8 million for environmental remediation costs related to former manufactured gas plant (MGP) operations at a Cambridge, Maryland site on DPL owned property, adjacent property and the adjacent Cambridge Creek, all of which is expected to be incurred in 2008. $1.7 million in connection with Pepcos liability for a remedy at the Metal Bank/Cottman Avenue site. $1.4 million, of which approximately $260,000 is expected to be incurred in 2008, payable by DPL in connection with the Wilmington Coal Gas South site located in Wilmington, Delaware, to remediate residual material from the historical operation of a manufactured gas plant. $735,000, of which approximately $65,000 is expected to be incurred in 2008, payable by Pepco for long term monitoring associated with a pipeline oil release that occurred in 2000. Sources of Capital Pepco Holdings sources to meet its long term funding needs, such as capital expenditures, dividends, and new investments, and its short term funding needs, such as working capital and the temporary funding of long term funding needs, include internally generated funds, securities issuances and bank financing under new or existing facilities. PHIs ability to generate funds from its operations and to access capital and credit markets is subject to risks and uncertainties. Volatile and deteriorating financial market conditions, diminished liquidity and 82 tightening credit may affect efficient access to certain of PHIs potential funding sources. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional discussion of important factors that may impact these sources of capital. Internally Generated Cash The primary source of Pepco Holdings internally generated funds is the cash flow generated by its regulated utility subsidiaries in the Power Delivery business. Additional sources of funds include cash flow generated from its non regulated subsidiaries and the sale of non core assets. Short Term Funding Sources Pepco Holdings and its regulated utility subsidiaries have traditionally used a number of sources to fulfill short term funding needs, such as commercial paper, short term notes and bank lines of credit. Proceeds from short term borrowings are used primarily to meet working capital needs but may also be used to fund temporarily long term capital requirements. Pepco Holdings maintains an ongoing commercial paper program of up to $875 million. Pepco, DPL, and ACE have ongoing commercial paper programs of up to $500 million, up to $275 million, and up to $250 million, respectively. The commercial paper can be issued with maturities of up to 270 days. PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE maintain a credit facility which supports the issuance of commercial paper and is available to provide for short term liquidity needs. The aggregate borrowing limit under the facility is $1.5 billion, all or any portion of which may be used to obtain loans or to issue letters of credit. PHIs credit limit under the facility is $875 million. The credit limit of each of Pepco, DPL and ACE is the lesser of $500 million and the maximum amount of debt the company is permitted to have outstanding by its regulatory authorities, except that the aggregate amount of credit used by Pepco, DPL and ACE at any given time collectively may not exceed $625 million. The interest rate payable by each company on utilized funds is based on the prevailing prime rate or Eurodollar rate, plus a margin that varies according to the credit rating of the borrower. The facility also includes a swingline loan sub facility, pursuant to which each company may make same day borrowings in an aggregate amount not to exceed $150 million. Any swingline loan must be repaid by the borrower within seven days of receipt thereof. All indebtedness incurred under the facility is unsecured. The facility commitment expiration date is May 5, 2012, with each company having the right to elect to have 100% of the principal balance of the loans outstanding on the expiration date continued as non revolving term loans for a period of one year from such expiration date. The facility is intended to serve primarily as a source of liquidity to support the commercial paper programs of the respective companies. The companies also are permitted to use the facility to borrow funds for general corporate purposes and issue letters of credit. In order for a borrower to use the facility, certain representations and warranties made by the borrower at the time the credit agreement was entered into also must be true at the time the facility is utilized, and the borrower must be in compliance with specified covenants, including the financial covenant described below. However, a material adverse change in the borrowers business, 83 property, and results of operations or financial condition subsequent to the entry into the credit agreement is not a condition to the availability of credit under the facility. Among the covenants to which each of the companies is subject are (i) the requirement that each borrowing company maintain a ratio of total indebtedness to total capitalization of 65% or less, computed in accordance with the terms of the credit agreement, which calculation excludes certain trust preferred securities and deferrable interest subordinated debt from the definition of total indebtedness (not to exceed 15% of total capitalization), (ii) a restriction on sales or other dispositions of assets, other than sales and dispositions permitted by the credit agreement, and (iii) a restriction on the incurrence of liens on the assets of a borrower or any of its significant subsidiaries other than liens permitted by the credit agreement. The credit agreement does not include any rating triggers. Long Term Funding Sources The sources of long term funding for PHI and its subsidiaries are the issuance of debt and equity securities and borrowing under long term credit agreements. Proceeds from long term financings are used primarily to fund long term capital requirements, such as capital expenditures and new investments, and to repay or refinance existing indebtedness. Regulatory Restrictions on Financing Activities The issuance of both debt and equity securities by the principal subsidiaries of PHI requires approval of either FERC or one or more state public utility commissions. Neither FERC approval nor state public utility commission approval is required as a condition to the issuance of securities by PHI. State Financing Authority Pepcos long term financing activities (including the issuance of securities and the incurrence of debt) are subject to authorization by the District of Columbia Public Service Commission (DCPSC) and MPSC. DPLs long term financing activities are subject to authorization by MPSC and the Delaware Public Service Commission (DPSC). ACEs long term and short term (consisting of debt instruments with a maturity of one year or less) financing activities are subject to authorization by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU). Each utility, through periodic filings with the state public service commission(s) having jurisdiction over its financing activities, typically maintains standing authority sufficient to cover its projected financing needs over a multi year period. FERC Financing Authority Under the Federal Power Act (FPA), FERC has jurisdiction over the issuance of long term and short term securities of public utilities, but only if the issuance is not regulated by the state public utility commission in which the public utility is organized and operating. Under these provisions, FERC has jurisdiction over the issuance of short term debt by Pepco and DPL. Because Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services also qualify as public utilities under the FPA and are not regulated by a state utility commission, FERC approval would be required for the issuance of securities by those companies. To the extent FERC approval is required for the issuance of securities by PHI and its subsidiaries, the companies, in accordance with regulations adopted by FERC, are relying on 84 authority granted in a financing order issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the repeal of Public Utility Holding Company Act 1935 (the Financing Order), which extends through June 30, 2008. Prior to June 30, 2008, PHIs utility subsidiaries will file for new financing authority for the issuance of securities for which FERC approval is required. Money Pool Under the Financing Order, Pepco Holdings is authorized to operate a system money pool. The money pool is a cash management mechanism used by Pepco Holdings to manage the short term investment and borrowing requirements of its subsidiaries that participate in the money pool. Pepco Holdings may invest in but not borrow from the money pool. Eligible subsidiaries with surplus cash may deposit those funds in the money pool. Deposits in the money pool are guaranteed by Pepco Holdings. Eligible subsidiaries with cash requirements may borrow from the money pool. Borrowings from the money pool are unsecured. Depositors in the money pool receive, and borrowers from the money pool pay, an interest rate based primarily on Pepco Holdings short term borrowing rate. Pepco Holdings deposits funds in the money pool to the extent that the pool has insufficient funds to meet the borrowing needs of its participants, which may require Pepco Holdings to borrow funds for deposit from external sources. After expiration of the Financing Order, PHI and its subsidiaries expect to engage in intra system cash management programs such as the money pool under a blanket authorization adopted by FERC. REGULATORY AND OTHER MATTERS Proceeds from Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims In 2000, Pepco sold substantially all of its electricity generating assets to Mirant. In 2003, Mirant commenced a voluntary bankruptcy proceeding in which it sought to reject certain obligations that it had undertaken in connection with the asset sale. As part of the asset sale, Pepco entered into the TPAs. Under a settlement to avoid the rejection by Mirant of its obligations under the TPAs in the bankruptcy proceeding, the terms of the TPAs were modified to increase the purchase price of the energy and capacity supplied by Mirant and Pepco received the TPA Claim. In December 2005, Pepco sold the TPA Claim, plus the right to receive accrued interest thereon, to an unaffiliated third party for $112.5 million. In addition, Pepco received proceeds of $.5 million in settlement of an asbestos claim against the Mirant bankruptcy estate. After customer sharing, Pepco recorded a pre tax gain of $70.5 million from the settlement of these claims. In connection with the asset sale, Pepco and Mirant also entered into a back to back arrangement, whereby Mirant agreed to purchase from Pepco the 230 megawatts of electricity and capacity that Pepco is obligated to purchase annually through 2021 from Panda under the Panda PPA at the purchase price Pepco is obligated to pay to Panda. As part of the further settlement of Pepcos claims against Mirant arising from the Mirant bankruptcy, Pepco agreed not to contest the rejection by Mirant of its obligations under the back to back arrangement in exchange for the payment by Mirant of damages corresponding to the estimated amount by which the purchase price that Pepco is obligated to pay Panda for the energy and capacity exceeded the market price. In 2007, Pepco received as damages $413.9 million in net proceeds from the sale of shares of Mirant common stock issued to it by Mirant. These funds are being accounted for as restricted cash based on managements intent to use such funds, and any interest 85 earned thereon, for the sole purpose of paying for the future above market capacity and energy purchase costs under the Panda PPA. Correspondingly, a regulatory liability has been established in the same amount to help offset the future above market capacity and energy purchase costs. This restricted cash has been classified as a non current asset to be consistent with the classification of the non current regulatory liability, and any changes in the balance of this restricted cash, including interest on the invested funds, are being accounted for as operating cash flows. As of December 31, 2007, the balance of the restricted cash account was $417.3 million. Based on a reexamination of the costs of the Panda PPA in light of current and projected wholesale market conditions conducted in the fourth quarter of 2007, Pepco determined that, principally due to increases in wholesale capacity prices, the present value above market cost of the Panda PPA over the term of the agreement is expected to be significantly less than the current amount of the restricted cash account balance. Accordingly, on February 22, 2008, Pepco filed applications with the DCPSC and the MPSC requesting orders directing Pepco to maintain $320 million in the restricted cash account and to use that cash, and any future earnings on the cash, for the sole purpose of paying the future above market cost of the Panda PPA (or, in the alternative, to fund a transfer or assignment of the remaining obligations under the Panda PPA to a third party). Pepco also requested that the order provide that any cash remaining in the account at the conclusion of the Panda PPA be refunded to customers and that any shortfall be recovered from customers. Pepco further proposed that the excess proceeds remaining from the settlement (approximately $94.6 million, representing the amount by which the regulatory liability of $414.6 million at December 31, 2007 exceeded $320 million) be shared approximately equally with its customers in accordance with the procedures previously approved by each commission for the sharing of the proceeds received by Pepco from the sale to Mirant of its generating assets. The regulatory liability of $414.6 million at December 31, 2007 differs from the restricted cash amount of $417.3 million on that date, in part, because the regulatory liability has been reduced for the portion of the December 2007 Panda charges in excess of market that had not yet been paid from the restricted cash account. The amount of the restricted cash balance that Pepco is permitted to retain will be recorded as earnings upon approval of the sharing arrangement by the respective commissions. At this time, Pepco cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. In settlement of other damages claims against Mirant, Pepco in 2007 also received a settlement payment in the amount of $70.0 million. Of this amount (i) $33.4 million was recorded as a reduction in operating expenses, (ii) $21.0 million was recorded as a reduction in a net pre petition receivable claim from Mirant, (iii) $15.0 million was recorded as a reduction in the capitalized costs of certain property, plant and equipment and (iv) $.6 million was recorded as a liability to reimburse a third party for certain legal costs associated with the settlement. Rate Proceedings In electric service distribution base rate cases filed by Pepco in the District of Columbia and Maryland, and by DPL in Maryland, and pending in 2007, Pepco and DPL proposed the adoption of a BSA for retail customers. Under the BSA, customer delivery rates are subject to adjustment (through a surcharge or credit mechanism), depending on whether actual distribution revenue per customer exceeds or falls short of the approved revenue per customer amount. The BSA will increase rates if actual distribution revenues fall below the level approved by the applicable commission and will decrease rates if actual distribution revenues are above the approved level. The result will be that, over time, the utility would collect its authorized 86 revenues for distribution deliveries. As a consequence, a BSA decouples revenue from unit sales consumption and ties the growth in revenues to the growth in the number of customers. Some advantages of the BSA are that it (i) eliminates revenue fluctuations due to weather and changes in customer usage patterns and, therefore, provides for more predictable utility distribution revenues that are better aligned with costs, (ii) provides for more reliable fixed cost recovery, (iii) tends to stabilize customers delivery bills, and (iv) removes any disincentives for the regulated utilities to promote energy efficiency programs for their customers, because it breaks the link between overall sales volumes and delivery revenues. The status of the BSA proposals in each of the jurisdictions is described below in discussion of the respective base rate proceedings. Delaware On September 4, 2007, DPL submitted its 2007 GCR filing to the DPSC. The GCR permits DPL to recover its gas procurement costs through customer rates. On September 18, 2007, the DPSC issued an initial order approving a 5.7% decrease in the level of the GCR, which became effective November 1, 2007, subject to refund and pending final DPSC approval after evidentiary hearings. District of Columbia In December 2006, Pepco submitted an application to the DCPSC to increase electric distribution base rates, including a proposed BSA. The application to the DCPSC requested an annual increase of approximately $46.2 million or an overall increase of 13.5%, reflecting a proposed return on equity (ROE) of 10.75%. In the alternative, the application requested an annual increase of $50.5 million or an overall increase of 14.8%, reflecting an ROE of 11.00%, if the BSA were not approved. Subsequently, Pepco reduced its annual revenue increase request to $43.4 million (including a proposed BSA) and $47.9 million (if the BSA were not approved). On January 30, 2008, the DCPSC approved a revenue requirement increase of approximately $28.3 million, based on an authorized return on rate base of 7.96%, including a 10% ROE. The rate increase is effective February 20, 2008. The DCPSC, while finding the BSA to be an appropriate ratemaking concept, cited potential statutory problems in the DCPSCs ability to implement the BSA. The DCPSC stated that it intends to issue an order to establish a Phase II proceeding to consider these implementation issues. Maryland On July 19, 2007, the MPSC issued orders in the electric service distribution rate cases filed by DPL and Pepco, each of which included approval of a BSA. The DPL order approved an annual increase in distribution rates of approximately $14.9 million (including a decrease in annual depreciation expense of approximately $.9 million). The Pepco order approved an annual increase in distribution rates of approximately $10.6 million (including a decrease in annual depreciation expense of approximately $30.7 million). In each case, the approved distribution rate reflects an ROE of 10.0%. The orders each provided that the rate increases are effective as of June 16, 2007, and will remain in effect for an initial period of nine months from the date of the order (or until April 19, 2008). These rates are subject to a Phase II proceeding in which the MPSC will consider the results of audits of each companys cost allocation manual, as filed with 87 the MPSC, to determine whether a further adjustment to the rates is required. Hearings for the Phase II proceeding are scheduled for mid March 2008. New Jersey On June 1, 2007, ACE filed with the NJBPU an application for permission to decrease the Non Utility Generation Charge (NGC) and increase components of its Societal Benefits Charge (SBC) to be collected from customers for the period October 1, 2007 through September 30, 2008. The proposed changes are designed to effect a true up of the actual and estimated costs and revenues collected through the current NGC and SBC rates through September 30, 2007 and, in the case of the SBC, forecasted costs and revenues for the period October 1, 2007 through September 30, 2008. As of December 31, 2007, the NGC, which is intended primarily to recover the above market component of payments made by ACE under non utility generation contracts and stranded costs associated with those commitments, had an over recovery balance of $224.3 million. The filing proposed that the estimated NGC balance as of September 30, 2007 in the amount of $216.2 million, including interest, be amortized and returned to ACE customers over a four year period, beginning October 1, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, the SBC, which is intended to allow ACE to recover certain costs involved with various NJBPU mandated social programs, had an under recovery of approximately $20.9 million, primarily due to increased costs associated with funding the New Jersey Clean Energy Program. In addition, ACE has requested an increase to the SBC to reflect the funding levels approved by the NJBPU of $20.4 million for the period October 1, 2007 through September 30, 2008, bringing to $40 million the total recovery requested for the period October 1, 2007 to September 30, 2008 (based upon actual data through August 2007). The net impact of the proposed adjustments to the NGC and the SBC, including associated changes in sales and use tax, is an overall rate decrease of approximately $129.9 million for the period October 1, 2007 through September 30, 2008 (based upon actual data through August 2007). The proposed adjustments and the corresponding changes in customer rates are subject to the approval of the NJBPU. If approved and implemented, ACE anticipates that the revised rates will remain in effect until September 30, 2008, subject to an annual true up and change each year thereafter. The proposed adjustments and the corresponding changes in customer rates remain under review by the NJBPU and have not yet been implemented. ACE Restructuring Deferral Proceeding Pursuant to orders issued by the NJBPU under the New Jersey Electric Discount and Energy Competition Act (EDECA), beginning August 1, 1999, ACE was obligated to provide BGS to retail electricity customers in its service territory who did not elect to purchase electricity from a competitive supplier. For the period August 1, 1999 through July 31, 2003, ACEs aggregate costs that it was allowed to recover from customers exceeded its aggregate revenues from supplying BGS. These under recovered costs were partially offset by a $59.3 million deferred energy cost liability existing as of July 31, 1999 (LEAC Liability) related to ACEs Levelized Energy Adjustment Clause and ACEs Demand Side Management Programs. ACE established a regulatory asset in an amount equal to the balance of under recovered costs. 88 In August 2002, ACE filed a petition with the NJBPU for the recovery of approximately $176.4 million in actual and projected deferred costs relating to the provision of BGS and other restructuring related costs incurred by ACE over the four year period August 1, 1999 through July 31, 2003, net of the $59.3 million offset for the LEAC Liability. The petition also requested that ACEs rates be reset as of August 1, 2003 so that there would be no under recovery of costs embedded in the rates on or after that date. The increase sought represented an overall 8.4% annual increase in electric rates. In July 2004, the NJBPU issued a final order in the restructuring deferral proceeding confirming a July 2003 summary order, which (i) permitted ACE to begin collecting a portion of the deferred costs and reset rates to recover on going costs incurred as a result of EDECA, (ii) approved the recovery of $125 million of the deferred balance over a ten year amortization period beginning August 1, 2003, (iii) transferred to ACEs then pending base rate case for further consideration approximately $25.4 million of the deferred balance (the base rate case ended in a settlement approved by the NJBPU in May 2005, the result of which is that any net rate impact from the deferral account recoveries and credits in future years will depend in part on whether rates associated with other deferred accounts considered in the case continue to generate over collections relative to costs), and (iv) estimated the overall deferral balance as of July 31, 2003 at $195.0 million, of which $44.6 million was disallowed recovery by ACE. Although ACE believes the record does not justify the level of disallowance imposed by the NJBPU in the final order, the $44.6 million of disallowed incurred costs were reserved during the years 1999 through 2003 (primarily 2003) through charges to earnings, primarily in the operating expense line item deferred electric service costs, with a corresponding reduction in the regulatory asset balance sheet account. In 2005, an additional $1.2 million in interest on the disallowed amount was identified and reserved by ACE. In August 2004, ACE filed a notice of appeal with respect to the July 2004 final order with the Appellate Division of the Superior Court of New Jersey (the Appellate Division), which hears appeals of the decisions of New Jersey administrative agencies, including the NJBPU. On August 9, 2007, the Appellate Division, citing deference to the factual and policy findings of the NJBPU, affirmed the NJBPUs decision in its entirety, rejecting challenges from ACE and the Division of Rate Counsel. On September 10, 2007, ACE filed an application for certification to the New Jersey Supreme Court. On January 15, 2008, the New Jersey Supreme Court denied ACEs application for certification. Because the full amount at issue in this proceeding was previously reserved by ACE, there will be no further financial statement impact to ACE. Divestiture Cases District of Columbia Final briefs on Pepcos District of Columbia divestiture proceeds sharing application were filed with the DCPSC in July 2002 following an evidentiary hearing in June 2002. That application was filed to implement a provision of Pepcos DCPSC approved divestiture settlement that provided for a sharing of any net proceeds from the sale of Pepcos generation related assets. One of the principal issues in the case is whether Pepco should be required to share with customers the excess deferred income taxes (EDIT) and accumulated deferred investment tax credits (ADITC) associated with the sold assets and, if so, whether such sharing would violate the normalization provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) and its implementing regulations. As of December 31, 2007, the District of Columbia allocated portions 89 of EDIT and ADITC associated with the divested generating assets were approximately $6.5 million and $5.8 million, respectively. Pepco believes that a sharing of EDIT and ADITC would violate the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) normalization rules. Under these rules, Pepco could not transfer the EDIT and the ADITC benefit to customers more quickly than on a straight line basis over the book life of the related assets. Since the assets are no longer owned by Pepco, there is no book life over which the EDIT and ADITC can be returned. If Pepco were required to share EDIT and ADITC and, as a result, the normalization rules were violated, Pepco would be unable to use accelerated depreciation on District of Columbia allocated or assigned property. In addition to sharing with customers the generation related EDIT and ADITC balances, Pepco would have to pay to the IRS an amount equal to Pepcos District of Columbia jurisdictional generation related ADITC balance ($5.8 million as of December 31, 2007), as well as its District of Columbia jurisdictional transmission and distribution related ADITC balance ($4.0 million as of December 31, 2007) in each case as those balances exist as of the later of the date a DCPSC order is issued and all rights to appeal have been exhausted or lapsed, or the date the DCPSC order becomes operative. In March 2003, the IRS issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (NOPR), which would allow for the sharing of EDIT and ADITC related to divested assets with utility customers on a prospective basis and at the election of the taxpayer on a retroactive basis. In December 2005 a revised NOPR was issued which, among other things, withdrew the March 2003 NOPR and eliminated the taxpayers ability to elect to apply the regulation retroactively. Comments on the revised NOPR were filed in March 2006, and a public hearing was held in April 2006. Pepco filed a letter with the DCPSC in January 2006, in which it has reiterated that the DCPSC should continue to defer any decision on the ADITC and EDIT issues until the IRS issues final regulations or states that its regulations project related to this issue will be terminated without the issuance of any regulations. Other issues in the divestiture proceeding deal with the treatment of internal costs and cost allocations as deductions from the gross proceeds of the divestiture. Pepco believes that its calculation of the District of Columbia customers share of divestiture proceeds is correct. However, depending on the ultimate outcome of this proceeding, Pepco could be required to make additional gain sharing payments to District of Columbia customers, including the payments described above related to EDIT and ADITC. Such additional payments (which, other than the EDIT and ADITC related payments, cannot be estimated) would be charged to expense in the quarter and year in which a final decision is rendered and could have a material adverse effect on Pepcos and PHIs results of operations for those periods. However, neither PHI nor Pepco believes that additional gain sharing payments, if any, or the ADITC related payments to the IRS, if required, would have a material adverse impact on its financial position or cash flows. Maryland Pepco filed its divestiture proceeds plan application with the MPSC in April 2001. The principal issue in the Maryland case is the same EDIT and ADITC sharing issue that has been raised in the District of Columbia case. See the discussion above under Divestiture Cases District of Columbia. As of December 31, 2007, the Maryland allocated portions of EDIT and ADITC associated with the divested generating assets were approximately $9.1 million and $10.4 million, respectively. Other issues deal with the treatment of certain costs as deductions from the gross proceeds of the divestiture. In November 2003, the Hearing Examiner in the 90 Maryland proceeding issued a proposed order with respect to the application that concluded that Pepcos Maryland divestiture settlement agreement provided for a sharing between Pepco and customers of the EDIT and ADITC associated with the sold assets. Pepco believes that such a sharing would violate the normalization rules (discussed above) and would result in Pepcos inability to use accelerated depreciation on Maryland allocated or assigned property. If the proposed order is affirmed, Pepco would have to share with its Maryland customers, on an approximately 50/50 basis, the Maryland allocated portion of the generation related EDIT ($9.1 million as of December 31, 2007), and the Maryland allocated portion of generation related ADITC. Furthermore, Pepco would have to pay to the IRS an amount equal to Pepcos Maryland jurisdictional generation related ADITC balance ($10.4 million as of December 31, 2007), as well as its Maryland retail jurisdictional ADITC transmission and distribution related balance ($7.2 million as of December 31, 2007), in each case as those balances exist as of the later of the date a MPSC order is issued and all rights to appeal have been exhausted or lapsed, or the date the MPSC order becomes operative. The Hearing Examiner decided all other issues in favor of Pepco, except for the determination that only one half of the severance payments that Pepco included in its calculation of corporate reorganization costs should be deducted from the sales proceeds before sharing of the net gain between Pepco and customers. Pepco filed a letter with the MPSC in January 2006, in which it has reiterated that the MPSC should continue to defer any decision on the ADITC and EDIT issues until the IRS issues final regulations or states that its regulations project related to this issue will be terminated without the issuance of any regulations. In December 2003, Pepco appealed the Hearing Examiners decision to the MPSC as it relates to the treatment of EDIT and ADITC and corporate reorganization costs. The MPSC has not issued any ruling on the appeal and Pepco does not believe that it will do so until action is taken by the IRS as described above. However, depending on the ultimate outcome of this proceeding, Pepco could be required to share with its customers approximately 50 percent of the EDIT and ADITC balances described above in addition to the additional gain sharing payments relating to the disallowed severance payments. Such additional payments would be charged to expense in the quarter and year in which a final decision is rendered and could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for those periods. However, neither PHI nor Pepco believes that additional gain sharing payments, if any, or the ADITC related payments to the IRS, if required, would have a material adverse impact on its financial position or cash flows. New Jersey In connection with the divestiture by ACE of its nuclear generating assets, the NJBPU in July 2000 preliminarily determined that the amount of stranded costs associated with the divested assets that ACE could recover from ratepayers should be reduced by approximately $94.8 million, consisting of $54.1 million of accumulated deferred federal income taxes (ADFIT) associated with accelerated depreciation on the divested nuclear assets, and $40.7 million of current tax loss from selling the assets at a price below the tax basis. The $54.1 million in deferred taxes associated with the divested assets accelerated depreciation, however, is subject to the normalization rules. Due to uncertainty under federal tax law regarding whether the sharing of federal income tax benefits associated with the divested assets, including ADFIT related to accelerated depreciation, with ACEs customers would violate the normalization rules, ACE submitted a request to the IRS for a Private Letter Ruling 91 (PLR) to clarify the applicable law. The NJBPU delayed its final determination of the amount of recoverable stranded costs until after the receipt of the PLR. On May 25, 2006, the IRS issued the PLR in which it stated that returning to ratepayers any of the unamortized ADFIT attributable to accelerated depreciation on the divested assets after the sale of the assets by means of a reduction of the amount of recoverable stranded costs would violate the normalization rules. On June 9, 2006, ACE submitted a letter to the NJBPU, requesting that the NJBPU conduct proceedings to finalize the determination of the stranded costs associated with the sale of ACEs nuclear assets in accordance with the PLR. In the absence of an NJBPU action regarding ACEs request, on June 22, 2007, ACE filed a motion requesting that the NJBPU issue an order finalizing the determination of such stranded costs in accordance with the PLR. On October 24, 2007, the NJBPU approved a stipulation resolving the ADFIT issue and issued a clarifying order, which concludes that the $94.8 million in stranded cost reduction, including the $54.1 million in ADFIT, does not violate the IRS normalization rules. In explaining this result, the NJBPU stated that (i) its earlier orders determining ACEs recoverable stranded costs net of tax did not cause ADFIT associated with certain divested nuclear assets to reduce stranded costs otherwise recoverable from ACEs ratepayers, and (ii) because the Market Transition Charge Tax component of the stranded cost recovery was intended by the NJBPU to gross up net of tax stranded costs, thereby ensuring and establishing that the ADFIT balance was not flowed through to ratepayers, the normalization rules were not violated. Default Electricity Supply Proceedings Virginia In June 2007, the Virginia State Corporation Commission (VSCC) denied DPLs request for an increase in its rates for Default Service for the period July 1, 2007 to May 31, 2008. DPL appealed in both state and federal courts. Those appeals have been dismissed in light of the closing of the sale of DPLs Virginia electric operations as described below under the heading DPL Sale of Virginia Operations. ACE Sale of B.L. England Generating Facility On February 8, 2007, ACE completed the sale of the B.L. England generating facility to RC Cape May Holdings, LLC (RC Cape May), an affiliate of Rockland Capital Energy Investments, LLC, for which it received proceeds of approximately $9 million. At the time of the sale, RC Cape May and ACE agreed to submit to arbitration the issue of whether RC Cape May, under the terms of the purchase agreement, must pay to ACE an additional $3.1 million as part of the purchase price. On February 26, 2008, the arbitrators issued a decision awarding $3.1 million to ACE, plus interest, attorneys fees and costs, for a total award of approximately $4.2 million. On July 18, 2007, ACE received a claim for indemnification from RC Cape May under the purchase agreement. RC Cape May contends that one of the assets it purchased, a contract for terminal services (TSA) between ACE and Citgo Asphalt Refining Co. (Citgo), has been declared by Citgo to have been terminated due to a failure by ACE to renew the contract in a timely manner. RC Cape May has commenced an arbitration proceeding against Citgo seeking a determination that the TSA remains in effect and has notified ACE of the proceeding. In 92 addition, RC Cape May has asserted a claim for indemnification from ACE in the amount of $25 million if the TSA is held not to be enforceable against Citgo. While ACE believes that it has defenses to the indemnification under the terms of the purchase agreement, should the arbitrator rule that the TSA has terminated, the outcome of this matter is uncertain. ACE notified RC Cape May of its intent to participate in the pending arbitration. The sale of B.L. England will not affect the stranded costs associated with the plant that already have been securitized. ACE anticipates that approximately $9 million to $10 million of additional regulatory assets related to B.L. England may, subject to NJBPU approval, be eligible for recovery as stranded costs. Approximately $47 million in emission allowance credits associated with B. L. England were monetized for the benefit of ACEs ratepayers pursuant to the NJBPU order approving the sale. Net proceeds from the sale of the plant and monetization of the emission allowance credits, estimated to be $32.2 million as of December 31, 2007, will be credited to ACEs ratepayers in accordance with the requirements of EDECA and NJBPU orders. The appropriate mechanism for crediting the net proceeds from the sale of the plant and the monetized emission allowance credits to ratepayers is being determined in a proceeding that is currently pending before the NJBPU. DPL Sale of Virginia Operations On January 2, 2008, DPL completed (i) the sale of its retail electric distribution business on the Eastern Shore of Virginia to A&N Electric Cooperative (A&N) for a purchase price of approximately $45.2 million, after closing adjustments, and (ii) the sale of its wholesale electric transmission business located on the Eastern Shore of Virginia to Old Dominion Electric Cooperative (ODEC) for a purchase price of approximately $5.4 million, after closing adjustments. Each of A&N and ODEC assumed certain post closing liabilities and unknown pre closing liabilities related to the respective assets they are purchasing (including, in the A&N transaction, most environmental liabilities), except that DPL remained liable for unknown pre closing liabilities if they become known within six months after the January 2, 2008 closing date. These sales are expected to result in an immaterial financial gain to DPL that will be recorded in the first quarter of 2008. Pepco Energy Services Deactivation of Power Plants Pepco Energy Services owns and operates two oil fired power plants. The power plants are located in Washington, D.C. and have a generating capacity rating of approximately 790 MW. Pepco Energy Services sells the output of these plants into the wholesale market administered by PJM. In February 2007, Pepco Energy Services provided notice to PJM of its intention to deactivate these plants. In May 2007, Pepco Energy Services deactivated one combustion turbine at its Buzzard Point facility with a generating capacity of approximately 16 MW. Pepco Energy Services currently plans to deactivate the balance of both plants by May 2012. PJM has informed Pepco Energy Services that these facilities are not expected to be needed for reliability after that time, but that its evaluation is dependent on the completion of transmission upgrades. Pepco Energy Services timing for deactivation of these units, in whole or in part, may be accelerated or delayed based on the operating condition of the units, economic conditions, and reliability considerations. Prior to deactivation of the plants, Pepco Energy Services may incur deficiency charges imposed by PJM at a rate up to two times the capacity payment price that the plants receive. Deactivation is not expected to have a material impact on PHIs financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 93 General Litigation During 1993, Pepco was served with Amended Complaints filed in the state Circuit Courts of Prince Georges County, Baltimore City and Baltimore County, Maryland in separate ongoing, consolidated proceedings known as In re: Personal Injury Asbestos Case. Pepco and other corporate entities were brought into these cases on a theory of premises liability. Under this theory, the plaintiffs argued that Pepco was negligent in not providing a safe work environment for employees or its contractors, who allegedly were exposed to asbestos while working on Pepcos property. Initially, a total of approximately 448 individual plaintiffs added Pepco to their complaints. While the pleadings are not entirely clear, it appears that each plaintiff sought $2 million in compensatory damages and $4 million in punitive damages from each defendant. Since the initial filings in 1993, additional individual suits have been filed against Pepco, and significant numbers of cases have been dismissed. As a result of two motions to dismiss, numerous hearings and meetings and one motion for summary judgment, Pepco has had approximately 400 of these cases successfully dismissed with prejudice, either voluntarily by the plaintiff or by the court. As of December 31, 2007, there are approximately 180 cases still pending against Pepco in the State Courts of Maryland, of which approximately 90 cases were filed after December 19, 2000, and were tendered to Mirant for defense and indemnification pursuant to the terms of the Asset Purchase and Sale Agreement between Pepco and Mirant under which Pepco sold its generation assets to Mirant in 2000. While the aggregate amount of monetary damages sought in the remaining suits (excluding those tendered to Mirant) is approximately $360 million, PHI and Pepco believe the amounts claimed by current plaintiffs are greatly exaggerated. The amount of total liability, if any, and any related insurance recovery cannot be determined at this time; however, based on information and relevant circumstances known at this time, neither PHI nor Pepco believes these suits will have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, if an unfavorable decision were rendered against Pepco, it could have a material adverse effect on Pepcos and PHIs financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Cash Balance Plan Litigation In 1999, Conectiv established a cash balance retirement plan to replace defined benefit retirement plans then maintained by ACE and DPL. Following the acquisition by Pepco of Conectiv, this plan became the Conectiv Cash Balance Sub Plan within the PHI Retirement Plan. In September 2005, three management employees of PHI Service Company filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware (the Delaware District Court) against the PHI Retirement Plan, PHI and Conectiv (the PHI Parties), alleging violations of ERISA, on behalf of a class of management employees who did not have enough age and service when the Cash Balance Sub Plan was implemented in 1999 to assure that their accrued benefits would be calculated pursuant to the terms of the predecessor plans sponsored by ACE and DPL. A fourth plaintiff was added to the case to represent DPL legacy employees who were not eligible for grandfathered benefits. The plaintiffs challenged the design of the Cash Balance Sub Plan and sought a declaratory judgment that the Cash Balance Sub Plan was invalid and that the accrued benefits of 94 each member of the class should be calculated pursuant to the terms of the predecessor plans. Specifically, the complaint alleged that the use of a variable rate to compute the plaintiffs accrued benefit under the Cash Balance Sub Plan resulted in reductions in the accrued benefits that violated ERISA. The complaint also alleged that the benefit accrual rates and the minimal accrual requirements of the Cash Balance Sub Plan violated ERISA as did the notice that was given to plan participants upon implementation of the Cash Balance Sub Plan. On September 19, 2007, the Delaware District Court issued an order granting summary judgment in favor of the PHI Parties. On October 12, 2007, the plaintiffs filed an appeal of the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. If the plaintiffs were to prevail in this litigation, the ABO and projected benefit obligation (PBO) calculated in accordance with SFAS No. 87 each would increase by approximately $12 million, assuming no change in benefits for persons who have already retired or whose employment has been terminated and using actuarial valuation data as of the time the suit was filed. The ABO represents the present value that participants have earned as of the date of calculation. This means that only service already worked and compensation already earned and paid is considered. The PBO is similar to the ABO, except that the PBO includes recognition of the effect that estimated future pay increases would have on the pension plan obligation. Environmental Litigation PHI, through its subsidiaries, is subject to regulation by various federal, regional, state, and local authorities with respect to the environmental effects of its operations, including air and water quality control, solid and hazardous waste disposal, and limitations on land use. In addition, federal and state statutes authorize governmental agencies to compel responsible parties to clean up certain abandoned or unremediated hazardous waste sites. PHIs subsidiaries may incur costs to clean up currently or formerly owned facilities or sites found to be contaminated, as well as other facilities or sites that may have been contaminated due to past disposal practices. Although penalties assessed for violations of environmental laws and regulations are not recoverable from customers of the operating utilities, environmental clean up costs incurred by Pepco, DPL and ACE would be included by each company in its respective cost of service for ratemaking purposes. Cambridge, Maryland Site. In July 2004, DPL entered into an administrative consent order (ACO) with the Maryland Department of the Environment (MDE) to perform a Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study (RI/FS) to further identify the extent of soil, sediment and ground and surface water contamination related to former MGP operations at a Cambridge, Maryland site on DPL owned property and to investigate the extent of MGP contamination on adjacent property. The MDE has approved the RI and DPL submitted a final FS to MDE on February 15, 2007. No further MDE action is required with respect to the final FS. The costs of cleanup (as determined by the RI/FS and subsequent negotiations with MDE) are anticipated to be approximately $3.8 million. The remedial action to be taken by DPL will include dredging activities within Cambridge Creek, which are expected to commence in March 2008, and soil excavation on DPLs and adjacent property as early as August 2008. The final cleanup costs will include protective measures to control contaminant migration during the dredging activities and improvements to the existing shoreline. 95 Delilah Road Landfill Site. In November 1991, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) identified ACE as a PRP at the Delilah Road Landfill site in Egg Harbor Township, New Jersey. In 1993, ACE, along with other PRPs, signed an ACO with NJDEP to remediate the site. The soil cap remedy for the site has been implemented and in August 2006, NJDEP issued a No Further Action Letter (NFA) and Covenant Not to Sue for the site. Among other things, the NFA requires the PRPs to monitor the effectiveness of institutional (deed restriction) and engineering (cap) controls at the site every two years. In September 2007, NJDEP approved the PRP groups petition to conduct semi annual, rather than quarterly, ground water monitoring for two years and deferred until the end of the two year period a decision on the PRP groups request for annual groundwater monitoring thereafter. In August 2007, the PRP group agreed to reimburse the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys (EPAs) costs in the amount of $81,400 in full satisfaction of EPAs claims for all past and future response costs relating to the site (of which ACEs share is one third) and in October 2007, EPA and the PRP group entered into a tolling agreement to permit the parties sufficient time to execute a final settlement agreement. This settlement agreement will allow EPA to reopen the settlement in the event of new information or unknown conditions at the site. Based on information currently available, ACE anticipates that its share of additional cost associated with this site for post remedy operation and maintenance will be approximately $555,000 to $600,000. ACE believes that its liability for post remedy operation and maintenance costs will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Frontier Chemical Site. On June 29, 2007, ACE received a letter from the New York Department of Environmental Conservation (NYDEC) identifying ACE as a PRP at the Frontier Chemical Waste Processing Company site in Niagara Falls, N.Y. based on hazardous waste manifests indicating that ACE sent in excess of 7,500 gallons of manifested hazardous waste to the site. ACE has entered into an agreement with the other parties identified as PRPs to form the PRP group and has informed NYDEC that it has entered into good faith negotiations with the PRP group to address ACEs responsibility at the site. ACE believes that its responsibility at the site will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Carolina Transformer Site. In August 2006, EPA notified each of DPL and Pepco that they have been identified as entities that sent PCB laden oil to be disposed at the Carolina Transformer site in Fayetteville, North Carolina. The EPA notification stated that, on this basis, DPL and Pepco may be PRPs. In December 2007, DPL and Pepco agreed to enter into a settlement agreement with EPA and the PRP group at the Carolina Transformer site. Under the terms of the settlement, (i) Pepco and DPL each will pay $162,000 to EPA to resolve any liability that it might have at the site, (ii) EPA covenants not to sue or bring administrative action against DPL and Pepco for response costs at the site, (iii) other PRP group members release all rights for cost recovery or contribution claims they may have against DPL and Pepco, and (iv) DPL and Pepco release all rights for cost recovery or contribution claims that they may have against other parties settling with EPA. The consent decree is expected to be filed with the U.S. District Court in North Carolina in the second quarter of 2008. Deepwater Generating Station. On December 27, 2005, NJDEP issued a Title V Operating Permit for Conectiv Energys Deepwater Generating Station. The permit includes new limits on unit heat input. In order to comply with these new operational limits, Conectiv Energy restricted the output of the Deepwater Generating Stations Unit 1 and Unit 6. In 2006 and the first half of 2007, these restrictions resulted in operating losses of approximately $10,000 96 per operating day on Unit 6, primarily because of lost revenues due to reduced output, and to a lesser degree because of lost revenues related to capacity requirements of PJM. Since June 1, 2007, Deepwater Unit 6 can operate within the heat input limits set forth in the Title V Operating Permit without restricting output, because of technical improvements that partially corrected the inherent bias in the continuous emissions monitoring system that had caused recorded heat input to be higher than actual heat input. In order to comply with the heat input limit at Deepwater Unit 1, Conectiv Energy continues to restrict Unit 1 output, resulting in operating losses of approximately $500,000 in the second half of 2007 and projected operating losses in 2008 of approximately $500,000, due to penalties and lost revenues related to PJM capacity requirements. Beyond 2008, while penalties due to PJM capacity requirements are not expected, further operating losses due to lost revenues related to PJM capacity requirements may continue to be incurred. The operating losses due to reduced output on Unit 1 have been, and are expected to continue to be, insignificant. Conectiv Energy is challenging these heat input restrictions and other provisions of the Title V Operating Permit for Deepwater Generating Station in the New Jersey Office of Administrative Law (OAL). On October 2, 2007, the OAL issued a decision granting summary decision in favor of Conectiv Energy, finding that hourly heat input shall not be used as a condition or limit for Conectiv Energys electric generating operations. On October 26, 2007, the NJDEP Commissioner denied NJDEPs request for interlocutory review of the OAL order and determined that the Commissioner would review the October 2, 2007 order upon completion of the proceeding on Conectiv Energys other challenges to the Deepwater Title V permit. A hearing on the remaining challenged Title V permit provisions is scheduled for mid April 2008. On April 3, 2007, NJDEP issued an Administrative Order and Notice of Civil Administrative Penalty Assessment (the First Order) alleging that at Conectiv Energys Deepwater Generating Station, the maximum gross heat input to Unit 1 exceeded the maximum allowable heat input in calendar year 2005 and the maximum gross heat input to Unit 6 exceeded the maximum allowable heat input in calendar years 2005 and 2006. The order required the cessation of operation of Units 1 and 6 above the alleged permitted heat input levels, assessed a penalty of approximately $1.1 million and requested that Conectiv Energy provide additional information about heat input to Units 1 and 6. Conectiv Energy provided NJDEP Units 1 and 6 calendar year 2004 heat input data on May 9, 2007, and calendar years 1995 to 2003 heat input data on July 10, 2007. On May 23, 2007, NJDEP issued a second Administrative Order and Notice of Civil Administrative Penalty Assessment (the Second Order) alleging that the maximum gross heat input to Units 1 and 6 exceeded the maximum allowable heat input in calendar year 2004. The Second Order required the cessation of operation of Units 1 and 6 above the alleged permitted heat input levels and assessed a penalty of $811,600. Conectiv Energy has requested a contested case hearing challenging the issuance of the First Order and the Second Order and moved for a stay of the orders pending resolution of the Title V Operating Permit contested case described above. On November 29, 2007, the OAL issued orders placing the First Order and the Second Order on the inactive list for six months. Until the OAL decision discussed above is final, it will not have an impact on these currently inactive enforcement cases. IRS Examination of Like Kind Exchange Transaction In 2001, Conectiv and certain of its subsidiaries (the Conectiv Group) were engaged in the implementation of a strategy to divest non strategic electric generating facilities and replace these facilities with mid merit electric generating capacity. As part of this strategy, the Conectiv Group exchanged its interests in two older coal fired plants for the more efficient gas fired Hay 97 Road II generating facility, which was owned by an unaffiliated third party. For tax purposes, Conectiv treated the transaction as a like kind exchange under IRC Section 1031. As a result, approximately $88 million of taxable gain was deferred for federal income tax purposes. The transaction was examined by the IRS as part of the normal Conectiv tax audit. In May 2006, the IRS issued a revenue agents report (RAR) for the audit of Conectivs 2000, 2001 and 2002 income tax returns, in which the IRS disallowed the qualification of the exchange under IRC Section 1031. In July 2006, Conectiv filed a protest of this disallowance to the IRS Office of Appeals. PHI believes that its tax position related to this transaction is proper based on applicable statutes, regulations and case law and is contesting the disallowance. However, there is no absolute assurance that Conectivs position will prevail. If the IRS prevails, Conectiv would be subject to additional income taxes, interest and possible penalties. However, a portion of the denied benefit would be offset by additional tax depreciation. PHI has accrued approximately $4.9 million related to this matter. As of December 31, 2007, if the IRS were to fully prevail, the potential cash impact on PHI would be current income tax and interest payments of approximately $31.2 million and the earnings impact would be approximately $9.8 million in after tax interest. Federal Tax Treatment of Cross Border Leases PCI maintains a portfolio of cross border energy sale leaseback transactions, which, as of December 31, 2007, had a book value of approximately $1.4 billion, and from which PHI currently derives approximately $60 million per year in tax benefits in the form of interest and depreciation deductions. In 2005, the Treasury Department and IRS issued Notice 2005 13 informing taxpayers that the IRS intends to challenge on various grounds the purported tax benefits claimed by taxpayers entering into certain sale leaseback transactions with tax indifferent parties (i.e., municipalities, tax exempt and governmental entities), including those entered into on or prior to March 12, 2004 (the Notice). All of PCIs cross border energy leases are with tax indifferent parties and were entered into prior to 2004. Also in 2005, the IRS published a Coordinated Issue Paper concerning the resolution of audit issues related to such transactions. PCIs cross border energy leases are similar to those sale leaseback transactions described in the Notice and the Coordinated Issue Paper. PCIs leases have been under examination by the IRS as part of the normal PHI tax audit. In 2006, the IRS issued its final RAR for its audit of PHIs 2001 and 2002 income tax returns. In the RAR, the IRS disallowed the tax benefits claimed by PHI with respect to these leases for those years. The tax benefits claimed by PHI with respect to these leases from 2001 through December 31, 2007 were approximately $347 million. PHI has filed a protest against the IRS adjustments and the unresolved audit has been forwarded to the U.S. Office of Appeals. The ultimate outcome of this issue is uncertain; however, if the IRS prevails, PHI would be subject to additional taxes, along with interest and possibly penalties on the additional taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on PHIs financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. PHI believes that its tax position related to these transactions was appropriate based on 98 applicable statutes, regulations and case law, and intends to contest the adjustments proposed by the IRS; however, there is no assurance that PHIs position will prevail. In 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) on Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) 13 2, which amends SFAS No. 13 effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. This amendment requires a lease to be repriced and the book value adjusted when there is a change or probable change in the timing of tax benefits of the lease, regardless of whether the change results in a deferral or permanent loss of tax benefits. Accordingly, a material change in the timing of cash flows under PHIs cross border leases as the result of a settlement with the IRS would require an adjustment to the book value of the leases and a charge to earnings equal to the repricing impact of the disallowed deductions which could result in a material adverse effect on PHIs financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. PHI believes its tax position was appropriate and at this time does not believe there is a probable change in the timing of its tax benefits that would require repricing the leases and a charge to earnings. On December 14, 2007 the U.S. Senate passed its version of the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act of 2007 (H.R. 2419), which contains a provision that would apply passive loss limitation rules to leases with foreign tax indifferent parties effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2006, even if the leases were entered into on or prior to March 12, 2004. The U.S. House of Representatives version of this proposed legislation which it passed on July 27, 2007 does not contain any provision that would modify the current treatment of leases with tax indifferent parties. Enactment into law of a bill that is similar to that passed by the U.S. Senate in its current form could result in a material delay of the income tax benefits that PHI would receive in connection with its cross border energy leases. Furthermore, if legislation of this type were to be enacted, under FSP FAS 13 2, PHI would be required to adjust the book value of the leases and record a charge to earnings equal to the repricing impact of the deferred deductions which could result in a material adverse effect on PHIs financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate are expected to hold a conference in the near future to reconcile the differences in the two bills to determine the final legislation. IRS Mixed Service Cost Issue During 2001, Pepco, DPL, and ACE changed their methods of accounting with respect to capitalizable construction costs for income tax purposes. The change allowed the companies to accelerate the deduction of certain expenses that were previously capitalized and depreciated. Through December 31, 2005, these accelerated deductions generated incremental tax cash flow benefits of approximately $205 million (consisting of $94 million for Pepco, $62 million for DPL, and $49 million for ACE) for the companies, primarily attributable to their 2001 tax returns. In 2005, the Treasury Department released proposed regulations that, if adopted in their current form, would require Pepco, DPL, and ACE to change their method of accounting with respect to capitalizable construction costs for income tax purposes for tax periods beginning in 2005. Based on those proposed regulations, PHI in its 2005 federal tax return adopted an alternative method of accounting for capitalizable construction costs that management believes will be acceptable to the IRS. 99 At the same time as the new proposed regulations were released, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 2005 53, which is intended to limit the ability of certain taxpayers to utilize the method of accounting for income tax purposes for 2004 and prior years with respect to capitalizable construction costs. In line with this Revenue Ruling, the IRS RAR for the 2001 and 2002 tax returns disallowed substantially all of the incremental tax benefits that Pepco, DPL and ACE had claimed on those returns by requiring the companies to capitalize and depreciate certain expenses rather than treat such expenses as current deductions. PHIs protest of the IRS adjustments is among the unresolved audit matters relating to the 2001 and 2002 audits pending before the Appeals Office. In February 2006, PHI paid approximately $121 million of taxes to cover the amount of additional taxes that management estimated to be payable for the years 2001 through 2004 based on the method of tax accounting that PHI, pursuant to the proposed regulations, has adopted on its 2005 tax return. However, if the IRS is successful in requiring Pepco, DPL and ACE to capitalize and depreciate construction costs that result in a tax and interest assessment greater than managements estimate of $121 million, PHI will be required to pay additional taxes and interest only to the extent these adjustments exceed the $121 million payment made in February 2006. It is reasonably possible that PHIs unrecognized tax benefits related to this issue will significantly decrease in the next 12 months as a result of a settlement with the IRS. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES General Pepco Holdings has identified the following accounting policies, including certain estimates, that as a result of the judgments, uncertainties, uniqueness and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved, could result in material changes to its financial condition or results of operations under different conditions or using different assumptions. Pepco Holdings has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of each of these policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Goodwill Impairment Evaluation Pepco Holdings believes that the estimates involved in its goodwill impairment evaluation process represent Critical Accounting Estimates because (i) they may be susceptible to change from period to period because management is required to make assumptions and judgments about the discounting of future cash flows, which are inherently uncertain, (ii) actual results could vary from those used in Pepco Holdings estimates and the impact of such variations could be material, and (iii) the impact that recognizing an impairment would have on Pepco Holdings assets and the net loss related to an impairment charge could be material. Pepco Holdings tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of July 1, and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change in the interim that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Substantially all of Pepco Holdings goodwill was generated by Pepcos acquisition of Conectiv in 2002 and was allocated to Pepco Holdings Power Delivery segment. In order to estimate the fair value of its Power Delivery segment, Pepco Holdings discounts the estimated future cash flows associated with the segment using a discounted cash flow model with a single interest rate that is commensurate with the risk involved with such an investment. The estimation of fair value is dependent on a number of 100 factors, including but not limited to interest rates, future growth assumptions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, changes in which could materially impact the results of impairment testing. Pepco Holdings July 1, 2007 goodwill impairment testing indicated that its goodwill balance was not impaired. A hypothetical decrease in the Power Delivery segments forecasted cash flows of 10 percent would not have resulted in an impairment charge. Long Lived Assets Impairment Evaluation Pepco Holdings believes that the estimates involved in its long lived asset impairment evaluation process represent Critical Accounting Estimates because (i) they are highly susceptible to change from period to period because management is required to make assumptions and judgments about undiscounted and discounted future cash flows and fair values, which are inherently uncertain, (ii) actual results could vary from those used in Pepco Holdings estimates and the impact of such variations could be material, and (iii) the impact that recognizing an impairment would have on Pepco Holdings assets as well as the net loss related to an impairment charge could be material. SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, requires that certain long lived assets must be tested for recoverability whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss may only be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable and the carrying amount exceeds its fair value. The asset is deemed not to be recoverable when its carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. In order to estimate an assets future cash flows, Pepco Holdings considers historical cash flows. Pepco Holdings uses its best estimates in making these evaluations and considers various factors, including forward price curves for energy, fuel costs, legislative initiatives, and operating costs. If necessary, the process of determining fair value is done consistent with the process described in assessing the fair value of goodwill, which is discussed above. For a discussion of PHIs impairment losses during 2007, refer to the Impairment Losses section in the accompanying Consolidated Results of Operations discussion. Accounting for Derivatives Pepco Holdings believes that the estimates involved in accounting for its derivative instruments represent Critical Accounting Estimates because (i) the fair value of the instruments are highly susceptible to changes in market value and or interest rate fluctuations, (ii) there are significant uncertainties in modeling techniques used to measure fair value in certain circumstances, (iii) actual results could vary from those used in Pepco Holdings estimates and the impact of such variations could be material, and (iv) changes in fair values and market prices could result in material impacts to Pepco Holdings assets, liabilities, other comprehensive income (loss), and results of operations. See Note (2), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Accounting for Derivatives to the consolidated financial statements of PHI included in Item 8 for information on PHIs accounting for derivatives. Pepco Holdings and its subsidiaries use derivative instruments primarily to manage risk associated with commodity prices and interest rates. SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative 101 Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, governs the accounting treatment for derivatives and requires that derivative instruments be measured at fair value. The fair value of derivatives is determined using quoted exchange prices where available. For instruments that are not traded on an exchange, external broker quotes are used to determine fair value. For some custom and complex instruments, an internal model is used to interpolate broker quality price information. The same valuation methods are used to determine the value of non derivative, commodity exposure for risk management purposes. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans Pepco Holdings believes that the estimates involved in reporting the costs of providing pension and other postretirement benefits represent Critical Accounting Estimates because (i) they are based on an actuarial calculation that includes a number of assumptions which are subjective in nature, (ii) they are dependent on numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience, and (iii) changes in assumptions could impact Pepco Holdings expected future cash funding requirements for the plans and would have an impact on the projected benefit obligations, the reported pension and other postretirement benefit liability on the balance sheet, and the reported annual net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit cost on the income statement. In terms of quantifying the anticipated impact of a change in assumptions, Pepco Holdings estimates that a .25% change in the discount rate used to value the benefit obligations could result in a $5 million impact on its consolidated balance sheets and statements of earnings. Additionally, Pepco Holdings estimates that a .25% change in the expected return on plan assets could result in a $4 million impact on the consolidated balance sheets and statements of earnings and a .25% change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate could result in a $.5 million impact on its consolidated balance sheets and statements of earnings. Pepco Holdings management consults with its actuaries and investment consultants when selecting its plan assumptions. Pepco Holdings follows the guidance of SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, and SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) (SFAS No. 158), when accounting for these benefits. Under these accounting standards, assumptions are made regarding the valuation of benefit obligations and the performance of plan assets. In accordance with these standards, the impact of changes in these assumptions and the difference between actual and expected or estimated results on pension and postretirement obligations is generally recognized over the working lives of the employees who benefit under the plans rather than immediately recognized in the statements of earnings. Plan assets are stated at their market value as of the measurement date, which is December 31. Regulation of Power Delivery Operations The requirements of SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, apply to the Power Delivery businesses of Pepco, DPL, and ACE. Pepco Holdings believes that the judgment involved in accounting for its regulated activities represent Critical Accounting Estimates because (i) a significant amount of judgment is required (including but not limited to the interpretation of laws and regulatory commission orders) to assess the probability of the recovery of regulatory assets, (ii) actual results and interpretations could vary from those used in Pepco Holdings estimates and the impact of 102 such variations could be material, and (iii) the impact that writing off a regulatory asset would have on Pepco Holdings assets and the net loss related to the charge could be material. Unbilled Revenue Unbilled revenue represents an estimate of revenue earned from services rendered by Pepco Holdings utility operations that have not yet been billed. Pepco Holdings utility operations calculate unbilled revenue using an output based methodology. This methodology is based on the supply of electricity or gas distributed to customers. Pepco Holdings believes that the estimates involved in its unbilled revenue process represent Critical Accounting Estimates because management is required to make assumptions and judgments about input factors such as customer sales mix and estimated power line losses (estimates of electricity expected to be lost in the process of its transmission and distribution to customers), all of which are inherently uncertain and susceptible to change from period to period, the impact of which could be material. Accounting for Income Taxes Pepco Holdings and the majority of its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return. Pepco Holdings accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes and effective January 1, 2007, adopted FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. FIN 48 clarifies the criteria for recognition of tax benefits in accordance with SFAS No. 109, and prescribes a financial statement recognition threshold and measurement attribute for a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Specifically, it clarifies that an entitys tax benefits must be more likely than not of being sustained assuming that position will be examined by taxing authorities with full knowledge of all relevant information prior to recording the related tax benefit in the financial statements. If the position drops below the more likely than not standard, the benefit can no longer be recognized. Assumptions, judgment and the use of estimates are required in determining if the more likely than not standard has been met when developing the provision for income taxes. Pepco Holdings assumptions, judgments and estimates take into account current tax laws, interpretation of current tax laws and the possible outcomes of current and future investigations conducted by tax authorities. Pepco Holdings has established reserves for income taxes to address potential exposures involving tax positions that could be challenged by tax authorities. Although Pepco Holdings believes that these assumptions, judgments and estimates are reasonable, changes in tax laws or its interpretation of tax laws and the resolutions of the current and any future investigations could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in the consolidated financial statements. Under SFAS No. 109, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recorded, representing future effects on income taxes for temporary differences between the bases of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and tax purposes. Pepco Holdings evaluates quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and the availability of tax planning strategies that can be implemented, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. Failure to achieve forecasted taxable income or successfully implement tax planning strategies may affect the realization of deferred tax assets. 103 New Accounting Standards and Pronouncements For information concerning new accounting standards and pronouncements that have recently been adopted by PHI and its subsidiaries or that one or more of the companies will be required to adopt on or before a specified date in the future, see Note (2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Newly Adopted Accounting Standards and Recently Issued Accounting Policies, Not Yet Adopted to the consolidated financial statements of PHI set forth in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding Pepco Holdings intents, beliefs and current expectations. In some cases, you can identify forward looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Any forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward looking statements. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause PHIs actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. The forward looking statements contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following important factors, which are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond Pepco Holdings control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statements: Prevailing governmental policies and regulatory actions affecting the energy industry, including allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, acquisition and disposal of assets and facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, recovery of purchased power expenses, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition; Changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws and policies; Weather conditions; Population growth rates and demographic patterns; Competition for retail and wholesale customers; General economic conditions, including potential negative impacts resulting from an economic downturn; Growth in demand, sales and capacity to fulfill demand; Changes in tax rates or policies or in rates of inflation; 104 Changes in accounting standards or practices; Changes in project costs; Unanticipated changes in operating expenses and capital expenditures; The ability to obtain funding in the capital markets on favorable terms; Rules and regulations imposed by federal and or state regulatory commissions, PJM and other regional transmission organizations (New York Independent System Operator, ISONE), the North American Electric Reliability Council and other applicable electric reliability organizations; Legal and administrative proceedings (whether civil or criminal) and settlements that affect PHIs business and profitability; Pace of entry into new markets; Volatility in market demand and prices for energy, capacity and fuel; Interest rate fluctuations and credit market concerns; and Effects of geopolitical events, including the threat of domestic terrorism. Any forward looking statements speak only as to the date of this Annual Report and Pepco Holdings undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for Pepco Holdings to predict all of such factors, nor can Pepco Holdings assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. 105 THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK. 106 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS POTOMAC ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY GENERAL OVERVIEW Potomac Electric Power Company (Pepco) is engaged in the transmission and distribution of electricity in Washington, D.C. and major portions of Montgomery County and Prince Georges County in suburban Maryland. Pepco provides Default Electricity Supply, which is the supply of electricity at regulated rates to retail customers in its territories who do not elect to purchase electricity from a competitive supplier, in both the District of Columbia and Maryland. Default Electricity Supply is known as Standard Offer Service in both the District of Columbia and Maryland. Pepcos service territory covers approximately 640 square miles and has a population of approximately 2.1 million. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 57% of delivered electricity sales were to Maryland customers and approximately 43% were to Washington, D.C. customers. Effective June 16, 2007, the Maryland Public Service Commission (MPSC) approved new electric service distribution base rates for Pepco (the 2007 Maryland Rate Order). The MPSC also approved a bill stabilization adjustment mechanism (BSA) for retail customers. For customers to which the BSA applies, Pepco recognizes distribution revenue based on an approved distribution charge per customer. From a revenue recognition standpoint, the BSA thus decouples the distribution revenue recognized in a reporting period from the amount of power delivered during the period. This change in the reporting of distribution revenue has the effect of eliminating changes in customer usage (whether due to weather conditions, energy prices, energy efficiency programs or other reasons) as a factor having an impact on reported revenue. As a consequence, the only factors that will cause distribution revenue to fluctuate from period to period are changes in the number of customers and changes in the approved distribution charge per customer. Pepco is a wholly owned subsidiary of Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI or Pepco Holdings). Because PHI is a public utility holding company subject to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 (PUHCA 2005), the relationship between PHI and Pepco and certain activities of Pepco are subject to the regulatory oversight of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission under PUHCA 2005. 107 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following results of operations discussion compares the year ended December 31, 2007 to the year ended December 31, 2006. Other than this disclosure, information under this item has been omitted in accordance with General Instruction I(2)(a) to the Form 10 K. All amounts in the tables (except sales and customers) are in millions of dollars. Operating Revenue 2007 2006 Change Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 927.9 $ 854.1 $ 73.8 Default Supply Revenue 1,241.4 1,331.7 (90.3 ) Other Electric Revenue 31.6 30.7 0.9 Total Operating Revenue $ 2,200.9 $ 2,216.5 $ (15.6 ) The table above shows the amount of Operating Revenue earned that is subject to price regulation (Regulated Transmission and Distribution (T&D) Electric Revenue and Default Supply Revenue) and that which is not subject to price regulation (Other Electric Revenue). Regulated T&D Electric Revenue includes revenue from the transmission and the delivery of electricity, including the delivery of Default Electricity Supply, to Pepcos customers within its service territory at regulated rates. Default Supply Revenue is the revenue received for Default Electricity Supply. The costs related to Default Electricity Supply are included in Fuel and Purchased Energy expense. Other Electric Revenue includes work and services performed on behalf of customers, including other utilities, which is not subject to price regulation. Work and services includes mutual assistance to other utilities, highway relocation, rentals of pole attachments, late payment fees, and collection fees. Regulated T&D Electric Regulated T&D Electric Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 262.4 $ 244.7 $ 17.7 Commercial 529.4 501.8 27.6 Industrial Other 136.1 107.6 28.5 Total Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 927.9 $ 854.1 $ 73.8 Other Regulated T&D Electric Revenue consists primarily of (i) transmission service revenue received by Pepco from PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) as a transmission owner, (ii) revenue from the resale of energy and capacity under power purchase agreements between Pepco and unaffiliated third parties in the PJM Regional Transmission Organization (PJM RTO) market, and (iii) either (a) a positive adjustment equal to the amount by which revenue from Maryland retail distribution sales falls short of the revenue that Pepco is entitled to earn based on the distribution charge per customer approved in the 2007 Maryland Rate Order or (b) a negative adjustment equal to the amount by which revenue from such distribution sales exceeds the 108 revenue that Pepco is entitled to earn based on the approved distribution charge per customer (a Revenue Decoupling Adjustment). Regulated T&D Electric Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential 8,093 7,694 399 Commercial 19,197 18,632 565 Industrial Other 161 162 (1) Total Regulated T&D Electric Sales 27,451 26,488 963 Regulated T&D Electric Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 687 680 7 Commercial 73 73 Industrial Other Total Regulated T&D Electric Customers 760 753 7 Regulated T&D Electric Revenue increased by $73.8 million primarily due to the following: (i) $28.8 million increase in Other Regulated T&D Electric Revenue from the resale of energy and capacity purchased under the power purchase agreement between Panda Brandywine, L.P. (Panda) and Pepco (the Panda PPA) (offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy), (ii) $26.1 million increase due to higher weather related sales (a 21% increase in Cooling Degree Days and a 10% increase in Heating Degree Days), (iii) $12.1 million increase due to higher pass through revenue primarily resulting from tax rate increases in the District of Columbia (offset primarily in Other Taxes), (iv) $11.5 million increase due to a 2007 Maryland Rate Order that became effective in June 2007, which includes a positive $3.3 million Revenue Decoupling Adjustment. Default Electricity Supply Default Supply Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 774.5 $ 612.5 $ 162.0 Commercial 458.9 716.6 (257.7 ) Industrial Other (includes PJM) 8.0 2.6 5.4 Total Default Supply Revenue $ 1,241.4 $ 1,331.7 $ (90.3 ) Default Electricity Supply Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential 7,692 7,269 423 Commercial 4,384 8,160 (3,776) Industrial Other 37 33 4 Total Default Electricity Supply Sales 12,113 15,462 (3,349) 109 Default Electricity Supply Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 659 652 7 Commercial 52 54 (2) Industrial Other Total Default Electricity Supply Customers 711 706 5 Default Supply Revenue, which is partially offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy, decreased by $90.3 million primarily due to the following: (i) $279.8 million decrease primarily due to commercial customers electing to purchase an increased amount of electricity from competitive suppliers, (ii) $54.4 million decrease due to differences in consumption among the various customer rate classes, partially offset by (iii) $194.9 million increase due to annual increases in market based Default Electricity Supply rates, and (iv) $48.0 million increase due to higher weather related sales, (a 21% increase in Cooling Degree Days and a 10 % increase in Heating Degree Days). The following table shows percentages of Pepcos total sales by jurisdiction that are derived from customers receiving Default Electricity Supply in that jurisdiction from Pepco. 2007 2006 Sales to District of Columbia customers 35% 57% Sales to Maryland customers 51% 60% Operating Expenses Fuel and Purchased Energy Fuel and Purchased Energy, which is primarily associated with Default Electricity Supply sales, decreased by $53.9 million to $1,245.8 million in 2007 from $1,299.7 in 2006. The decrease is primarily due to the following: (i) $316.1 million decrease primarily due to commercial customers electing to purchase an increased amount of electricity from competitive suppliers, (ii) $28.3 million decrease in the Default Electricity Supply deferral balance, partially offset by (iii) $211.6 million increase in average energy costs, the result of new annual Default Electricity Supply contracts, (iv) $49.1 million increase due to higher weather related sales, and (v) $28.8 million increase for energy and capacity purchased under the Panda PPA (offset in Regulated T&D Electric Revenue). Fuel and Purchased Energy expense is primarily offset in Default Supply Revenue. Other Operation and Maintenance Other Operation and Maintenance increased by $22.7 million to $300.0 million in 2007 from $277.3 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to the following: (i) $7.0 million increase in preventative maintenance and system operation costs, (ii) $6.9 million increase in employee related costs, (iii) $3.9 million increase in regulatory expenses, (iv) $3.4 million increase due to construction project write offs related to customer requested work, and (v) $2.0 million increase due to higher bad debt expenses. 110 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and Amortization expenses decreased by $14.8 million to $151.4 million in 2007 from $166.2 million in 2006, primarily due to a change in depreciation rates in accordance with the 2007 Maryland Rate Order. Effect of Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims The Effect of Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims reflects the recovery of $33.4 million in operating expenses and certain other costs as damages in the Mirant bankruptcy settlement. Other Taxes Other Taxes increased $16.4 million to $289.5 million in 2007 from $273.1 million in 2006 primarily due to increased pass throughs resulting from tax rate increases in the District of Columbia (partially offset in Regulated T&D Electric Revenue). Income Tax Expense Pepcos effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were 33.2% and 40.2%, respectively. The 7.0% decrease in the effective tax rate in 2007 was primarily the result of a 2007 Maryland state income tax refund. The refund was due to an increase in the tax basis of certain assets sold in 2000, and as a result, Pepcos 2007 income tax expense was reduced by $19.5 million with a corresponding decrease to the effective tax rate of 10.4%. This decrease in the effective tax rate was partially offset by 2007 deferred tax basis adjustments and reduced book versus tax depreciation and amortization differences, which increased the year over year effective tax rate by 2.4% and 0.9%, respectively. Capital Requirements Capital Expenditures Pepcos total capital expenditures for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, totaled $272.2 million. These expenditures were primarily related to capital costs associated with new customer services, distribution reliability and transmission. The table below shows Pepcos projected capital expenditures for the five year period 2008 through 2012: For the Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total (Millions of Dollars) Pepco Distribution $ 192 $ 215 $ 212 $ 232 $ 331 $ 1,182 Distribution Blueprint for the Future 24 61 61 63 5 214 Transmission 45 64 167 168 62 506 MAPP 17 72 30 119 Other 15 17 12 12 11 67 $ 293 $ 429 $ 482 $ 475 $ 409 $ 2,088 111 Pepco expects to fund these expenditures through internally generated cash and from external financing and capital contributions from PHI. Distribution, Transmission and Gas Delivery The projected capital expenditures for distribution (other than Blueprint for the Future), transmission (other than MAPP) and gas delivery are primarily for facility replacements and upgrades to accommodate customer growth and reliability. Blueprint for the Future During 2007, PHI announced an initiative in Pepcos service territory referred to as the Blueprint for the Future. This initiative combines traditional energy efficiency programs with new technologies and systems to help customers manage their energy use and reduce the total cost of energy, and includes the installation of smart meters for all customers in the District of Columbia and Maryland. Pepco has made filings with the District of Columbia Public Service Commission and the MPSC for approval of certain aspects of these programs. MAPP Project On October 17, 2007, Pepco Holdings received the approval of the PJM Board of Managers to build a new 230 mile, 500 kilovolt interstate transmission line as part of PJMs Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to address the reliability objectives of the PJM RTO system. The transmission line, which is referred to as the MAPP Project, will be located in northern Virginia, Maryland, the Delmarva Peninsula, and New Jersey. The preliminarily estimated cost of the 500 kilovolt MAPP Project is approximately $1 billion. Pepcos portion of the preliminary estimated cost of the 500 kilovolt transmission line is approximately $119 million. Construction is expected to occur in sections over a six year period with completion targeted by 2013. Proceeds from Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims In 2000, Pepco sold substantially all of its electricity generating assets to Mirant Corporation (Mirant). In 2003, Mirant commenced a voluntary bankruptcy proceeding in which it sought to reject certain obligations that it had undertaken in connection with the asset sale. As part of the asset sale, Pepco entered into transition power agreements with Mirant pursuant to which Mirant agreed to supply all of the energy and capacity needed by Pepco to fulfill its SOS obligations in Maryland and in the District of Columbia (the TPAs). Under a settlement to avoid the rejection by Mirant of its obligations under the TPAs in the bankruptcy proceeding, the terms of the TPAs were modified to increase the purchase price of the energy and capacity supplied by Mirant and Pepco received an allowed, pre petition general unsecured claim in the bankruptcy in the amount of $105 million (the TPA Claim). In December 2005, Pepco sold the TPA Claim, plus the right to receive accrued interest thereon, to an unaffiliated third party for $112.5 million. In addition, Pepco received proceeds of $.5 million in settlement of an asbestos claim against the Mirant bankruptcy estate. After customer sharing, Pepco recorded a pre tax gain of $70.5 million from the settlement of these claims. In connection with the asset sale, Pepco and Mirant also entered into a back to back arrangement, whereby Mirant agreed to purchase from Pepco the 230 megawatts of electricity and capacity that Pepco is obligated to purchase annually through 2021 from Panda Brandywine LLP (Panda) under a power purchase agreement (the Panda PPA) at the purchase price Pepco is 112 obligated to pay to Panda. As part of the further settlement of Pepcos claims against Mirant arising from the Mirant bankruptcy, Pepco agreed not to contest the rejection by Mirant of its obligations under the back to back arrangement in exchange for the payment by Mirant of damages corresponding to the estimated amount by which the purchase price that Pepco is obligated to pay Panda for the energy and capacity exceeded the market price. In 2007, Pepco received as damages $413.9 million in net proceeds from the sale of shares of Mirant common stock issued to it by Mirant. These funds are being accounted for as restricted cash based on managements intent to use such funds, and any interest earned thereon, for the sole purpose of paying for the future above market capacity and energy purchase costs under the Panda PPA. Correspondingly, a regulatory liability has been established in the same amount to help offset the future above market capacity and energy purchase costs. This restricted cash has been classified as a non current asset to be consistent with the classification of the non current regulatory liability, and any changes in the balance of this restricted cash, including interest on the invested funds, are being accounted for as operating cash flows. As of December 31, 2007, the balance of the restricted cash account was $417.3 million. Based on a reexamination of the costs of the Panda PPA in light of current and projected wholesale market conditions conducted in the fourth quarter of 2007, Pepco determined that, principally due to increases in wholesale capacity prices, the present value above market cost of the Panda PPA over the term of the agreement is expected to be significantly less than the current amount of the restricted cash account balance. Accordingly, on February 22, 2008, Pepco filed applications with the DCPSC and the MPSC requesting orders directing Pepco to maintain $320 million in the restricted cash account and to use that cash, and any future earnings on the cash, for the sole purpose of paying the future above market cost of the Panda PPA (or, in the alternative, to fund a transfer or assignment of the remaining obligations under the Panda PPA to a third party). Pepco also requested that the order provide that any cash remaining in the account at the conclusion of the Panda PPA be refunded to customers and that any shortfall be recovered from customers. Pepco further proposed that the excess proceeds remaining from the settlement (approximately $94.6 million, representing the amount by which the regulatory liability of $414.6 million at December 31, 2007 exceeded $320 million) be shared with its customers in accordance with the procedures previously approved by each commission for the sharing of the proceeds received by Pepco from the sale to Mirant of its generating assets. The regulatory liability of $414.6 million at December 31, 2007 differs from the restricted cash amount of $417.3 million on that date, in part, because the regulatory liability has been reduced for the portion of the December 2007 Panda charges in excess of market that had not yet been paid from the restricted cash account. The amount of the restricted cash balance that Pepco is permitted to retain will be recorded as earnings upon approval of the sharing arrangement by the respective commissions. At this time, Pepco cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. In settlement of other damages claims against Mirant, Pepco in 2007 also received a settlement payment in the amount of $70.0 million. Of this amount (i) $33.4 million was recorded as a reduction in operating expenses, (ii) $21.0 million was recorded as a reduction in a net pre petition receivable claim from Mirant, (iii) $15.0 million was recorded as a reduction in the capitalized costs of certain property, plant and equipment and (iv) $.6 million was recorded as a liability to reimburse a third party for certain legal costs associated with the settlement. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 113 amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding Pepcos intents, beliefs and current expectations. In some cases, you can identify forward looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Any forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward looking statements. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause Pepcos or Pepcos industrys actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. The forward looking statements contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following important factors, which are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond Pepcos control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statements: Prevailing governmental policies and regulatory actions affecting the energy industry, including allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, acquisition and disposal of assets and facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, recovery of purchased power expenses, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition; Changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws and policies; Weather conditions; Population growth rates and demographic patterns; Competition for retail and wholesale customers; General economic conditions, including potential negative impacts resulting from an economic downturn; Growth in demand, sales and capacity to fulfill demand; Changes in tax rates or policies or in rates of inflation; Changes in project costs; Unanticipated changes in operating expenses and capital expenditures; The ability to obtain funding in the capital markets on favorable terms; Restrictions imposed by federal and or state regulatory commissions, PJM, the North American Electric Reliability Council and other applicable electric reliability organizations; Legal and administrative proceedings (whether civil or criminal) and settlements that affect Pepcos business and profitability; Volatility in market demand and prices for energy, capacity and fuel; 114 Interest rate fluctuations and credit market concerns; and Effects of geopolitical events, including the threat of domestic terrorism. Any forward looking statements speak only as to the date of this Annual Report and Pepco undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for Pepco to predict all of such factors, nor can Pepco assess the impact of any such factor on Pepcos business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. 115 THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK. 116 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DELMARVA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY GENERAL OVERVIEW Delmarva Power & Light Company (DPL) is engaged in the transmission and distribution of electricity in Delaware and portions of Maryland and Virginia (until the sale of its Virginia operations on January 2, 2008). DPL provides Default Electricity Supply, which is the supply of electricity at regulated rates to retail customers in its territories who do not elect to purchase electricity from a competitive supplier. Default Electricity Supply is also known as Default Service in Virginia (until the sale of its Virginia operations on January 2, 2008), as Standard Offer Service in Maryland and in Delaware on and after May 1, 2006, and as Provider of Last Resort (POLR) service in Delaware before May 1, 2006. DPLs electricity distribution service territory covers approximately 6,000 square miles and has a population of approximately 1.3 million. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 65% of delivered electricity sales were to Delaware customers, approximately 32% were to Maryland customers, and approximately 3% were to Virginia customers. DPL also provides natural gas distribution service in northern Delaware. DPLs natural gas distribution service territory covers approximately 275 square miles and has a population of approximately .5 million. On January 2, 2008, DPL completed (i) the sale of its retail electric distribution business on the Eastern Shore of Virginia to A&N Electric Cooperative (A&N) for a purchase price of approximately $45.2 million, after closing adjustments, and (ii) the sale of its wholesale electric transmission business located on the Eastern Shore of Virginia to Old Dominion Electric Cooperative (ODEC) for a purchase price of approximately $5.4 million, after closing adjustments. Each of A&N and ODEC assumed certain post closing liabilities and unknown pre closing liabilities related to the respective assets they are purchasing (including, in the A&N transaction, most environmental liabilities), except that DPL remained liable for unknown pre closing liabilities if they become known within six months after the January 2, 2008 closing date. These sales resulted in an immaterial financial gain to DPL that will be recorded during the first quarter of 2008. Effective June 16, 2007, the Maryland Public Service Commission (MPSC) approved new electric service distribution base rates for DPL (the 2007 Maryland Rate Order). The MPSC also approved a bill stabilization adjustment mechanism (BSA) for retail customers. For customers to which the BSA applies, DPL recognizes distribution revenue based on an approved distribution charge per customer. From a revenue recognition standpoint, the BSA thus decouples the distribution revenue recognized in a reporting period from the amount of power delivered during the period. This change in the reporting of distribution revenue has the effect of eliminating changes in customer usage (whether due to weather conditions, energy prices, energy efficiency programs or other reasons) as a factor having an impact on reported revenue. As a consequence, the only factors that will cause distribution revenue to fluctuate from period to period are changes in the number of customers and changes in the approved distribution charge per customer. 117 DPL is a wholly owned subsidiary of Conectiv, which is wholly owned by Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI). Because PHI is a public utility holding company subject to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 (PUHCA 2005), the relationship between PHI and DPL and certain activities of DPL are subject to the regulatory oversight of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission under PUHCA 2005. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following results of operations discussion compares the year ended December 31, 2007 to the year ended December 31, 2006. Other than this disclosure, information under this item has been omitted in accordance with General Instruction I(2)(a) to the Form 10 K. All amounts in the tables (except sales and customers) are in millions of dollars. Operating Revenue 2007 2006 Change Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 337.4 $ 333.4 $ 4.0 Default Supply Revenue 846.4 812.5 33.9 Other Electric Revenue 20.9 22.1 (1.2 ) Total Electric Operating Revenue $ 1,204.7 $ 1,168.0 $ 36.7 The table above shows the amount of Electric Operating Revenue earned that is subject to price regulation (Regulated Transmission and Distribution (T&D) Electric Revenue and Default Supply Revenue) and that which is not subject to price regulation (Other Electric Revenue). Regulated T&D Electric Revenue includes revenue from the transmission and the delivery of electricity, including the delivery of Default Electricity Supply, to DPLs customers within its service territory at regulated rates. Default Supply Revenue is the revenue received for Default Electricity Supply. The costs related to Default Electricity Supply are included in Fuel and Purchased Energy expense. Other Electric Revenue includes work and services performed on behalf of customers, including other utilities, which is not subject to price regulation. Work and services includes mutual assistance to other utilities, highway relocation, rentals of pole attachments, late payment fees, and collection fees. Regulated T&D Electric Regulated T&D Electric Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 166.6 $ 162.5 $ 4.1 Commercial 90.7 90.0 .7 Industrial 12.0 13.5 (1.5 ) Other 68.1 67.4 .7 Total Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 337.4 $ 333.4 $ 4.0 Other Regulated T&D Electric Revenue consists primarily of (i) transmission service revenue received by DPL from PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) as a transmission owner, and 118 (ii) either (a) a positive adjustment equal to the amount by which revenue from Maryland retail distribution sales falls short of the revenue that DPL is entitled to earn based on the distribution charge per customer approved in the 2007 Maryland Rate Order or (b) a negative adjustment equal to the amount by which revenue from such distribution sales exceeds the revenue that DPL is entitled to earn based on the approved distribution charge per customer (a Revenue Decoupling Adjustment). Regulated T&D Electric Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential 5,333 5,170 163 Commercial 5,471 5,357 114 Industrial 2,825 2,899 (74) Other 51 51 Total Regulated T&D Electric Sales 13,680 13,477 203 Regulated T&D Electric Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 456 451 5 Commercial 61 60 1 Industrial 1 1 Other 1 1 Total Regulated T&D Electric Customers 519 513 6 Regulated T&D Electric Revenue increased by $4.0 million primarily due to the following: (i) $11.0 million increase due to higher weather related sales (a 15% increase in Heating Degree Days and a 13% increase in Cooling Degree Days), (ii) $8.8 million increase due to a 2007 Maryland Rate Order that became effective in June 2007, which includes a positive $1.6 million Revenue Decoupling Adjustment, partially offset by (iii) $10.0 million decrease due to a change in Delaware rate structure effective May 1, 2006, which shifted revenue from Regulated T&D Electric Revenue to Default Supply Revenue, and (iv) $4.0 million decrease due to a Delaware base rate reduction in May 2006. Default Electricity Supply Default Supply Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 556.2 $ 449.9 $ 106.3 Commercial 238.7 302.2 (63.5 ) Industrial 42.1 55.4 (13.3 ) Other (includes PJM) 9.4 5.0 4.4 Total Default Supply Revenue $ 846.4 $ 812.5 $ 33.9 Default Electricity Supply Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 5,257 $ 5,154 $ 103 Commercial 2,291 3,472 (1,181) Industrial 551 983 (432) Other 45 49 (4) Total Default Electricity Supply Sales $ 8,144 $ 9,658 $ (1,514) 119 Default Electricity Supply Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 447 449 (2) Commercial 51 53 (2) Industrial Other 1 1 Total Default Electricity Supply Customers 499 503 (4) Default Supply Revenue, which is partially offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy, increased by $33.9 million primarily due to the following: (i) $116.0 million increase due to annual increases in market based Default Electricity Supply rates, (ii) $27.0 million increase due to higher weather related sales (a 15% increase in Heating Degree Days and a 13% increase in Cooling Degree Days), (iii) $10.0 million increase due to a change in Delaware rate structure effective May 1, 2006 that shifted revenue from Regulated T&D Electric Revenue to Default Supply Revenue, partially offset by (iv) $68.0 million decrease primarily due to commercial and industrial customers electing to purchase an increased amount of electricity from competitive suppliers, and (v) $50.0 million decrease due to differences in consumption among the various customer rate classes. The following table shows the percentages of DPLs total sales by jurisdiction that are derived from customers receiving Default Electricity Supply in that jurisdiction from DPL. 2007 2006 Sales to Delaware customers 54% 69% Sales to Maryland customers 67% 75% Sales to Virginia customers 94% 94% Natural Gas Operating Revenue 2007 2006 Change Regulated Gas Revenue $ 211.3 $ 204.8 $ 6.5 Other Gas Revenue 80.0 50.6 29.4 Total Natural Gas Operating Revenue $ 291.3 $ 255.4 $ 35.9 The table above shows the amounts of Natural Gas Operating Revenue from sources that are subject to price regulation (Regulated Gas Revenue) and those that generally are not subject to price regulation (Other Gas Revenue). Regulated Gas Revenue includes the revenue DPL receives for on system natural gas delivered sales and the transportation of natural gas for customers. Other Gas Revenue includes off system natural gas sales and the release of excess system capacity. 120 Regulated Gas Regulated Gas Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 124.0 $ 116.2 $ 7.8 Commercial 72.7 73.0 (.3 ) Industrial 8.2 10.3 (2.1 ) Transportation and Other 6.4 5.3 1.1 Total Regulated Gas Revenue $ 211.3 $ 204.8 $ 6.5 Regulated Gas Sales (Bcf) 2007 2006 Change Residential 7.9 6.6 1.3 Commercial 5.2 4.6 .6 Industrial .8 .8 Transportation and Other 6.8 6.3 .5 Total Regulated Gas Sales 20.7 18.3 2.4 Regulated Gas Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 112 112 Commercial 10 9 1 Industrial Transportation and Other Total Regulated Gas Customers 122 121 1 Regulated Gas Revenue increased by $6.5 million primarily due to (i) $11.7 million increase due to colder weather (a 15% increase in Heating Degree Days), (ii) $5.7 million increase due to base rate increases effective in November 2006 and April 2007, (iii) $4.8 million increase due to differences in consumption among the various customer rate classes, (iv) $2.7 million increase due to customer growth of 1% in 2007, partially offset by (v) $18.4 million decrease due to Gas Cost Rate decreases effective November 2006, April 2007 and November 2007 resulting from lower natural gas commodity costs (offset in Gas Purchased Expense). Other Gas Revenue increased by $29.4 million to $80.0 million in 2007 from $50.6 million in 2006 primarily due to higher off system sales (partially offset in Gas Purchased Expense). The gas sold off system resulted from increased demand from unaffiliated third party electric generators during periods of low customer demand for natural gas. Operating Expenses Fuel and Purchased Energy Fuel and Purchased Energy, which is primarily associated with Default Electricity Supply sales, increased by $21.8 million to $838.6 million in 2007 from $816.8 million in 2006. The increase is primarily due to (i) $143.8 million increase in average energy costs, the result of new annual Default Electricity Supply contracts, (ii) $27.1 million increase due to higher weather related sales, partially offset by (iii) $130.1 million decrease primarily due to commercial and 121 industrial customers electing to purchase an increased amount of electricity from competitive suppliers, (iv) $10.8 million decrease in network transmission expenses primarily due to POLR service obligations ending April 1, 2006, and (v) $8.1 million decrease in the Default Electricity Supply deferral balance. Fuel and Purchased Energy expense is primarily offset by Default Supply Revenue. Gas Purchased Total Gas Purchased, which is primarily offset in Regulated Gas Revenue and Other Gas Revenue, increased by $21.9 million to $220.3 million in 2007 from $198.4 million in 2006. The increase is primarily due to (i) $26.4 million increase in off system sales, partially offset by (ii) $4.6 million decrease from the settlement of financial hedges (entered into as part of DPLs regulated natural gas hedge program). Other Operation and Maintenance Other Operation and Maintenance increased by $20.5 million to $205.4 million in 2007 from $184.9 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to the following: (i) $4.3 million increase in costs associated with Default Electricity Supply (primarily deferred and recoverable), (ii) $4.2 million increase in preventative maintenance and system operation costs, (iii) $3.7 million increase in employee related costs, (iv) $2.5 million increase in customer service operation expenses, (v) $1.2 million increase due to higher bad debt expenses, and (vi) $1.1 million increase in accounting service expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and Amortization decreased by $2.3 million to $74.4 million in 2007 from $76.7 million in 2006. The decrease is primarily due to fully amortized software. Other Income (Expense) Other Expenses (which are net of Other Income) increased by $3.0 million to a net expense of $39.9 million in 2007 from a net expense of $36.9 million in 2006. The increase is primarily due to an increase in interest expense on inter company borrowings. Income Tax Expense DPLs effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were 45.3% and 43.0%, respectively. The 2.3% increase in the effective tax rate in 2007 was primarily the result of certain 2007 deferred tax basis adjustments which increased the 2007 effective tax rate by 3.9 %. This increase in the effective tax rate was partially offset by 2007 and 2006 changes in estimates related to prior year tax liabilities, which reduced the year over year effective tax rate by 2.0%. Capital Requirements Capital Expenditures DPLs total capital expenditures for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, totaled $132.6 million. These expenditures were primarily related to capital costs associated with new customer services, distribution reliability and transmission. 122 The table below shows DPLs projected capital expenditures for the five year period 2008 through 2012: For the Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total (Millions of Dollars) DPL Distribution $ 101 $ 118 $ 124 $ 124 $ 138 $ 605 Distribution Blueprint for the Future 22 58 59 30 9 178 Transmission 57 52 45 57 52 263 MAPP 11 107 210 271 185 784 Gas Delivery 23 24 19 19 18 103 Other 10 10 9 7 7 43 $ 224 $ 369 $ 466 $ 508 $ 409 $ 1,976 DPL expects to fund these expenditures through internally generated cash and from external financing and capital contributions from PHI. Distribution, Transmission and Gas Delivery The projected capital expenditures for distribution (other than Blueprint for the Future), transmission (other than MAPP) and gas delivery are primarily for facility replacements and upgrades to accommodate customer growth and reliability. Blueprint for the Future During 2007, PHI announced an initiative in DPLs service territory referred to as the Blueprint for the Future. This initiative combines traditional energy efficiency programs with new technologies and systems to help customers manage their energy use and reduce the total cost of energy, and includes the installation of smart meters for all customers in Delaware and Maryland. DPL has made filings with the Delaware Public Service Commission and the MPSC for approval of certain aspects of these programs. DPLs preliminarily estimated cost to implement these proposals, if approved by the applicable regulatory commissions, is summarized in the chart above for the five year period from 2008 to 2012. MAPP Project On October 17, 2007, Pepco Holdings received the approval of the PJM Board of Managers to build a new 230 mile, 500 kilovolt interstate transmission line as part of PJMs Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to address the reliability objectives of the PJM RTO system. The transmission line, which is referred to as the MAPP Project, will be located in northern Virginia, Maryland, the Delmarva Peninsula, and New Jersey. The preliminarily estimated cost of the 500 kilovolt MAPP Project is approximately $1 billion. DPLs portion of the preliminary cost of the 500 kilovolt transmission line is approximately $904 million. Construction is expected to occur in sections over a six year period with completion targeted by 2013. PHI also plans to add significant 230 kilovolt support lines in Maryland and New Jersey to connect with the new 500 kilovolt line at an approximate cost of $200 million. PJM continues to evaluate the 230 kilovolt support lines. Accordingly, DPLs projected construction costs associated with these support lines are not included in the table above. 123 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding DPLs intents, beliefs and current expectations. In some cases, you can identify forward looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Any forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward looking statements. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause DPL or DPLs industrys actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. The forward looking statements contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following important factors, which are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond DPLs control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statements: Prevailing governmental policies and regulatory actions affecting the energy industry, including allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, acquisition and disposal of assets and facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, recovery of purchased power expenses, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition; Changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws and policies; Weather conditions; Population growth rates and demographic patterns; Competition for retail and wholesale customers; General economic conditions, including potential negative impacts resulting from an economic downturn; Growth in demand, sales and capacity to fulfill demand; Changes in tax rates or policies or in rates of inflation; Changes in project costs; Unanticipated changes in operating expenses and capital expenditures; The ability to obtain funding in the capital markets on favorable terms; Restrictions imposed by federal and or state regulatory commissions, PJM, the North American Electric Reliability Council and other applicable electric reliability organizations 124 Legal and administrative proceedings (whether civil or criminal) and settlements that affect DPLs business and profitability; Volatility in market demand and prices for energy, capacity and fuel; Interest rate fluctuations and credit market concerns; and Effects of geopolitical events, including the threat of domestic terrorism. Any forward looking statements speak only as to the date of this Annual Report and DPL undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for DPL to predict all of such factors, nor can DPL assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. 125 THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK. 126 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ATLANTIC CITY ELECTRIC COMPANY GENERAL OVERVIEW Atlantic City Electric Company (ACE) is engaged in the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity in southern New Jersey. ACE provides Default Electricity Supply, which is the supply of electricity at regulated rates to retail customers in its service territory who do not elect to purchase electricity from a competitive supplier. Default Electricity Supply is also known as Basic Generation Service (BGS) in New Jersey. ACEs service territory covers approximately 2,700 square miles and has a population of approximately 1.0 million. ACE is a wholly owned subsidiary of Conectiv, which is wholly owned by Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI or Pepco Holdings). Because PHI is a public utility holding company subject to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 (PUHCA 2005), the relationship between PHI and ACE and certain activities of ACE are subject to the regulatory oversight of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission under PUHCA 2005. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS On February 8, 2007, ACE completed the sale of the B.L. England generating facility. B.L. England comprised a significant component of ACEs generation operations and its sale requires discontinued operations presentation under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, on ACEs Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. In September 2006, ACE sold its interests in the Keystone and Conemaugh generating facilities, which for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, are also reflected as discontinued operations. The following table summarizes information related to the discontinued operations for the years presented (millions of dollars): 2007 2006 2005 Operating Revenue $ 9.7 $ 113.7 $ 170.3 Income Before Income Tax Expense and Extraordinary Item $ .2 $ 4.4 $ 5.2 Net Income $ .1 $ 2.6 $ 3.1 127 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following results of operations discussion compares the year ended December 31, 2007 to the year ended December 31, 2006. Other than this disclosure, information under this item has been omitted in accordance with General Instruction I(2)(a) to the Form 10 K. All amounts in the tables (except sales and customers) are in millions of dollars. Operating Revenue 2007 2006 Change Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 366.5 $ 345.6 $ 20.9 Default Supply Revenue 1,159.4 1,014.0 145.4 Other Electric Revenue 16.6 13.7 2.9 Total Operating Revenue $ 1,542.5 $ 1,373.3 $ 169.2 The table above shows the amount of Operating Revenue earned that is subject to price regulation (Regulated Transmission and Distribution (T&D) Electric Revenue and Default Supply Revenue) and that which is not subject to price regulation (Other Electric Revenue). Regulated T&D Electric Revenue consists of revenue from the transmission and the delivery of electricity, including the delivery of Default Electricity Supply, to ACEs customers within its service territory at regulated rates. Default Supply Revenue is the revenue received for Default Electricity Supply. The costs related to Default Electricity Supply are included in Fuel and Purchased Energy expense. Also included in Default Supply Revenue is revenue from transition bond charges and other restructuring related revenues (see Deferred Electric Service Costs). Other Electric Revenue includes work and services performed on behalf of customers, including other utilities, which is not subject to price regulation. Work and services includes mutual assistance to other utilities, highway relocation, rentals of pole attachments, late payment fees, and collection fees. Regulated T&D Electric Regulated T&D Electric Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 177.0 $ 168.5 $ 8.5 Commercial 111.1 107.2 3.9 Industrial 15.4 15.1 0.3 Other 63.0 54.8 8.2 Total Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 366.5 $ 345.6 $ 20.9 Other Regulated T&D Electric Revenue consists primarily of transmission service revenue received by ACE from PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) as a transmission owner. 128 Regulated T&D Electric Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential 4,520 4,275 245 Commercial 4,469 4,389 80 Industrial 1,149 1,220 (71) Other 49 47 2 Total Regulated T&D Electric Sales 10,187 9,931 256 Regulated T&D Electric Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 479 474 5 Commercial 63 63 Industrial 1 1 Other 1 1 Total Regulated T&D Electric Customers 544 539 5 Regulated T&D Electric Revenue increased by $20.9 million primarily due to the following: (i) $8.1 million increase in transmission service revenue primarily due to an increase in the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission formula rate in June 2007, (ii) $5.9 million increase due to higher weather related sales (a 10% increase in Heating Degree Days and an 8% increase in Cooling Degree Days), (iii) $4.5 million increase due to differences in consumption among the various customer rate classes, and (iv) $2.4 million increase due to customer growth of 1.0% in 2007. Default Electricity Supply Default Supply Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 485.7 $ 420.5 $ 65.2 Commercial 364.2 333.8 30.4 Industrial 50.0 52.8 (2.8 ) Other 259.5 206.9 52.6 Total Default Supply Revenue $ 1,159.4 $ 1,014.0 $ 145.4 Other Default Supply Revenue consists primarily of revenue from the resale of energy and capacity under non utility generating contracts between ACE and unaffiliated third parties (NUGs) in the PJM Regional Transmission Organization (PJM RTO) market. Default Electricity Supply Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential 4,520 4,275 245 Commercial 3,235 3,167 68 Industrial 363 396 (33) Other 49 47 2 Total Default Electricity Supply Sales 8,167 7,885 282 129 Default Electricity Supply Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 479 474 5 Commercial 63 63 Industrial 1 1 Other 1 1 Total Default Electricity Supply Customers 544 539 5 Default Supply Revenue, which is partially offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy, increased by $145.4 million primarily due to the following: (i) $68.2 million increase due to annual increases in market based Default Electricity Supply rates, (ii) $53.7 million increase in wholesale energy revenues due to the sale in PJM at higher market prices of electricity purchased from NUGs, and (iii) $11.6 million increase due to higher weather related sales (a 10% increase in Heating Degree Days and an 8% increase in Cooling Degree Days). For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, ACEs customers served energy by ACE represented 80% and 78%, respectively, of ACEs total sales. Operating Expenses Fuel and Purchased Energy Fuel and Purchased Energy, which is primarily associated with Default Electricity Supply sales, increased by $126.8 million to $1,051.0 million in 2007 from $924.2 in 2006. The increase is primarily due to the following: (i) $89.8 million increase due to new annual BGS supply contracts, and (ii) $16.8 million increase due to higher weather related sales. Fuel and Purchased Energy expense is primarily offset in Default Supply Revenue. Other Operation and Maintenance Other Operation and Maintenance increased by $17.1 million to $164.8 million in 2007 from $147.7 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to the following: (i) $5.2 million increase in employee related costs, (ii) $3.1 million increase in Demand Side Management program costs (offset in Deferred Electric Service costs), (iii) $2.8 million increase in customer service operation expenses, (iv) $1.5 million increase in accounting service expenses, and (v) $.7 million increase in regulatory expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and Amortization expenses decreased by $31.1 million to $80.2 million in 2007 from $111.3 million in 2006. The decrease is primarily due to lower amortization of regulatory assets resulting from the 2006 sale of ACEs interests in Keystone and Conemaugh. Deferred Electric Service Costs Deferred Electric Service Costs increased by $51.0 million to an expense of $66.0 million in 2007 from an expense of $15.0 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to (i) $37.5 million net over recovery associated with non utility generating contracts between ACE and unaffiliated third parties, (ii) $11.7 million net over recovery associated with BGS energy costs, 130 partially offset by (iii) $3.2 million net under recovery associated with Demand Side Management program costs. Income Tax Expense ACEs effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were 40.5% and 35.4%, respectively. The 5.1% increase in the effective tax rate in 2007 was primarily the result of 2007 and 2006 changes in estimates related to prior year tax liabilities, which increased the year over year effective tax rate by 4.8%. Capital Requirements Capital Expenditures ACEs total capital expenditures for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, totaled $149.4 million. These expenditures were primarily related to capital costs associated with new customer services, distribution reliability and transmission. The table below shows ACEs projected capital expenditures for the five year period 2008 through 2012: For the Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total (Millions of Dollars) ACE Distribution $ 96 $ 107 $ 101 $ 109 $ 111 $ 524 Distribution Blueprint for the Future 15 11 16 20 85 147 Transmission 78 17 25 45 47 212 MAPP 1 2 3 6 Other 10 10 8 7 5 40 $ 199 $ 145 $ 151 $ 183 $ 251 $ 929 ACE expects to fund these expenditures through internally generated cash and from external financing and capital contributions from PHI. Distribution, Transmission and Gas Delivery The projected capital expenditures for distribution (other than Blueprint for the Future), transmission (other than MAPP) and gas delivery are primarily for facility replacements and upgrades to accommodate customer growth and reliability. Blueprint for the Future During 2007, PHI announced an initiative in ACEs service territory referred to as the Blueprint for the Future. This initiative combines traditional energy efficiency programs with new technologies and systems to help customers manage their energy use and reduce the total cost of energy, and includes the installation of smart meters for all customers in New Jersey. In November 2007, ACE filed its Blueprint for the Future proposal with the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities. 131 MAPP Project On October 17, 2007, Pepco Holdings received the approval of the PJM Board of Managers to build a new 230 mile, 500 kilovolt interstate transmission line as part of PJMs Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to address the reliability objectives of the PJM RTO system. The transmission line, which is referred to as the MAPP Project, will be located in northern Virginia, Maryland, the Delmarva Peninsula, and New Jersey. The preliminarily estimated cost of the 500 kilovolt MAPP Project is approximately $1 billion. ACEs portion of the preliminary estimated cost of the 500 kilovolt transmission line is approximately $27 million. Construction is expected to occur in sections over a six year period with completion targeted by 2013. PHI also plans to add significant 230 kilovolt support lines in Maryland and New Jersey to connect with the new 500 kilovolt line at an approximate cost of $200 million. PJM continues to evaluate the 230 kilovolt support lines. Accordingly, ACEs projected construction costs associated with these support lines are not included in the table above. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding ACEs intents, beliefs and current expectations. In some cases, you can identify forward looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Any forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward looking statements. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause ACE or ACEs industrys actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. The forward looking statements contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following important factors, which are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond ACEs control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statements: Prevailing governmental policies and regulatory actions affecting the energy industry, including allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, acquisition and disposal of assets and facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, recovery of purchased power expenses, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition; Changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws and policies; Weather conditions; Population growth rates and demographic patterns; Competition for retail and wholesale customers; 132 General economic conditions, including potential negative impacts resulting from an economic downturn; Growth in demand, sales and capacity to fulfill demand; Changes in tax rates or policies or in rates of inflation; Changes in project costs; Unanticipated changes in operating expenses and capital expenditures; The ability to obtain funding in the capital markets on favorable terms; Restrictions imposed by federal and or state regulatory commissions, PJM, the North American Electric Reliability Council and other applicable electric reliability organizations; Legal and administrative proceedings (whether civil or criminal) and settlements that affect ACEs business and profitability; Volatility in market demand and prices for energy, capacity and fuel; Interest rate fluctuations and credit market concerns; and Effects of geopolitical events, including the threat of domestic terrorism. Any forward looking statements speak only as to the date of this Annual Report and ACE undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for ACE to predict all of such factors, nor can ACE assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. 133 THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK. 134 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Risk management policies for PHI and its subsidiaries are determined by PHIs Corporate Risk Management Committee, the members of which are PHIs Chief Risk Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Chief Information Officer and other senior executives. The Corporate Risk Management Committee monitors interest rate fluctuation, commodity price fluctuation, and credit risk exposure, and sets risk management policies that establish limits on unhedged risk and determine risk reporting requirements. Pepco Holdings, Inc. Commodity Price Risk PHIs Competitive Energy businesses use derivative instruments primarily to reduce their financial exposure to changes in the value of their assets and obligations due to commodity price fluctuations. The derivative instruments used by the Competitive Energy businesses include forward contracts, futures, swaps, and exchange traded and over the counter options. In addition, the Competitive Energy businesses also manage commodity risk with contracts that are not classified as derivatives. The two primary risk management objectives are (1) to manage the spread between the cost of fuel used to operate electric generation plants and the revenue received from the sale of the power produced by those plants, and (2) to manage the spread between retail sales commitments and the cost of supply used to service those commitments to ensure stable and known minimum cash flows, and lock in favorable prices and margins when they become available. To a lesser extent, Conectiv Energy also engages in energy marketing activities. Energy marketing activities consist primarily of wholesale natural gas and fuel oil marketing; the activities of the short term power desk, which generates margin by capturing price differences between power pools, and locational and timing differences within a power pool; and prior to October 31, 2006, provided operating services under an agreement with an unaffiliated generating plant. PHI collectively refers to these energy marketing activities, including its commodity risk management activities, as other energy commodity activities and identifies this activity separately from the discontinued proprietary trading activity that was discontinued in 2003. The Corporate Risk Management Committee has the responsibility for establishing corporate compliance requirements for the Competitive Energy businesses energy market participation. PHI collectively refers to these energy market activities, including its commodity risk management activities, as other energy commodity activities. PHI does not engage in proprietary trading activities. PHI uses a value at risk (VaR) model to assess the market risk of its Competitive Energy businesses energy commodity activities. PHI also uses other measures to limit and monitor risk in its energy commodity activities, including limits on the nominal size of positions and periodic loss limits. VaR represents the potential mark to market loss on energy contracts or portfolios due to changes in market prices for a specified time period and confidence level. PHI estimates VaR using a delta normal variance / covariance model with a 95 percent, one tailed confidence level and assuming a one day holding period. Since VaR is an estimate, it is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. 135 Value at Risk Associated with Energy Contracts For the Year Ended December 31, 2007 (Millions of dollars) Proprietary Trading VaR VaR for Competitive Energy Activity (a) 95% confidence level, one day holding period, one tailed Period end $ $ 4.2 Average for the period $ $ 5.8 High $ $ 12.0 Low $ $ 2.1 (a) This column represents all energy derivative contracts, normal purchase and sales contracts, modeled generation output and fuel requirements and modeled customer load obligations for PHIs other energy commodity activities. For additional information about PHIs derivative activities refer to Note (2), Accounting for Derivatives and Note 13, Use of Derivatives in Energy and Interest Rate Hedging Activities of the Consolidated Financial Statements of Pepco Holdings included in Item 8. A significant portion of the Conectiv Energys portfolio of electric generating plants consists of mid merit assets and peaking assets. Mid merit electric generating plants are typically combined cycle units that can quickly change their megawatt output level on an economic basis. These plants are generally operated during times when demand for electricity rises and power prices are higher. Conectiv Energy economically hedges both the estimated plant output and fuel requirements as the estimated levels of output and fuel needs change. Economic hedge percentages include the estimated electricity output of Conectiv Energys generation plants and any associated financial or physical commodity contracts (including derivative contracts that are classified as cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133, other derivative instruments, wholesale normal purchase and sales contracts, and load service obligations). Conectiv Energy maintains a forward 36 month program with targeted ranges for economically hedging its projected on peak plant output combined with its on peak energy purchase commitments (based on the then current forward electricity price curve) as follows: Month Target Range 1 12 50 100% 13 24 25 75% 25 36 0 50% The primary purpose of the risk management program is to improve the predictability and stability of margins by selling forward a portion of its projected plant output, and buying forward a portion of its projected fuel supply requirements. Within each period, hedged percentages can vary significantly above or below the average reported percentages. 136 As of December 31, 2007, the electricity sold forward by Conectiv Energy as a percentage of projected on peak plant output combined with on peak energy purchase commitments was 94%, 98%, and 39% for the 1 12 month, 13 24 month and 25 36 month forward periods, respectively. Hedge percentages were above the target ranges for the 13 24 month period due to Conectiv Energys success in the default electricity supply auctions and a decrease in projected on peak plant output since the forward sale commitments were entered into. The amount of forward on peak sales during the 1 12 month period represents 22% of Conectiv Energys combined total on peak generating capability and on peak energy purchase commitments. The volumetric percentages for the forward periods can vary and may not represent the amount of expected value hedged. Not all of the value associated with Conectiv Energys generation activities can be hedged such as the portion attributable to ancillary services and fuel switching due to the lack of market products, market liquidity, and other factors. Also the hedging of locational value can be limited. Pepco Energy Services purchases electric and natural gas futures, swaps, options and forward contracts to hedge price risk in connection with the purchase of physical natural gas and electricity for delivery to customers. Pepco Energy Services accounts for its futures and swap contracts as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions. Its options contracts are marked to market through current earnings. Its forward contracts are accounted for using standard accrual accounting since these contracts meet the requirements for normal purchase and sale accounting under SFAS No. 133. Credit and Nonperformance Risk Pepco Holdings subsidiaries attempt to minimize credit risk exposure to wholesale energy counterparties through, among other things, formal credit policies, regular assessment of counterparty creditworthiness and the establishment of a credit limit for each counterparty, monitoring procedures that include stress testing, the use of standard agreements which allow for the netting of positive and negative exposures associated with a single counterparty and collateral requirements under certain circumstances, and have established reserves for credit losses. As of December 31, 2007, credit exposure to wholesale energy counterparties was weighted 74% with investment grade counterparties, 22% with counterparties without external credit quality ratings, and 4% with non investment grade counterparties. This table provides information on the Competitive Energy businesses credit exposure, net of collateral, to wholesale counterparties. 137 Schedule of Credit Risk Exposure on Competitive Wholesale Energy Contracts (Millions of dollars) December 31, 2007 Rating (a) Exposure Before Credit Collateral (b) Credit Collateral (c) Net Exposure Number of Counterparties Greater Than 10% (d) Net Exposure of Counterparties Greater Than 10% Investment Grade $116.5 $3.0 $113.5 1 $22.4 Non Investment Grade 7.1 .6 6.5 No External Ratings 34.6 .7 33.9 Credit reserves $ 1.7 (a) Investment Grade primarily determined using publicly available credit ratings of the counterparty. If the counterparty has provided a guarantee by a higher rated entity (e.g., its parent), it is determined based upon the rating of its guarantor. Included in Investment Grade are counterparties with a minimum Standard & Poors or Moodys Investor Service rating of BBB or Baa3, respectively. (b) Exposure Before Credit Collateral includes the marked to market (MTM) energy contract net assets for open/unrealized transactions, the net receivable/payable for realized transactions and net open positions for contracts not subject to MTM. Amounts due from counterparties are offset by liabilities payable to those counterparties to the extent that legally enforceable netting arrangements are in place. Thus, this column presents the net credit exposure to counterparties after reflecting all allowable netting, but before considering collateral held. (c) Credit Collateral the face amount of cash deposits, letters of credit and performance bonds received from counterparties, not adjusted for probability of default, and, if applicable, property interests (including oil and gas reserves). (d) Using a percentage of the total exposure. Interest Rate Risk Pepco Holdings manages interest rates through the use of fixed and, to a lesser extent, variable rate debt. Pepco Holdings and its subsidiaries variable or floating rate debt is subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. The effect of a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates on the annual interest costs for short term and variable rate debt was approximately $4.5 million as of December 31, 2007. Potomac Electric Power Company Interest Rate Risk Pepcos debt is subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. Pepco manages interest rates through the use of fixed and, to a lesser extent, variable rate debt. The effect of a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates on the annual interest costs for short term debt and variable rate debt was approximately $.9 million as of December 31, 2007. Delmarva Power & Light Company Commodity Price Risk DPL uses derivative instruments (forward contracts, futures, swaps, and exchange traded and over the counter options) primarily to reduce gas commodity price volatility while limiting its firm customers exposure to increases in the market price of gas. DPL also manages commodity risk with capacity contracts that do not meet the definition of derivatives. The primary goal of these activities is to reduce the exposure of its regulated retail gas customers to natural gas price spikes. All premiums paid and other transaction costs incurred as part of DPLs 138 natural gas hedging activity, in addition to all gains and losses on the natural gas hedging activity, are fully recoverable through the gas cost rate clause included in DPLs gas tariff rates approved by the Delaware Public Service Commission and are deferred under SFAS No. 71 until recovered. At December 31, 2007, DPL had a net deferred derivative payable of $13.1 million, offset by a $13.1 million regulatory asset. At December 31, 2006, DPL had a net deferred derivative payable of $27.3 million, offset by a $28.5 million regulatory asset. Interest Rate Risk DPLs debt is subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. DPL manages interest rates through the use of fixed and, to a lesser extent, variable rate debt. The effect of a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates on the annual interest costs for short term debt and variable rate debt was approximately $.9 million as of December 31, 2007. Atlantic City Electric Company Interest Rate Risk ACEs debt is subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. ACE manages interest rates through the use of fixed and, to a lesser extent, variable rate debt. The effect of a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates on the annual interest costs for short term debt and variable rate debt was approximately $.5 million as of December 31, 2007. 139 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The information required by this item is contained herein, as follows: Registrants Page No. Pepco Holdings 40 Pepco 107 DPL 117 ACE 127 38 THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK. 39 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PEPCO HOLDINGS, INC. GENERAL OVERVIEW In 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, PHIs Power Delivery operations produced 56%, 61%, and 58% of PHIs consolidated operating revenues (including revenues from intercompany transactions) and 66%, 67%, and 74% of PHIs consolidated operating income (including income from intercompany transactions). The Power Delivery business consists primarily of the transmission, distribution and default supply of electric power, which for 2007, 2006, and 2005, was responsible for 94%, 95%, and 94%, respectively, of Power Deliverys operating revenues. The distribution of natural gas contributed 6%, 5% and 6% of Power Deliverys operating revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Power Delivery represents one operating segment for financial reporting purposes. The Power Delivery business is conducted by PHIs three utility subsidiaries: Pepco, DPL and ACE. Each of these companies is a regulated public utility in the jurisdictions that comprise its service territory. Each company is responsible for the delivery of electricity and, in the case of DPL, natural gas in its service territory, for which it is paid tariff rates established by the local public service commission. Each company also supplies electricity at regulated rates to retail customers in its service territory who do not elect to purchase electricity from a competitive energy supplier. The regulatory term for this supply service varies by jurisdiction as follows: Delaware Provider of Last Resort service (POLR) before May 1, 2006 Standard Offer Service (SOS) on and after May 1, 2006 District of Columbia SOS Maryland SOS New Jersey Basic Generation Service (BGS) Virginia Default Service In this Form 10 K, these supply service obligations are referred to generally as Default Electricity Supply. Pepco, DPL and ACE are also responsible for the transmission of wholesale electricity into and across their service territories. The rates each company is permitted to charge for the wholesale transmission of electricity are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Transmission rates are updated annually based on a FERC approved formula methodology. The profitability of the Power Delivery business depends on its ability to recover costs and earn a reasonable return on its capital investments through the rates it is permitted to charge. 40 Power Deliverys operating results are seasonal, generally producing higher revenue and income in the warmest and coldest periods of the year. Operating results also can be affected by economic conditions, energy prices and the impact of energy efficiency measures on customer usage of electricity. Effective June 16, 2007, the Maryland Public Service Commission (MPSC) approved new electric service distribution base rates for Pepco and DPL (the 2007 Maryland Rate Order). The MPSC also approved a bill stabilization adjustment mechanism (BSA) for retail customers. See Regulatory and Other Matters Rate Proceedings. For customers to which the BSA applies, Pepco and DPL recognize distribution revenue based on an approved distribution charge per customer. From a revenue recognition standpoint, the BSA thus decouples the distribution revenue recognized in a reporting period from the amount of power delivered during the period. This change in the reporting of distribution revenue has the effect of eliminating changes in customer usage (whether due to weather conditions, energy prices, energy efficiency programs or other reasons) as a factor having an impact on reported revenue. As a consequence, the only factors that will cause distribution revenue to fluctuate from period to period are changes in the number of customers and changes in the approved distribution charge per customer. The Competitive Energy business provides competitive generation, marketing and supply of electricity and gas, and related energy management services primarily in the mid Atlantic region. These operations are conducted through subsidiaries of Conectiv Energy Holding Company (collectively, Conectiv Energy) and Pepco Energy Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, Pepco Energy Services), each of which is treated as a separate operating segment for financial reporting purposes. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the operating revenues of the Competitive Energy business (including revenue from intercompany transactions) were equal to 48%, 43%, and 48%, respectively, of PHIs consolidated operating revenues, and the operating income of the Competitive Energy business (including operating income from intercompany transactions) was 26%, 20%, and 16% of PHIs consolidated operating income for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, amounts equal to 10%, 13%, and 15% respectively, of the operating revenues of the Competitive Energy business were attributable to electric energy and capacity, and natural gas sold to the Power Delivery segment. Conectiv Energy provides wholesale electric power, capacity and ancillary services in the wholesale markets and also supplies electricity to other wholesale market participants under long and short term bilateral contracts. Conectiv Energy supplies electric power to Pepco, DPL and ACE to satisfy a portion of their Default Electricity Supply load, as well as default electricity supply load shares of other utilities within PJM RTO and ISONE wholesale markets. PHI refers to these activities as Merchant Generation & Load Service. Conectiv Energy obtains the electricity required to meet its Merchant Generation & Load Service power supply obligations from its own generation plants, bilateral contract purchases from other wholesale market participants, and purchases in the wholesale market. Conectiv Energy also sells natural gas and fuel oil to very large end users and to wholesale market participants under bilateral agreements. PHI refers to these sales operations as Energy Marketing. Pepco Energy Services provides retail energy supply and energy services primarily to commercial, industrial, and governmental customers. Pepco Energy 41 Services sells electricity and natural gas to customers primarily in the mid Atlantic region. Pepco Energy Services provides energy savings performance contracting services, owns and operates two district energy systems, and designs, constructs and operates combined heat and power and central energy plants. Pepco Energy Services provides high voltage construction and maintenance services to customers throughout the U.S. and low voltage electric construction and maintenance services and streetlight asset management services in the Washington, D.C. area and owns and operates electric generating plants in Washington, D.C. Conectiv Energys primary objective is to maximize the value of its generation fleet by leveraging its operational and fuel flexibilities. Pepco Energy Services primary objective is to capture retail energy supply and service opportunities predominantly in the mid Atlantic region. The financial results of the Competitive Energy business can be significantly affected by wholesale and retail energy prices, the cost of fuel and gas to operate the Conectiv Energy plants, and the cost of purchased energy necessary to meet its power and gas supply obligations. The Competitive Energy business, like the Power Delivery business, is seasonal, and therefore weather patterns can have a material impact on operating results. Through its subsidiary Potomac Capital Investment Corporation (PCI), PHI maintains a portfolio of cross border energy sale leaseback transactions with a book value at December 31, 2007 of approximately $1.4 billion. This activity constitutes a fourth operating segment, which is designated as Other Non Regulated, for financial reporting purposes. For a discussion of PHIs cross border leasing transactions, see Regulatory and Other Matters Federal Income Tax Treatment of Cross Border Leases in this Managements Discussion and Analysis. BUSINESS STRATEGY PHIs business strategy is to remain a regional diversified energy delivery utility and competitive energy services company focused on value creation and operational excellence. The components of this strategy include: Achieving earnings growth in the Power Delivery business by focusing on infrastructure investments and constructive regulatory outcomes, while maintaining a high level of operational excellence. Supplementing PHIs utility earnings through competitive energy businesses that focus on serving the competitive wholesale and retail markets primarily in PJM RTO. Pursuing technologies and practices that promote energy efficiency, energy conservation and the reduction of green house gas emissions. In furtherance of this business strategy, PHI may from time to time examine a variety of transactions involving its existing businesses, including the entry into joint ventures or the disposition of one or more businesses, as well as possible acquisitions. PHI also may reassess or refine the components of its business strategy as it deems necessary or appropriate in response to 42 a wide variety of factors, including the requirements of its businesses, competitive conditions and regulatory requirements. EARNINGS OVERVIEW Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2006 PHIs net income for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $334.2 million, or $1.72 per share, compared to $248.3 million, or $1.30 per share, for the year ended December 31, 2006. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2007, included the credits set forth below, which are presented net of federal and state income taxes and are in millions of dollars. The operating segment that recognized the credits is also indicated. Power Delivery Mirant bankruptcy damage claims settlement $ 20.0 Maryland income tax settlement, net of fees $ 17.7 Net income for year ended December 31, 2006, included the credits (charges) set forth below, which are presented net of federal and state income taxes and are in millions of dollars. The operating segment that recognized the credits (charges) is also indicated. Conectiv Energy Gain on the disposition of assets associated with a cogeneration facility $ 7.9 Pepco Energy Services Impairment losses related to certain energy services business assets $(13.7) Excluding the items listed above for the years ended December 31, net income would have been $296.5 million, or $1.53 per share, in 2007 and $254.1 million, or $1.33 per share, in 2006. PHIs net income for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, by operating segment, is set forth in the table below (in millions of dollars): 2007 2006 Change Power Delivery $ 231.8 $ 191.3 $ 40.5 Conectiv Energy 73.0 47.1 25.9 Pepco Energy Services 38.4 20.6 17.8 Other Non Regulated 45.8 50.2 (4.4) Corp. & Other (54.8) (60.9) 6.1 Total PHI Net Income $ 334.2 $ 248.3 $ 85.9 Discussion of Operating Segment Net Income Variances: Power Deliverys $40.5 million increase in earnings is primarily due to the following: 43 $20.0 million increase due to the recovery of operating expenses and certain other costs associated with the Mirant Corporation (Mirant) bankruptcy damage claims settlement. $17.7 million increase due to the settlement of a Maryland income tax refund claim relating to the divestiture of Pepco generation assets in 2000, net of $1.8 million (after tax) in professional fees. $24.2 million increase due to the impact of the Maryland distribution base rate increases that became effective June 16, 2007 for Pepco and DPL. $27.5 million increase primarily due to higher distribution sales (favorable impact of weather compared to 2006). $28.4 million decrease due to higher operating and maintenance costs (primarily electric system maintenance, various construction project write offs related to customer requested work, employee related costs, regulatory costs and increased bad debts expense). This variance does not include the $1.8 million (after tax) in professional fees associated with the Maryland income tax refund settlement. $13.7 million decrease primarily due to favorable income tax audit adjustments in 2006. $5.8 million decrease due to lower Default Electricity Supply margins primarily as a result of customers electing to purchase electricity from competitive suppliers and the impact of the Virginia Default Electricity Supply rate cap. Conectiv Energys $25.9 million increase in earnings is primarily due to the following: $40.8 million increase in Merchant Generation & Load Service primarily due to: (i) an increase of approximately $45.3 million due to higher generation output resulting from the favorable impact of weather and improved availability at the Hay Road and Deepwater generating stations and improved spark spreads, and (ii) an increase of approximately $15.3 million due to higher capacity prices due to the implementation of the PJM Reliability Pricing Model; partially offset by (iii) a decrease of approximately $19.8 million due to less favorable natural gas fuel hedges and the expiration in 2006 of an agreement with an international investment banking firm to hedge approximately 50% of the commodity price risk of Conectiv Energys generation and Default Electricity Supply commitment to DPL (see discussion under Conectiv Energy Gross Margin below). $7.9 million decrease due to the gain on disposition of assets associated with a co generation facility in 2006. $6.4 million decrease due to higher plant maintenance costs. Pepco Energy Services $17.8 million increase in earnings is primarily due to the following: 44 $12.4 million increase due to higher impairment losses on certain energy services business assets in 2006. $2.1 million increase from its retail energy supply businesses resulting from $11.6 million increase from its retail electric business due to higher installed capacity prices, higher volumes and more favorable congestion costs in 2007; partially offset by higher gains of $8.4 million on sale of excess electricity supply in 2006, and a $1.1 million decrease from its retail natural gas business due to higher cost of supply in 2007 (see discussion under Pepco Energy Services below). Other Non Regulateds $4.4 million decrease in earnings is primarily due to tax adjustments in 2006 that related to periods prior to the acquisition of Conectiv by Pepco and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. (FIN) 48 (FIN 48) impact in 2007; partially offset by lower interest expense in 2007. Corporate and Others $6.1 million increase in earnings is primarily due to prior year tax audit adjustments (tax benefits recorded by other segments and eliminated in consolidation through Corporate and Other); partially offset by higher interest expense in 2007. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following results of operations discussion compares the year ended December 31, 2007, to the year ended December 31, 2006. All amounts in the tables (except sales and customers) are in millions. Operating Revenue A detail of the components of PHIs consolidated operating revenue is as follows: 2007 2006 Change Power Delivery $ $ 5,244.2 $ 5,118.8 $ 125.4 Conectiv Energy 2,205.6 1,964.2 241.4 Pepco Energy Services 2,309.1 1,668.9 640.2 Other Non Regulated 76.2 90.6 (14.4) Corp. & Other (468.7) (479.6) 10.9 Total Operating Revenue $ $ 9,366.4 $ 8,362.9 $ 1,003.5 45 Power Delivery The following table categorizes Power Deliverys operating revenue by type of revenue. 2007 2006 Change Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ $ 1,631.8 $ $ 1,533.2 $ $ 98.6 Default Supply Revenue 3,256.9 3,271.9 (15.0) Other Electric Revenue 64.2 58.3 5.9 Total Electric Operating Revenue 4,952.9 4,863.4 89.5 Regulated Gas Revenue 211.3 204.8 6.5 Other Gas Revenue 80.0 50.6 29.4 Total Gas Operating Revenue 291.3 255.4 35.9 Total Power Delivery Operating Revenue $ $ 5,244.2 $ $ 5,118.8 $ $ 125.4 Regulated Transmission and Distribution (T&D) Electric Revenue includes revenue from the transmission and the delivery of electricity, including the delivery of Default Electricity Supply, by PHIs utility subsidiaries to customers within their service territories at regulated rates. Default Supply Revenue is the revenue received for Default Electricity Supply. The costs related to Default Electricity Supply are included in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales. Default Supply Revenue also includes revenue from transition bond charges and other restructuring related revenues. Other Electric Revenue includes work and services performed on behalf of customers, including other utilities, which is not subject to price regulation. Work and services includes mutual assistance to other utilities, highway relocation, rentals of pole attachments, late payment fees, and collection fees. Regulated Gas Revenue consists of revenues for on system natural gas sales and the transportation of natural gas for customers by DPL within its service territories at regulated rates. Other Gas Revenue consists of DPLs off system natural gas sales and the release of excess system capacity. Electric Operating Revenue Regulated T&D Electric Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ $ 606.0 $ $ 575.7 $ $ 30.3 Commercial 731.2 699.0 32.2 Industrial 27.4 28.6 (1.2) Other 267.2 229.9 37.3 Total Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ $ 1,631.8 $ $ 1,533.2 $ $ 98.6 Other Regulated T&D Electric Revenue consists primarily of (i) transmission service revenue received by PHIs utility subsidiaries from PJM as transmission owners, (ii) revenue from the resale of energy and capacity under power purchase agreements between Pepco and 46 unaffiliated third parties in the PJM RTO market, and (iii) either (a) a positive adjustment equal to the amount by which revenue from Maryland retail distribution sales falls short of the revenue that Pepco and DPL are entitled to earn based on the distribution charge per customer approved in the 2007 Maryland Rate Order or (b) a negative adjustment equal to the amount by which revenue from such distribution sales exceeds the revenue that Pepco and DPL are entitled to earn based on the approved distribution charge per customer (a Revenue Decoupling Adjustment). Regulated T&D Electric Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential 17,946 17,139 807 Commercial 29,398 28,638 760 Industrial 3,974 4,119 (145) Total Regulated T&D Electric Sales 51,318 49,896 1,422 Regulated T&D Electric Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 1,622 1,605 17 Commercial 199 198 1 Industrial 2 2 Total Regulated T&D Electric Customers 1,823 1,805 18 The Pepco, DPL and ACE service territories are located within a corridor extending from Washington, D.C. to southern New Jersey. These service territories are economically diverse and include key industries that contribute to the regional economic base. Commercial activity in the region includes banking and other professional services, government, insurance, real estate, strip malls, casinos, stand alone construction, and tourism. Industrial activity in the region includes automotive, chemical, glass, pharmaceutical, steel manufacturing, food processing, and oil refining. Regulated T&D Electric Revenue increased by $98.6 million primarily due to the following: (i) $43.0 million increase in sales due to higher weather related sales (a 17% increase in Cooling Degree Days and a 12% increase in Heating Degree Days), (ii) $28.8 million increase in Other Regulated T&D Electric Revenue from the resale of energy and capacity purchased under the power purchase agreement between Panda Brandywine, L.P. (Panda) and Pepco (the Panda PPA), (offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales), (iii) $20.3 million increase due to a 2007 Maryland Rate Order that became effective in June 2007, which includes a positive $4.9 million Revenue Decoupling Adjustment, (iv) $12.1 million increase due to higher pass through revenue primarily resulting from tax rate increases in the District of Columbia (offset primarily in Other Taxes), (v) $5.2 million increase due to customer growth of 1% in 2007, partially offset by (vi) $10.0 million decrease due to a change in Delaware rate structure effective May 1, 2006, which shifted revenue from Regulated T&D Electric Revenue to Default Supply Revenue, and (vii) $4.0 million decrease due to a Delaware base rate reduction effective May 1, 2006. 47 Default Electricity Supply Default Supply Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ $ 1,816.4 $ $ 1,482.9 $ $ 333.5 Commercial 1,061.8 1,352.6 (290.8) Industrial 92.1 108.2 (16.1) Other 286.6 328.2 (41.6) Total Default Supply Revenue $ $ 3,256.9 $ $ 3,271.9 $ $ (15.0) Other Default Supply Revenue consists primarily of revenue from the resale of energy and capacity under non utility generating contracts between ACE and unaffiliated third parties (NUGs) in the PJM RTO market. Default Electricity Supply Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential 17,469 16,698 771 Commercial 9,910 14,799 (4,889) Industrial 914 1,379 (465) Other 131 129 2 Total Default Electricity Supply Sales 28,424 33,005 (4,581) Default Electricity Supply Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 1,585 1,575 10 Commercial 166 170 (4) Industrial 1 1 Other 2 2 Total Default Electricity Supply Customers 1,754 1,748 6 Default Supply Revenue, which is partially offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales, decreased by $15.0 million primarily due to the following: (i) $345.5 million decrease primarily due to commercial and industrial customers electing to purchase an increased amount of electricity from competitive suppliers, (ii) $94.8 million decrease due to differences in consumption among the various customer rate classes, (iii) $46.3 million decrease in wholesale energy revenue primarily the result of the sales by ACE of its Keystone and Conemaugh interests and the B.L. England generating facilities, (iv) $4.1 million decrease due to a DPL adjustment to reclassify market priced supply revenue from Regulated T&D Electric Revenue in 2006, partially offset by (v) $379.1 million increase due to annual increases in market based Default Electricity Supply rates, (vi) $86.6 million increase due to higher weather related sales (a 17% increase in Cooling Degree Days and a 12% increase in Heating Degree Days), and (vii) $10.0 million increase due to a change in Delaware rate structure effective May 1, 2006 that shifted revenue from Regulated T&D Electric Revenue to Default Supply Revenue. 48 Other Electric Revenue Other Electric Revenue increased $5.9 million to $64.2 million in 2007 from $58.3 million in 2006 primarily due to increases in revenue related to pole rentals and late payment fees. Gas Operating Revenue Regulated Gas Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 124.0 $ 116.2 $ 7.8 Commercial 72.7 73.0 (.3 ) Industrial 8.2 10.3 (2.1 ) Transportation and Other 6.4 5.3 1.1 Total Regulated Gas Revenue $ 211.3 $ 204.8 $ 6.5 Regulated Gas Sales (Bcf) 2007 2006 Change Residential 7.9 6.6 1.3 Commercial 5.2 4.6 .6 Industrial .8 .8 Transportation and Other 6.8 6.3 .5 Total Regulated Gas Sales 20.7 18.3 2.4 Regulated Gas Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 112 112 Commercial 10 9 1 Industrial Transportation and Other Total Regulated Gas Customers 122 121 1 DPLs natural gas service territory is located in New Castle County, Delaware. Several key industries contribute to the economic base as well as to growth. Commercial activity in the region includes banking and other professional services, government, insurance, real estate, strip malls, stand alone construction and tourism. Industrial activity in the region includes automotive, chemical and pharmaceutical. Regulated Gas Revenue increased by $6.5 million primarily due to (i) $11.7 million increase due to colder weather (a 15% increase in Heating Degree Days), (ii) $5.7 million increase due to base rate increases effective in November 2006 and April 2007, (iii) $4.8 million 49 increase due to differences in consumption among the various customer rate classes, (iv) $2.7 million increase due to customer growth of 1% in 2007, partially offset by (v) $18.4 million decrease due to Gas Cost Rate (GCR) decreases effective November 2006, April 2007 and November 2007 resulting from lower natural gas commodity costs (offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales). Other Gas Revenue Other Gas Revenue increased by $29.4 million to $80.0 million in 2007 from $50.6 million in 2006 primarily due to higher off system sales (partially offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales). The gas sold off system resulted from increased demand from unaffiliated third party electric generators during periods of low customer demand for natural gas. Conectiv Energy The impact of Operating Revenue changes and Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales changes with respect to the Conectiv Energy component of the Competitive Energy business are encompassed within the discussion that follows. Operating Revenues of the Conectiv Energy segment are derived primarily from the sale of electricity. The primary components of its costs of sales are fuel and purchased power. Because fuel and electricity prices tend to move in tandem, price changes in these commodities from period to period can have a significant impact on Operating Revenue and costs of sales without signifying any change in the performance of the Conectiv Energy segment. For this reason, PHI from a managerial standpoint focuses on gross margin as a measure of performance. Conectiv Energy Gross Margin Merchant Generation & Load Service consists primarily of electric power, capacity and ancillary services sales from Conectiv Energys generating plants; tolling arrangements entered into to sell energy and other products from Conectiv Energys generating plants and to purchase energy and other products from generating plants of other companies; hedges of power, capacity, fuel and load; the sale of excess fuel (primarily natural gas) and emission allowances; electric power, capacity, and ancillary services sales pursuant to competitively bid contracts entered into with affiliated and non affiliated companies to fulfill their default electricity supply obligations; and fuel switching activities made possible by the multi fuel capabilities of some of Conectiv Energys power plants. Energy Marketing activities consist primarily of wholesale natural gas and fuel oil marketing; the activities of the short term power desk, which generates margin by capturing price differences between power pools and locational and timing differences within a power pool; and prior to October 31, 2006, operating services under an agreement with an unaffiliated generating plant. Beginning in 2007, power origination activities, which primarily represent the fixed margin component of structured power transactions such as default electricity supply contracts, have been classified into Energy Marketing from Merchant Generation & Load Service. The 2006 activity has been reclassified for comparative purposes accordingly. Power origination contributed $18.8 million and $18.7 million of gross margin for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 50 December 31, 2007 2006 Operating Revenue ($ millions): Merchant Generation & Load Service $ 1,086.8 $ 1,073.2 Energy Marketing 1,118.8 891.0 Total Operating Revenue1 $ 2,205.6 $ 1,964.2 Cost of Sales ($ millions): Merchant Generation & Load Service $ 805.8 $ 861.3 Energy Marketing 1,081.0 847.7 Total Cost of Sales2 $ 1,886.8 $ 1,709.0 Gross Margin ($ millions): Merchant Generation & Load Service $ 281.0 $ 211.9 Energy Marketing 37.8 43.3 Total Gross Margin $ 318.8 $ 255.2 Generation Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses ($ millions) 3: Generation Fuel Expenses 4,5 Natural Gas6 $ 267.8 $ 174.5 Coal 62.4 53.4 Oil 33.8 26.6 Other7 2.2 4.1 Total Generation Fuel Expenses $ 366.2 $ 258.6 Purchased Power Expenses 5 479.7 431.3 Statistics: 2007 2006 Generation Output (MWh): Base Load 8 2,232,499 1,814,517 Mid Merit (Combined Cycle) 9 3,341,716 2,081,873 Mid Merit (Oil Fired) 10 190,253 115,120 Peaking 146,486 131,930 Tolled Generation 160,755 94,064 Total 6,071,709 4,237,504 Load Service Volume (MWh) 11 7,075,743 8,514,719 Average Power Sales Price 12($/MWh): Generation Sales 4 $ 82.19 $ 77.69 Non Generation Sales 13 $ 70.43 $ 58.49 Total $ 74.34 $ 62.54 Average on peak spot power price at PJM East Hub ($/MWh) 14 $ 77.85 $ 65.29 Average around the clock spot power price at PJM East Hub ($/MWh) 14 $ 63.92 $ 53.07 Average spot natural gas price at market area M3 ($/MMBtu)15 $ 7.76 $ 7.31 Weather (degree days at Philadelphia Airport): 16 Heating degree days 4,560 4,205 Cooling degree days 1,513 1,136 1 Includes $441.5 million and $471.1 million of affiliate transactions for 2007 and 2006, respectively. The 2006 amount has been reclassified to exclude $193.1 million of intra affiliate transactions that were reported gross in 2006 at the segment level. 2 Includes $6.7 million and $4.6 million of affiliate transactions for 2007 and 2006, respectively. The 2006 amount has been reclassified to exclude $193.1 million of intra affiliate transactions that were reported gross in 2006 at the segment level. Also, excludes depreciation and amortization expense of $37.7 million and $36.3 million, respectively. 3 Consists solely of Merchant Generation & Load Service expenses; does not include the cost of fuel not consumed by the power plants and intercompany tolling expenses. 4 Includes tolled generation. 5 Includes associated hedging gains and losses. 6 Includes adjusted 2006 amount related to change in natural gas hedge allocation methodology. 7 Includes emissions expenses, fuel additives, and other fuel related costs. 8 Edge Moor Units 3 and 4 and Deepwater Unit 6. 9 Hay Road and Bethlehem, all units. 10 Edge Moor Unit 5 and Deepwater Unit 1. Generation output for these units was negative for the first and fourth quarters of 2006 because of station service consumption. 11 Consists of all default electricity supply sales; does not include standard product hedge volumes. 12 Calculated from data reported in Conectiv Energys Electric Quarterly Report (EQR) filed with the FERC; does not include capacity or ancillary services revenue. 13 Consists of default electricity supply sales, standard product power sales, and spot power sales other than merchant generation as reported in Conectiv Energys EQR. 14 Source: PJM website (www.pjm.com). 15 Source: Average delivered natural gas price at Tetco Zone M3 as published in Gas Daily. 16 Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration National Weather Service data. 51 Merchant Generation & Load Service gross margin increased $69.1 million primarily due to: An increase of approximately $76.5 million primarily due to 43% higher generation output attributable to more favorable weather and improved availability at the Hay Road and Deepwater generating plants and improved spark spreads. An increase of approximately $25.9 million due to higher capacity prices due to the implementation of the PJM Reliability Pricing Model. A decrease of $33.4 million due to less favorable natural gas fuel hedges, and the expiration, in 2006, of an agreement with an international investment banking firm to hedge approximately 50% of the commodity price risk of Conectiv Energys generation and Default Electricity Supply commitment to DPL. Energy Marketing gross margin decreased $5.5 million primarily due to: A decrease of $5.2 million due to lower margins in oil marketing. A decrease of $4.0 million due to lower margins in natural gas marketing. An increase of $2.7 million for adjustments related to an unaffiliated generation operating services agreement that expired in 2006. Pepco Energy Services Pepco Energy Services operating revenue increased $640.2 million, which corresponds with the increase in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Costs of Sales, to $2,309.1 million in 2007 from $1,668.9 million in 2006 primarily due to (i) increase of $646.0 million due to higher volumes of retail electric load served at higher prices in 2007 driven by customer acquisitions , (ii) increase of $27.4 million due to higher volumes of wholesale natural gas sales in 2007 that resulted from increased natural gas supply transactions to deliver gas to retail customers, partially offset by (iii) decrease of $32.3 million due primarily to lower construction activity in 2007 and to the sale of five construction businesses in 2006. Other Non Regulated Other Non Regulated operating revenue decreased $14.4 million to $76.2 million in 2007 from $90.6 million in 2006. The operating revenue of this segment primarily consists of lease earnings recognized under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13, Accounting for Leases. The revenue decrease is primarily due to a change in state income tax lease assumptions that resulted in increased revenue in 2006 as compared to 2007. 52 Operating Expenses Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales A detail of PHIs consolidated Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales is as follows: 2007 2006 Change Power Delivery $ 3,359.7 $ 3,303.6 $ 56.1 Conectiv Energy 1,886.8 1,709.0 177.8 Pepco Energy Services 2,161.7 1,531.1 630.6 Corp. & Other (464.9 ) (477.8 ) 12.9 Total $ 6,943.3 $ 6,065.9 $ 877.4 Power Delivery Power Deliverys Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales, which is primarily associated with Default Electricity Supply sales, increased by $56.1 million primarily due to: (i) $445.2 million increase in average energy costs, the result of new annual Default Electricity Supply contracts, (ii) $93.0 million increase due to an increase in weather related sales, (iii) $28.8 million increase for energy and capacity purchased under the Panda PPA (offset in T&D Electric Revenue), partially offset by (iv) $472.2 million decrease primarily due to commercial and industrial customers electing to purchase an increased amount of electricity from competitive suppliers, and (v) $36.4 million decrease in the Default Electricity Supply deferral balance. Fuel and Purchased Energy expense is primarily offset in Default Supply Revenue, Regulated Gas Revenue or Other Gas Revenue. Conectiv Energy The impact of Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales changes with respect to the Conectiv Energy component of the Competitive Energy business are encompassed within the prior discussion under the heading Conectiv Energy Gross Margin. Pepco Energy Services Pepco Energy Services Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales increased $630.6 million primarily due to (i) an increase of $635.7 million due to higher volumes of purchased electricity at higher prices in 2007 to serve increased retail customer load (ii) an increase of $39.9 million due to higher volumes of wholesale natural gas sales in 2007 that resulted from increased natural gas supply transactions to deliver gas to retail customers, partially offset by (iii) a decrease of $44.6 million due primarily to lower construction activity in 2007 and to the sale of five construction businesses in 2006. 53 Other Operation and Maintenance A detail of PHIs other operation and maintenance expense is as follows: 2007 2006 Change Power Delivery $ 667.0 $ 639.6 $ 27.4 Conectiv Energy 127.2 116.3 10.9 Pepco Energy Services 73.6 67.6 6.0 Other Non Regulated 3.5 4.2 (.7 ) Corp. & Other (13.8 ) (20.4 ) 6.6 Total $ 857.5 $ 807.3 $ 50.2 Other Operation and Maintenance expense of the Power Delivery segment increased by $27.4 million; however, excluding the favorable variance of $34.2 million primarily resulting from ACEs sale of the B.L. England electric generating facility in February 2007, Other Operation and Maintenance expenses increased by $61.6 million. The $61.6 million increase was primarily due to (i) $15.7 million increase in employee related costs, (ii) $10.6 million increase in preventative maintenance and system operation costs, (iii) $6.8 million increase in customer service operation expenses, (iv) $4.4 million increase in costs associated with Default Electricity Supply (primarily deferred and recoverable), (v) $3.5 million increase in regulatory expenses, (vi) $3.5 million increase in accounting service expenses, (vii) $3.4 million increase due to various construction project write offs related to customer requested work, (viii) $3.1 million increase in Demand Side Management program costs (offset in Deferred Electric Service Costs), and (ix) $2.8 million increase due to higher bad debt expenses. Other Operation and Maintenance expense for Conectiv Energy increased by $10.9 million primarily due to higher plant maintenance costs due to more scheduled outages in 2007 and higher costs of materials and labor. Other Operation and Maintenance expense for Pepco Energy Services increased by $6.0 million due to higher retail electric and gas operating costs to support the growth in the retail business in 2007. Other Operation and Maintenance expense for Corporate & Other increased by $6.6 million due to increased employee related costs. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and Amortization expenses decreased by $47.3 million to $365.9 million in 2007 from $413.2 million in 2006. The decrease is primarily due to (i) $31.1 million decrease in ACEs regulatory asset amortization resulting primarily from the 2006 sale of ACEs interests in Keystone and Conemaugh, and (ii) $19.1 million decrease in depreciation due to a change in depreciation rates in accordance with the 2007 Maryland Rate Order. 54 Other Taxes Other Taxes increased by $14.1 million to $357.1 million in 2007 from $343.0 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to increased pass throughs resulting from tax rate increases (partially offset in Regulated T&D Electric Revenue). Deferred Electric Service Costs Deferred Electric Service Costs, which relate only to ACE, increased by $46.0 million to $68.1 million in 2007 from $22.1 million in 2006. The increase is primarily due to (i) $37.5 million net over recovery associated with non utility generation contracts between ACE and unaffiliated third parties, (ii) $11.7 million net over recovery associated with BGS energy costs, partially offset by (iii) $3.2 million net under recovery associated with Demand Side Management program costs. Impairment Losses During 2007, Pepco Holdings recorded pre tax impairment losses of $2.0 million ($1.3 million after tax) related to certain energy services business assets owned by Pepco Energy Services. During 2006, Pepco Holdings recorded pre tax impairment losses of $18.9 million ($13.7 million after tax) related to certain energy services business assets owned by Pepco Energy Services. Effect of Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims The Effect of Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims reflects the recovery of $33.4 million in operating expenses and certain other costs as damages in the Mirant bankruptcy settlement. See Capital Resources and Liquidity Cash Flow Activity Proceeds from Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims. Income Tax Expense PHIs effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were 36.0% and 39.3%, respectively. The 3.3% decrease in the effective tax rate in 2007 was primarily the result of a 2007 Maryland state income tax refund. The refund was due to an increase in the tax basis of certain assets sold in 2000, and as a result, PHIs 2007 income tax expense was reduced by $19.5 million with a corresponding decrease to the effective tax rate of 3.7%. The following results of operations discussion compares the year ended December 31, 2006, to the year ended December 31, 2005. All amounts in the tables (except sales and customers) are in millions. Operating Revenue A detail of the components of PHIs consolidated operating revenue is as follows: 55 2006 2005 Change Power Delivery $ 5,118.8 $ 4,702.9 $ 415.9 Conectiv Energy 1,964.2 2,393.1 (428.9 ) Pepco Energy Services 1,668.9 1,487.5 181.4 Other Non Regulated 90.6 84.5 6.1 Corp. & Other (479.6 ) (602.5 ) 122.9 Total Operating Revenue $ 8,362.9 $ 8,065.5 $ 297.4 Power Delivery The following table categorizes Power Deliverys operating revenue by type of revenue. 2006 2005 Change Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 1,533.2 $ 1,623.2 $ (90.0 ) Default Supply Revenue 3,271.9 2,753.0 518.9 Other Electric Revenue 58.3 65.2 (6.9 ) Total Electric Operating Revenue 4,863.4 4,441.4 422.0 Regulated Gas Revenue 204.8 198.7 6.1 Other Gas Revenue 50.6 62.8 (12.2 ) Total Gas Operating Revenue 255.4 261.5 (6.1 ) Total Power Delivery Operating Revenue $ 5,118.8 $ 4,702.9 $ 415.9 Regulated T&D Electric Revenue includes revenue from the transmission and the delivery of electricity, including the delivery of Default Electricity Supply, by PHIs utility subsidiaries to customers within their service territories at regulated rates. Default Supply Revenue is the revenue received for Default Electricity Supply. The costs related to Default Electricity Supply are included in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales. Default Supply Revenue also includes revenue from transition bond charges and other restructuring related revenues. Other Electric Revenue includes work and services performed on behalf of customers, including other utilities, which is not subject to price regulation. Work and services includes mutual assistance to other utilities, highway relocation, rentals of pole attachments, late payment fees, and collection fees. Regulated Gas Revenue consists of revenues for on system natural gas sales and the transportation of natural gas for customers by DPL within its service territories at regulated rates. Other Gas Revenue consists of DPLs off system natural gas sales and the release of excess system capacity. 56 Electric Operating Revenue Regulated T&D Electric Revenue 2006 2005 Change Residential $ 575.7 $ 613.0 $ (37.3 ) Commercial 699.0 726.8 (27.8 ) Industrial 28.6 36.8 (8.2 ) Other 229.9 246.6 (16.7 ) Total Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 1,533.2 $ 1,623.2 $ (90.0 ) Other Regulated T&D Electric Revenue consists primarily of (i) transmission service revenue received by PHIs utility subsidiaries from PJM as transmission owners, and (ii) revenue from the resale of energy and capacity under power purchase agreements between Pepco and unaffiliated third parties in the PJM market. Regulated T&D Electric Sales (GWh) 2006 2005 Change Residential 17,139 18,045 (906) Commercial 28,638 29,441 (803) Industrial 4,119 4,288 (169) Total Regulated T&D Electric Sales 49,896 51,774 (1,878) Regulated T&D Electric Customers (in thousands) 2006 2005 Change Residential 1,605 1,591 14 Commercial 198 196 2 Industrial 2 2 Total Regulated T&D Electric Customers 1,805 1,789 16 Regulated T&D Revenue decreased by $90.0 million primarily due to the following: (i) $51.2 million decrease in sales due to weather, the result of a 16% decrease in Heating Degree Days and 12% decrease in Cooling Degree Days in 2006, (ii) $18.5 million decrease due to a change in Delaware rate structure effective May 1, 2006, which shifted revenue from Regulated T&D Electric Revenue to Default Supply Revenue, (iii) $17.1 million decrease in network transmission revenues due to lower rates approved by FERC in June 2006, (iv) $7.0 million decrease due to a Delaware base rate reduction effective May 1, 2006, primarily offset by (v) $12.9 million increase in sales due to a 0.9% increase in the number of customers. 57 Default Electricity Supply Default Supply Revenue 2006 2005 Change Residential $ 1,482.9 $ 1,161.6 $ 321.3 Commercial 1,352.6 995.4 357.2 Industrial 108.2 134.2 (26.0 ) Other 328.2 461.8 (133.6 ) Total Default Supply Revenue $ 3,271.9 $ 2,753.0 $ 518.9 Other Default Supply Revenue consists primarily of revenue from the resale of energy and capacity under non utility generating contracts between ACE and unaffiliated third parties (NUGs) in the PJM market. Default Electricity Supply Sales (GWh) 2006 2005 Change Residential 16,698 17,490 (792) Commercial 14,799 15,020 (221) Industrial 1,379 2,058 (679) Other 129 157 (28) Total Default Electricity Supply Sales 33,005 34,725 (1,720) Default Electricity Supply Customers (in thousands) 2006 2005 Change Residential 1,575 1,557 18 Commercial 170 181 (11) Industrial 1 2 (1) Other 2 2 Total Default Electricity Supply Customers 1,748 1,742 6 Default Supply Revenue, which is partially offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales, increased $518.9 million, representing an 18.8% increase despite a 5% decrease in GWh sales. This increase was primarily due to the following: (i) an increase of $709.3 million attributable to higher retail electricity rates, primarily resulting from market based rates beginning in Delaware on May 1, 2006 and annual increases in Default Electricity Supply rates during the year in the District of Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey, and Virginia, primarily offset by (ii) $142.1 million decrease in wholesale energy revenues from sales of generated and purchased energy in PJM due to lower market prices in the third quarter of 2006 and the sale by ACE of its interests in the Keystone and Conemaugh generating plants, effective September 1, 2006, and (iii) $93.1 million decrease in sales due to milder weather (a 16% decrease in Heating Degree Days and a 12% decrease in Cooling Degree Days in 2006). Other Electric Revenue Other Electric Revenue decreased $6.9 million to $58.3 million in 2006 from $65.2 million in 2005 primarily due to a decrease in customer requested work. 58 Gas Operating Revenue Regulated Gas Revenue 2006 2005 Change Residential $ $ 116.2 $ $ 115.0 $$ 1.2 Commercial 73.0 68.5 4.5 Industrial 10.3 10.6 (.3) Transportation and Other 5.3 4.6 .7 Total Regulated Gas Revenue $ $ 204.8 $ $ 198.7 $$ 6.1 Regulated Gas Sales (Bcf) 2006 2005 Change Residential 6.6 8.4 (1.8) Commercial 4.6 5.6 (1.0) Industrial .8 1.1 (.3) Transportation and Other 6.3 5.6 .7 Total Regulated Gas Sales 18.3 20.7 (2.4) Regulated Gas Customers (in thousands) 2006 2005 Change Residential 112 111 1 Commercial 9 9 Industrial Transportation and Other Total Regulated Gas Customers 121 120 1 Regulated Gas Revenue increased by $6.1 million primarily due to (i) $33.2 million increase primarily due to GCR increase effective November 1, 2005, as a result of higher natural gas commodity costs (primarily offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Costs of Sales expense), offset by (ii) $22.3 million decrease in sales due to milder weather (a 17% decrease in Heating Degree Days in 2006), and (iii) $4.8 million decrease primarily due to differences in consumption among various customer rate classes. Other Gas Revenue Other Gas Revenue decreased by $12.2 million to $50.6 million in 2006 from $62.8 million in 2005 primarily due to lower off system sales (partially offset in Gas Purchased expense). Conectiv Energy The impact of Operating Revenue changes and Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales changes with respect to the Conectiv Energy component of the Competitive Energy business are encompassed within the following discussion of gross margin. 59 Operating Revenues of the Conectiv Energy segment are derived primarily from the sale of electricity. The primary components of its costs of sales are fuel and purchased power. Because fuel and electricity prices tend to move in tandem, price changes in these commodities from period to period can have a significant impact on Operating Revenue and costs of sales without signifying any change in the performance of the Conectiv Energy segment. For this reason, PHI from a managerial standpoint focuses on gross margin as a measure of performance. Conectiv Energy Gross Margin Beginning in 2007, power origination activities, which primarily represent the fixed margin component of structured power transactions such as default electricity supply contracts, were classified into Energy Marketing from Merchant Generation & Load Service. Accordingly, the 2006 and 2005 activity has been reclassified for comparative purposes. Power origination contributed $18.7 million and $7.5 million of gross margin for 2006 and 2005, respectively. 60 December 31, 2006 2005 Operating Revenue ($ millions): Merchant Generation & Load Service $ 1,073.2 $ 1,193.6 Energy Marketing 891.0 1,199.5 Total Operating Revenue 1 $ 1,964.2 $ 2,393.1 Cost of Sales ($ millions): Merchant Generation & Load Service $ 861.3 $ 952.5 Energy Marketing 847.7 1,181.4 Total Cost of Sales 2 $ 1,709.0 $ 2,133.9 Gross Margin ($ millions): Merchant Generation & Load Service $ 211.9 $ 241.1 Energy Marketing 43.3 18.1 Total Gross Margin $ 255.2 $ 259.2 Generation Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses ($ millions) 3: Generation Fuel Expenses 4,5 Natural Gas6 $ 174.5 $ 223.5 Coal 53.4 46.7 Oil 26.6 104.6 Other7 4.1 4.9 Total Generation Fuel Expenses $ 258.6 $ 379.7 Purchased Power Expenses 5 431.3 539.0 Statistics: 2006 2005 Generation Output (MWh): Base Load 8 1,814,517 1,738,280 Mid Merit (Combined Cycle) 9 2,081,873 2,971,294 Mid Merit (Oil Fired) 10 115,120 694,887 Peaking 131,930 190,688 Tolled Generation 94,064 70,834 Total 4,237,504 5,665,983 Load Service Volume (MWh) 11 8,514,719 14,230,888 Average Power Sales Price 12 ($/MWh): Generation Sales 4 $ 77.69 $ 87.62 Non Generation Sales 13 $ 58.49 $ 53.16 Total $ 62.54 $ 60.12 Average on peak spot power price at PJM East Hub ($/MWh) 14 $ 65.29 $ 83.35 Average around the clock spot power price at PJM East Hub ($/MWh) 14 $ 53.07 $ 66.05 Average spot natural gas price at market area M3 ($/MMBtu)15 $ 7.31 $ 9.69 Weather (degree days at Philadelphia Airport): 16 Heating degree days 4,205 4,966 Cooling degree days 1,136 1,306 1 Includes $471.1 million and $591.3 million of affiliate transactions for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2006 and 2005 amounts have been reclassified to exclude $193.1 million and $210.5 million, respectively, of intra affiliate transactions that were reported gross in 2006 and 2005 at the segment level. 2 Includes $4.6 million and $7.2 million of affiliate transactions for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2006 and 2005 amounts have been reclassified to exclude $193.1 million and $210.5 million, respectively, of affiliate transactions that were reported gross in 2006 and 2005 at the segment level. Also, excludes depreciation and amortization expense of $36.3 million and $40.4 million, respectively. 3 Consists solely of Merchant Generation & Load Service expenses; does not include the cost of fuel not consumed by the power plants and intercompany tolling expenses. 4 Includes tolled generation. 5 Includes associated hedging gains and losses. 6 Includes adjusted amounts in 2006 and 2005 for change in natural gas hedge allocation methodology. 7 Includes emissions expenses, fuel additives, and other fuel related costs. 8 Edge Moor Units 3 and 4 and Deepwater Unit 6. 9 Hay Road and Bethlehem, all units. 10 Edge Moor Unit 5 and Deepwater Unit 1. 11 Consists of all default electricity supply sales; does not include standard product hedge volumes. 12 Calculated from data reported in Conectiv Energys Electric Quarterly Report (EQR) filed with the FERC; does not include capacity or ancillary services revenue. 13 Consists of default electricity supply sales, standard product power sales, and spot power sales other than merchant generation as reported in Conectiv Energys EQR. 14 Source: PJM website (www.pjm.com). 15 Source: Average delivered natural gas price at Tetco Zone M3 as published in Gas Daily. 16 Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration National Weather Service data. 61 Merchant Generation & Load Service gross margin decreased $29.2 million primarily due to: A decrease of $110.9 million due a 26% decline in output from Conectiv Energys generating plants primarily because of milder weather in 2006, coupled with lower spark spreads, lower contribution from sales of ancillary services and fuel switching activities, and an unplanned summer outage at the Hay Road generating facility. An increase of $73.2 million on fuel and power hedge contracts. An increase of $10.1 million due to a mark to market gain on a supply contract. Energy Marketing gross margin increased $25.2 million primarily due to: An increase of $11.2 million in power origination due to new higher margin contracts. An increase of $9.2 million due to improved inventory management in the oil marketing business. An increase of $7.7 million in the gas marketing business from gains on storage, transportation, and supply contracts. A decrease of $3.3 million due to the expiration and associated termination costs of a contract to provide operating services for an unaffiliated generation station which expired on October 31, 2006. Pepco Energy Services Pepco Energy Services operating revenue increased $181.4 million primarily due to (i) an increase of $265.6 million due to higher retail electricity customer load in 2006 and (ii) an increase of $44.3 million due to higher energy services project revenue in 2006 resulting from increased construction activity partially offset by lower revenue related to the sale of five businesses in 2006; partially offset by (iii) a decrease of $93.8 million due to lower natural gas volumes in 2006 as a result of fewer customers served and milder weather, (iv) a decrease of $29.0 million due to reduced electricity generation by the Benning and Buzzard power plants in 2006 due to milder weather and higher fuel oil prices, and (v) a decrease of $5.7 million in mass market products and services revenue, a business Pepco Energy Services exited in 2005. As of December 31, 2006, Pepco Energy Services had 3,544 megawatts of commercial and industrial load, as compared to 2,034 megawatts of commercial and industrial load at the end of 2005. In 2006, Pepco Energy Services power plants generated 89,578 megawatt hours of electricity as compared to 237,624 in 2005. Other Non Regulated Other Non Regulated revenue increased $6.1 million to $90.6 million in 2006 from $84.5 million in 2005. Operating revenues consist of lease earnings recognized under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 13 and changes to the carrying value of the other miscellaneous investments. 62 Operating Expenses Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales A detail of PHIs consolidated Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales is as follows: 2006 2005 Change Power Delivery $ 3,303.6 $ 2,720.5 $ 583.1 Conectiv Energy 1,709.0 2,133.9 (424.9 ) Pepco Energy Services 1,531.1 1,357.5 173.6 Corp. & Other (477.8 ) (599.9 ) 122.1 Total $ 6,065.9 $ 5,612.0 $ 453.9 Power Delivery Power Deliverys Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales, which is primarily associated with Default Electricity Supply sales, increased by $583.1 million primarily due to: (i) $736.8 million increase in average energy costs, resulting from higher costs of Default Electricity Supply contracts that went into effect primarily in June 2006 and 2005, offset by (ii) $155.5 million decrease primarily due to differences in consumption among the various customer rate classes (impact due to such factors as weather, migration, etc). This expense is primarily offset in Default Supply Revenue, Regulated Gas Revenue, and Other Gas Revenue. Conectiv Energy The impact of Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales changes with respect to the Conectiv Energy component of the Competitive Energy business are encompassed within the prior discussion under the heading Conectiv Energy Gross Margin. Pepco Energy Services Pepco Energy Services Fuel and Purchased Energy and Other Services Cost of Sales increased $173.6 million due to (i) a $246.5 million increase in purchases of electricity in 2006 to serve higher retail customer load and (ii) an increase of $37.2 million in costs due to higher energy services projects in 2006 as a result of increased construction activity; partially offset by (iii) a decrease of $87.6 million for purchases of natural gas due to lower volumes sold in 2006 as the result of fewer customers served and milder weather, (iv) a $17.6 million decrease in electricity generation costs in 2006 due to reduced electricity generation by the Benning and Buzzard power plants as a result of milder weather and higher fuel oil prices, (v) a $4.9 million decrease in mass market products and services costs, a business Pepco Energy Services exited in 2005, and (vi) decreased costs due to the sale of five companies in 2006. Other Operation and Maintenance A detail of PHIs other operation and maintenance expense is as follows: 63 2006 2005 Change Power Delivery $ 639.6 $ 643.1 $ (3.5 ) Conectiv Energy 116.3 107.7 8.6 Pepco Energy Services 67.6 71.2 (3.6 ) Other Non Regulated 4.2 5.2 (1.0 ) Corp. & Other (20.4 ) (11.5 ) (8.9 ) Total $ 807.3 $ 815.7 $ (8.4 ) The higher operation and maintenance expenses of the Conectiv Energy segment were primarily due to planned and unplanned facility outages. The impact of this increase was substantially offset by lower corporate expenses related to the amortization of non compete agreements and other administrative and general expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased by $14.1 million to $413.2 million in 2006, from $427.3 million in 2005. The decrease is primarily due to (i) $5.4 million change in depreciation technique resulting from the ACE distribution base rate case settlement in 2005 that depreciates assets over their whole life versus their remaining life, (ii) $4.1 million reduction of ACE regulatory debits, and (iii) $3 million reduction due to completion of amortization related to software, offset by net increases to plant in service (additions less retirements) of about $5.4 million. Deferred Electric Service Costs Deferred Electric Service Costs decreased by $98.1 million to $22.1 million in 2006 from $120.2 million in 2005. The $98.1 million decrease was attributable to (i) $92.4 million net under recovery associated with New Jersey BGS, NUGs, market transition charges and other restructuring items and (ii) $5.7 million in regulatory disallowances (net of amounts previously reserved) in connection with the ACE distribution base rate case settlement in 2005. Impairment Losses For the year ended December 31, 2006, Pepco Holdings recorded pre tax impairment losses of $18.9 million ($13.7 million after tax) related to certain energy services business assets owned by Pepco Energy Services. The impairments were recorded as a result of the execution of contracts to sell certain assets and due to the lower than expected production and related estimated cash flows from other assets. The fair value of the assets under contract for sale was determined based on the sales contract price; while the fair value of the other assets was determined by estimating future expected production and cash flows. Gain on Sale of Assets Pepco Holdings recorded a Gain on Sale of Assets of $.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to $86.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The $86.8 million gain in 2005 primarily consisted of: (i) a $68.1 million gain from the sale of non utility land owned by Pepco located at Buzzard Point in the District of Columbia, and (ii) a $13.3 million gain recorded by PCI from proceeds related to the final liquidation of a financial investment that was written off in 2001. 64 Effect of Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims The Effect of Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims of $70.5 million in 2005 represents a settlement (net of customer sharing) with Mirant of the allowed, pre petition general unsecured claim related to a transition power agreement (TPA) by Pepco in the Mirant bankruptcy in the amount of $105 million (the TPA Claim) ($70 million gain) and a Pepco asbestos claim against the Mirant bankruptcy estate ($.5 million gain). See Capital Resources and Liquidity Cash Flow Activity Proceeds from Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims. Other Income (Expenses) Other Expenses (which are net of other income) decreased by $3.1 million to $282.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $285.5 million for the same period in 2005. The decrease primarily resulted from an increase in income from equity fund valuations at PCI of $7.3 million and $2.3 in lower impairment charges during 2006 compared to 2005, partially offset by a $6.6 million gain in 2005 related to the sale of an investment. Income Tax Expense PHIs effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were 39.3% and 41.2%, respectively. The 1.9% decrease in the effective tax rate in 2006 was primarily the result of changes in estimates related to prior year tax liabilities, which reduced the effective tax rate by 2.3%. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY This section discusses Pepco Holdings working capital, cash flow activity, capital requirements and other uses and sources of capital. Working Capital At December 31, 2007, Pepco Holdings current assets on a consolidated basis totaled $2.0 billion and its current liabilities totaled $2.0 billion. At December 31, 2006, Pepco Holdings current assets on a consolidated basis totaled $2.0 billion and its current liabilities totaled $2.5 billion. The working capital deficit at the end of 2006 was primarily due to $500 million of current long term debt due to mature in August 2007. During 2007, PHI refinanced $450 million of the maturing debt with new long term debt. At December 31, 2007, Pepco Holdings cash and cash equivalents and its current restricted cash (cash that is available to be used only for designated purposes) totaled $69.6 million. At December 31, 2006, Pepco Holdings cash and cash equivalents and its current restricted cash, totaled $60.8 million. See Capital Requirements Contractual Arrangements with Credit Rating Triggers or Margining Rights for additional information. 65 A detail of PHIs short term debt balance and its current maturities of long term debt and project funding balance follows. As of December 31, 2007 (Millions of dollars) Type PHI Parent Pepco DPL ACE ACE Funding Conectiv Energy Pepco Energy Services PCI Conectiv PHI Consolidated Variable Rate Demand Bonds $ $ $104.8 $22.6 $ $ $24.3 $ $ $151.7 Commercial Paper 84.0 24.0 29.1 137.1 Total Short Term Debt $ $ 84.0 $128.8 $51.7 $ $ $24.3 $ $ $288.8 Current Maturities of Long Term Debt and Project Funding $ $128.0 $ 22.6 $50.0 $31.0 $ $ 8.6 $92.0 $ $332.2 As of December 31, 2006 (Millions of dollars) Type PHI Parent Pepco DPL ACE ACE Funding Conectiv Energy Pepco Energy Services PCI Conectiv PHI Consolidated Variable Rate Demand Bonds $ $ $104.8 $22.6 $ $ $26.8 $ $ $154.2 Commercial Paper 36.0 67.1 91.1 1.2 195.4 Total Short Term Debt $ 36.0 $ 67.1 $195.9 $23.8 $ $ $26.8 $ $ $349.6 Current Maturities of Long Term Debt and Project Funding $500.0 $210.0 $ 64.7 $16.0 $29.9 $ $ 2.6 $34.3 $ $857.5 Cash Flow Activity PHIs cash flows for 2007, 2006, and 2005 are summarized below. Cash Source (Use) 2007 2006 2005 (Millions of dollars) Operating Activities $ 795.0 $ 202.6 $ 986.9 Investing Activities (581.6) (229.1) (333.9) Financing Activities (207.1) (46.2) (561.0) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 6.3 $ (72.7) $ 92.0 66 Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities are summarized below for 2007, 2006, and 2005. Cash Source (Use) 2007 2006 2005 (Millions of dollars) Net Income $ 334.2 $ 248.3 $ 371.2 Non cash adjustments to net income 382.3 613.0 161.2 Changes in working capital 78.5 (658.7) 454.5 Net cash from operating activities $ 795.0 $ 202.6 $ 986.9 Net cash from operating activities in 2007 was $592.4 million higher than in 2006. In addition to net income, the factors that primarily contributed to the increase were: (i) a decrease of $202.9 million in taxes paid in 2007, partially attributable to a tax payment of $121 million made in February 2006 in connection with an unresolved tax matter (see Regulatory and Other Matters IRS Mixed Service Cost Issue below) and (ii) the change in cash collateral requirements detailed below associated with Competitive Energy activities. Changes in cash collateral include the following: The balance of cash collateral posted by PHI (net of cash collateral held by PHI) decreased $61.7 million from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2007 (an increase in cash). The balance of cash collateral posted by PHI (net of cash collateral held by PHI) increased $259.9 million from December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2006 (a decrease in cash). Cash flows from operating activities in 2007 also were affected by the Mirant bankruptcy settlement. See Proceeds from Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims below. During the third quarter of 2007, Pepco Holdings received $413.9 million in net settlement proceeds, of which $398.9 million was designated as operating cash flows and $15.0 million was designated as investing cash flows. See Investing Activities below. These funds were used to purchase money market funds, which are considered cash equivalents, and have been accounted for as restricted cash based on managements intent only to use such funds, and any interest earned thereon, to pay for the future above market capacity and energy purchase costs under the Panda PPA. This restricted cash has been classified as a non current asset to be consistent with the classification of the corresponding non current regulatory liability, and any changes in the balance of this restricted cash, including interest receipts, have been considered operating cash flows. Net cash from operating activities in 2006 was $784.3 million lower than in 2005. In addition to the decrease in net income, the factors contributing to the decrease in cash flow from operating activities included: (i) an increase of $194.5 million in taxes paid in 2006, including a tax payment of $121 million made in February 2006 in connection with an unresolved tax matter (see Regulatory and Other Matters IRS Mixed Service Cost Issue below), (ii) a decrease in the change in regulatory assets and liabilities of $107.9 million due primarily to the 2005 over 67 recoveries associated with New Jersey BGS, NUGs, market transition charges and other restructuring items, and (iii) the change in collateral requirements associated with the activities of Competitive Energy described above. Investing Activities Cash flows used by investing activities during 2007, 2006, and 2005 are summarized below. Cash (Use) Source 2007 2006 2005 (Millions of dollars) Construction expenditures $ (623.4) $ (474.6) $ (467.1) Cash proceeds from sale of properties 11.2 181.5 84.1 All other investing cash flows, net 30.6 64.0 49.1 Net cash used by investing activities $ (581.6) $ (229.1) $ (333.9) Net cash used by investing activities in 2007 was $352.5 million higher than in 2006 primarily due to: (i) a $148.8 million increase in capital expenditures, $107.0 million of which relates to Power Delivery, and (ii) a decrease of $170.3 million in cash proceeds from the sale of property. The increase in Power Delivery capital expenditures is primarily due to major transmission projects and new substations for Pepco and ACE. The proceeds from the sale of property in 2006 consisted primarily of $177.0 million from the sale of ACEs interest in the Keystone and Conemaugh generating facilities and $13.1 million from the sale of Conectiv Energys equity interest in a joint venture which owns a wood burning cogeneration facility. Proceeds from the sale of property in 2007 consisted primarily of $9.0 million received from the sale of the B.L. England generating facility. Cash flows from investing activities in 2007 also include $15.0 million of the net settlement proceeds received by Pepco in the Mirant bankruptcy settlement that were specifically designated as a reimbursement of certain investments in property, plant and equipment. Net cash used by investing activities in 2006 were $104.8 million lower than in 2005. The decrease is primarily due to the net proceeds of $177.0 million received in 2006 from the sale of ACEs interest in the Keystone and Conemaugh generating facilities, compared to the $73.7 million in proceeds received in 2005 from the sale of the Buzzard Point land. 68 Financing Activities Cash flows used by financing activities during 2007, 2006 and 2005 are summarized below. Cash (Use) Source 2007 2006 2005 (Millions of dollars) Dividends paid on common and preferred stock $ (202.9) $ (199.5) $ (191.4) Common stock issued through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRP) 28.0 29.8 27.5 Issuance of common stock 199.6 17.0 5.7 Redemption of preferred stock of subsidiaries (18.2) (21.5) (9.0) Issuances of long term debt 703.9 514.5 532.0 Reacquisition of long term debt (854.9) (578.0) (755.8) (Repayments) issuances of short term debt, net (58.3) 193.2 (161.3) All other financing cash flows, net (4.3) (1.7) (8.7) Net cash used by financing activities $ (207.1) $ (46.2) $ (561.0) Net cash used by financing activities in 2007 was $160.9 million higher than in 2006. Net cash used by financing activities in 2006 was $514.8 million lower than in 2005. Changes in Outstanding Common Stock In November 2007, PHI sold 6.5 million shares of common stock in a registered offering at a price per share of $27.00, resulting in gross proceeds of $175.5 million. The net proceeds are being used for general corporate purposes. The balance of the change in 2007 common stock is primarily attributable to the issuance of performance based shares under the long term incentive plan. Under the DRP, PHI issued 979,155 shares of common stock in 2007, 1,232,569 shares of common stock in 2006, and 1,228,505 shares of common stock in 2005. Common Stock Dividends Common stock dividend payments were $202.6 million in 2007, $198.3 million in 2006, and $188.9 million in 2005. The increase in common dividends paid in 2007 was due primarily to an issuance of the additional shares under the DRP. The increase in common dividends paid in 2006 was due to the issuance of the additional shares under the DRP and a quarterly dividend increase from 25 cents per share to 26 cents per share beginning in the first quarter of 2006. Changes in Outstanding Preferred Stock Preferred stock redemptions in 2007 consisted of DPLs redemption in January 2007, at prices ranging from 103% to 105% of par, of the following securities, representing all of DPLs outstanding preferred stock, at an aggregate cost of $18.9 million: 19,809 shares of 4.00% Series, 1943 Redeemable Serial Preferred Stock, 69 39,866 shares of 3.70% Series, 1947 Redeemable Serial Preferred Stock, 28,460 shares of 4.28% Series, 1949 Redeemable Serial Preferred Stock, 19,571 shares of 4.56% Series, 1952 Redeemable Serial Preferred Stock, 25,404 shares of 4.20% Series, 1955 Redeemable Serial Preferred Stock, and 48,588 shares of 5.00% Series, 1956 Redeemable Serial Preferred Stock. Preferred stock redemptions in 2006 consisted of Pepcos redemption in March 2006 of the following securities at an aggregate cost of $21.5 million: 216,846 shares of $2.44 Series, 1957 Serial Preferred Stock, 99,789 shares of $2.46 Series, 1958 Serial Preferred Stock, and 112,709 shares of $2.28 Series, 1965 Serial Preferred Stock. Preferred stock redemptions in 2005 consisted of: Pepcos redemption in October 2005 of the following securities at an aggregate cost of $5.5 million: o 22,795 shares of $2.44 Series 1957 Serial Preferred Stock, o 74,103 shares of $2.46 Series 1958 Serial Preferred Stock, and o 13,148 shares of $2.28 Series 1965 Serial Preferred Stock. ACEs redemption in August 2005 of 160 shares of 4.35% Serial Preferred Stock at a cost of $.02 million, and DPLs redemption in December 2005 of all of the 35,000 shares of 6.75% Serial Preferred Stock outstanding at a cost of $3.5 million. Changes in Outstanding Long Term Debt Cash flows from the issuance and redemption of long term debt in 2007 were attributable primarily to the following transactions, which encompass $700.0 million of the $703.9 million in long term debt issued in 2007 and all of the $854.9 million in long term debt redeemed in 2007: In January 2007, Pepco retired at maturity $35 million of 7.64% medium term notes and also retired at maturity $175 million of 6.25% first mortgage bonds using the proceeds of commercial paper. In November 2007, Pepco issued $250 million of 6.5% first mortgage bonds. 70 In February 2007, DPL retired at maturity $11.5 million of medium term notes with a weighted average interest rate of 7.08%. In the second quarter of 2007, DPL retired at maturity $50 million of 8.125% medium term notes and $3.2 million of 6.95% first mortgage bonds. In the second quarter of 2007, ACE retired at maturity $15 million of 7.52% medium term notes and $1 million of 7.15% medium term notes. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Atlantic City Electric Transition Funding LLC (ACE Funding) made principal payments of $21.4 million on Series 2002 1 Bonds, Class A 1 and $8.5 million on Series 2003 1, Class A 1 with a weighted average interest rate of 2.89%. In February 2007, PCI retired at maturity $34.3 million of 7.62% medium term notes. In April 2007, PHI issued $200 million of 6.0% notes due 2019 in a private placement. The proceeds were used to redeem $200 million of 5.5% notes due August 15, 2007 at a price of 100.0377% of par. In June 2007, PHI issued $250 million of 6.125% notes due 2017 in a public offering and used the proceeds along with short term debt to redeem $300 million of its 5.5% notes in August 2007. Cash flows from the issuance and redemption of long term debt in 2006 were attributable primarily to the following transactions, which encompass all of the $514.5 million of long term debt issued in 2006 and $576.4 million of the $578.0 million of the long term debt redeemed in 2006: In May 2006, Pepco used the proceeds from a bond refinancing to redeem an aggregate of $109.5 million of three series of first mortgage bonds. The series were combined into one series of $109.5 million due 2022. In December 2006, Pepco retired at maturity $50 million of variable rate notes. In June 2006, DPL redeemed $2.9 million of 6.95% first mortgage bonds due 2008. In October 2006, DPL retired at maturity $20 million of medium term notes. In December 2006, DPL issued $100 million of 5.22% unsecured notes due 2016. The proceeds were used to redeem DPLs commercial paper outstanding. In the first quarter of 2006, PHI retired at maturity $300 million of its 3.75% unsecured notes with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. In December 2006, PHI issued $200 million of 5.9% unsecured notes due 2016. The net proceeds, plus additional funds, were used to repay a $250 million bank loan entered into in August 2006. In January 2006, ACE retired at maturity $65 million of medium term notes. 71 In March 2006, ACE issued $105 million of Senior Notes due 2036. The proceeds were used to pay down short term debt incurred earlier in the quarter to repay medium term notes at maturity. For the year ended December 31, 2006, ACE Funding made principal payments of $20.7 million on Series 2002 1 Bonds, Class A 1 and $8.3 million on Series 2003 1, Class A 1 with a weighted average interest rate of 2.89%. Cash flows from the issuance and redemption of long term debt in 2005 were attributable primarily to the following transactions, which encompass $525 million of the $532 million of long term debt issued in 2005 and $727.7 million of the $755.8 million of long term debt redeemed in 2005: In 2005, Pepco Holdings issued $250 million of floating rate unsecured notes due 2010. The net proceeds, plus additional funds, were used to repay commercial paper issued to fund the $300 million redemptions of Conectiv debt. In September 2005, Pepco used the proceeds from the June 2005 issuance of $175 million in senior secured notes to fund the retirement of $100 million in first mortgage bonds at maturity as well as the redemption of $75 million in first mortgage bonds prior to maturity. In 2005, DPL issued $100 million of unsecured notes due 2015. The net proceeds were used to redeem $102.7 million of higher rate securities. In December 2005, Pepco paid down $50 million of its $100 million bank loan due December 2006. In 2005, ACE retired at maturity $40 million of medium term notes. In 2005, PCI redeemed $60 million of medium term notes. PHIs long term debt is subject to certain covenants. PHI and its subsidiaries are in compliance with all requirements. Changes in Short Term Debt In 2007, PHI redeemed a total of $36.0 million in short term debt with cash from operations. In 2006, Pepco and DPL issued short term debt of $67.1 million and $91.1 million, respectively, in order to cover capital expenditures and tax obligations throughout the year. In 2005, ACE and PHI redeemed a total of $161.3 million in short term debt with cash from operations. 72 Sales of ACE Generating Facilities On September 1, 2006, ACE completed the sale of its interest in the Keystone and Conemaugh generating facilities for $175.4 million (after giving effect to post closing adjustments). On February 8, 2007, ACE completed the sale of the B.L. England generating facility for a price of $9.0 million. No gain or loss was realized on these sales. Sale of Interest in Cogeneration Joint Venture During the first quarter of 2006, Conectiv Energy recognized a $12.3 million pre tax gain ($7.9 million after tax) on the sale of its equity interest in a joint venture which owns a wood burning cogeneration facility. Proceeds from Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims In 2000, Pepco sold substantially all of its electricity generating assets to Mirant. In 2003, Mirant commenced a voluntary bankruptcy proceeding in which it sought to reject certain obligations that it had undertaken in connection with the asset sale. As part of the asset sale, Pepco entered into the TPAs. Under a settlement to avoid the rejection by Mirant of its obligations under the TPAs in the bankruptcy proceeding, the terms of the TPAs were modified to increase the purchase price of the energy and capacity supplied by Mirant and Pepco received the TPA Claim. In December 2005, Pepco sold the TPA Claim, plus the right to receive accrued interest thereon, to an unaffiliated third party for $112.5 million. In addition, Pepco received proceeds of $.5 million in settlement of an asbestos claim against the Mirant bankruptcy estate. After customer sharing, Pepco recorded a pre tax gain of $70.5 million from the settlement of these claims. In connection with the asset sale, Pepco and Mirant also entered into a back to back arrangement, whereby Mirant agreed to purchase from Pepco the 230 megawatts of electricity and capacity that Pepco is obligated to purchase annually through 2021 from Panda under the Panda PPA at the purchase price Pepco is obligated to pay to Panda. As part of the further settlement of Pepcos claims against Mirant arising from the Mirant bankruptcy, Pepco agreed not to contest the rejection by Mirant of its obligations under the back to back arrangement in exchange for the payment by Mirant of damages corresponding to the estimated amount by which the purchase price that Pepco is obligated to pay Panda for the energy and capacity exceeded the market price. In 2007, Pepco received as damages $413.9 million in net proceeds from the sale of shares of Mirant common stock issued to it by Mirant. These funds are being accounted for as restricted cash based on managements intent to use such funds, and any interest earned thereon, for the sole purpose of paying for the future above market capacity and energy purchase costs under the Panda PPA. Correspondingly, a regulatory liability has been established in the same amount to help offset the future above market capacity and energy purchase costs. This restricted cash has been classified as a non current asset to be consistent with the classification of the non current regulatory liability, and any changes in the balance of this restricted cash, including interest on the invested funds, are being accounted for as operating cash flows. As of December 31, 2007, the balance of the restricted cash account was $417.3 million. Based on a reexamination of the costs of the Panda PPA in light of current and projected wholesale market conditions conducted in the fourth quarter of 2007, Pepco determined that, principally due to increases in wholesale capacity prices, the present value above market cost of 73 the Panda PPA over the term of the agreement are expected to be significantly less than the current amount of the restricted cash account balance. Accordingly, on February 22, 2008, Pepco filed applications with the DCPSC and the MPSC requesting orders directing Pepco to maintain $320 million in the restricted cash account and to use that cash, and any future earnings on the cash, for the sole purpose of paying the future above market cost of the Panda PPA (or, in the alternative, to fund a transfer or assignment of the remaining obligations under the Panda PPA to a third party). Pepco also requested that the order provide that any cash remaining in the account at the conclusion of the Panda PPA be refunded to customers and that any shortfall be recovered from customers. Pepco further proposed that the excess proceeds remaining from the settlement (approximately $94.6 million, representing the amount by which the regulatory liability of $414.6 million at December 31, 2007 exceeded $320 million) be shared approximately equally with its customers in accordance with the procedures previously approved by each commission for the sharing of the proceeds received by Pepco from the sale to Mirant of its generating assets. The regulatory liability of $414.6 million at December 31, 2007 differs from the restricted cash amount of $417.3 million on that date, in part, because the regulatory liability has been reduced for the portion of the December 2007 Panda charges in excess of market that had not yet been paid from the restricted cash account. The amount of the restricted cash balance that Pepco is permitted to retain will be recorded as earnings upon approval of the sharing arrangement by the respective commissions. At this time, Pepco cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. In settlement of other damages claims against Mirant, Pepco in 2007 also received a settlement payment in the amount of $70.0 million. Of this amount (i) $33.4 million was recorded as a reduction in operating expenses, (ii) $21.0 million was recorded as a reduction in a net pre petition receivable claim from Mirant, (iii) $15.0 million was recorded as a reduction in the capitalized costs of certain property, plant and equipment and (iv) $.6 million was recorded as a liability to reimburse a third party for certain legal costs associated with the settlement. Sale of Buzzard Point Property In August 2005, Pepco sold for $75 million excess non utility land located at Buzzard Point in the District of Columbia. The sale resulted in a pre tax gain of $68.1 million which was recorded as a reduction of Operating Expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Financial Investment Liquidation In October 2005, PCI received $13.3 million in cash and recorded an after tax gain of $8.9 million related to the liquidation of a financial investment that was written off in 2001. Capital Requirements Capital Expenditures Pepco Holdings total capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2007 totaled $623.4 million of which $272.2 million related to Pepco (excluding $15 million of reimbursements related to the settlement of the Mirant bankruptcy claims), $132.6 million related to DPL and $149.4 million related to ACE. The remainder of $69.2 million was primarily related to Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services. The Power Delivery expenditures were primarily related to capital costs associated with new customer services, distribution reliability, and transmission. 74 The table below shows the projected capital expenditures for Pepco, DPL, ACE, Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services for the five year period 2008 through 2012. For the Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total (Millions of Dollars) Pepco Distribution $ 192 $ 215 $ 212 $ 232 $ 331 $ 1,182 Distribution Blueprint for the Future 24 61 61 63 5 214 Transmission 45 64 167 168 62 506 MAPP 17 72 30 119 Other 15 17 12 12 11 67 DPL Distribution 101 118 124 124 138 605 Distribution Blueprint for the Future 22 58 59 30 9 178 Transmission 57 52 45 57 52 263 MAPP 11 107 210 271 185 784 Gas Delivery 23 24 19 19 18 103 Other 10 10 9 7 7 43 ACE Distribution 96 107 101 109 111 524 Distribution Blueprint for the Future 15 11 16 20 85 147 Transmission 78 17 25 45 47 212 MAPP 1 2 3 6 Other 10 10 8 7 5 40 Total for Power Delivery Business 716 943 1,099 1,166 1,069 4,993 Conectiv Energy 155 229 161 28 9 582 Pepco Energy Services 21 13 13 14 15 76 Corporate 4 2 2 2 2 12 Total PHI $ 896 $ 1,187 $ 1,275 $ 1,210 $ 1,095 $ 5,663 Pepco Holdings expects to fund these expenditures through internally generated cash and external financing. Distribution, Transmission and Gas Delivery The projected capital expenditures for distribution (other than Blueprint for the Future), transmission (other than MAPP) and gas delivery are primarily for facility replacements and upgrades to accommodate customer growth and reliability. Blueprint for the Future During 2007, Pepco, DPL and ACE each announced an initiative that it refers to as the Blueprint for the Future. These initiatives combine traditional energy efficiency programs with new technologies and systems to help customers manage their energy use and reduce the total cost of energy. The programs include Demand side management efforts, such as rebates or other financial incentives for residential customers to replace inefficient appliances and for business customers to use more energy efficient equipment, such as improved lighting and HVAC systems. Under the programs, customers also could receive credits on their bills for allowing the utility company to cycle, or intermittently turn off, their central air conditioning or heat pumps when wholesale electricity prices are high. The programs contemplate that business customers would receive financial incentives for using energy efficient equipment, and would be rewarded for reducing use during periods of peak demand. Additionally, Pepco and DPL intend to install smart meters for all customers in the District of Columbia, Maryland and 75 Delaware, providing the utilities with the ability to remotely read the meters and identify the location of a power outage. Pepco, DPL and ACE have made filings with their respective regulatory commissions for approval of certain aspects of these programs. The projected costs for PHIs utility subsidiaries for the years 2008 through 2012 are included in the table above. MAPP Project On October 17, 2007, PHI received the approval of the PJM Board of Managers to build a new 230 mile, 500 kilovolt interstate transmission line as part of PJMs Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to address the reliability objectives of the PJM RTO system. The transmission line, which is referred to as the MAPP Project, will be located in northern Virginia, Maryland, the Delmarva Peninsula, and New Jersey. The preliminarily estimated cost of the MAPP Project is approximately $1 billion. Construction is expected to occur in sections over a six year period with completion targeted by 2013. PHI also plans to add significant 230 kilovolt support lines in Maryland and New Jersey to connect with the new 500 kilovolt line at an approximate cost of $200 million. PJM continues to evaluate the 230 kilovolt support lines. Only the projected construction costs associated with the 500 kilovolt transmission line for the years 2008 through 2012 are included in the table above. Delta Project On December 14, 2007, Conectiv Energy announced a decision to construct a 545 MW natural gas and oil fired combined cycle electricity generation plant to be located in Peach Bottom Township, Pennsylvania (Delta Project). The total construction expenditures for the Delta Project are expected to be $470 million, with projected expenditures of $62 million in 2008, $195 million in 2009, $136 million in 2010, and $14 million in 2011, and are included in Conectiv Energys projected capital expenditures shown in the table above. The total expenditures include $63 million in development costs and three combustion turbines currently held in inventory by Conectiv Energy. The plant is expected to become operational by June 2011. Cumberland Project In 2007, Conectiv Energy began construction of a new combustion turbine power plant in Millville, New Jersey. The total construction expenditures for this project are expected to be $75 million (of which $24 million was expended in 2007), with projected expenditures of $46 million in 2008 and $5 million in 2009. These future expenditures are included in Conectiv Energys projected capital expenditures shown in the table above. Compliance with Delaware Multipollutant Regulations As required by the Delaware multipollutant emissions regulations adopted by the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, PHI, in June 2007, filed a compliance plan for controlling nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and mercury emissions from its Edge Moor power plant. The plan includes installation of a sodium based sorbent injection system and a Selective Non Catalytic Reduction (SNCR) system and carbon injection for Edge Moor Units 3 and 4, and use of an SNCR system and lower sulfur oil at Edge Moor Unit 5. Conectiv Energy currently believes that with these modifications, it will be able to meet the requirements of the new regulations at an estimated capital cost of $79 million. The compliance plan filed by Conectiv Energy contemplates capital expenditures of $38 million of capital in 2008 and $19 million of capital in 2009. 76 Dividends Pepco Holdings annual dividend rate on its common stock is determined by the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis and takes into consideration, among other factors, current and possible future developments that may affect PHIs income and cash flows. In 2007, PHIs Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends of 26 cents per share of common stock payable on March 30, 2007, June 29, 2007, September 28, 2007 and December 31, 2007. On January 24, 2008, the Board of Directors declared a dividend on common stock of 27 cents per share payable March 31, 2008, to shareholders of record March 10, 2008. PHI generates no operating income of its own. Accordingly, its ability to pay dividends to its shareholders depends on dividends received from its subsidiaries. In addition to their future financial performance, the ability of PHIs direct and indirect subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to limits imposed by: (i) state corporate and regulatory laws, which impose limitations on the funds that can be used to pay dividends and, in the case of regulatory laws, as applicable, may require the prior approval of the relevant utility regulatory commissions before dividends can be paid, (ii) the prior rights of holders of existing and future preferred stock, mortgage bonds and other long term debt issued by the subsidiaries, and any other restrictions imposed in connection with the incurrence of liabilities, and (iii) certain provisions of ACEs certificate of incorporation which provides that, if any preferred stock is outstanding, no dividends may be paid on the ACE common stock if, after payment, ACEs common stock capital plus surplus would be less than the involuntary liquidation value of the outstanding preferred stock. Pepco and DPL have no shares of preferred stock outstanding. Currently, the restriction in the ACE charter does not limit its ability to pay dividends. Pension Funding Pepco Holdings has a noncontributory retirement plan (the PHI Retirement Plan) that covers substantially all employees of Pepco, DPL and ACE and certain employees of other Pepco Holdings subsidiaries. As of the 2007 valuation, the PHI Retirement Plan satisfied the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) without requiring any additional funding. PHIs funding policy with regard to the PHI Retirement Plan is to maintain a funding level in excess of 100% of its accumulated benefit obligation (ABO). In 2007 and 2006, no contributions were made to the PHI Retirement Plan. In 2007, the ABO for the PHI Retirement Plan decreased from 2006, due to an increase in the discount rate used to value the ABO obligation, which more than offset the accrual of an additional year of service for participants. The PHI Retirement Plan assets achieved returns in 2007 above the 8.25% level assumed in the valuation. As a result of the combination of these factors, no contribution was made to the PHI Retirement Plan, because the funding level at year end 2007 was in excess of 100% of the ABO. In 2006, as a result of similar factors, PHI made no contribution to the PHI Retirement Plan. Assuming no changes to the current pension plan assumptions, PHI projects no funding will be required under ERISA in 2008; however, PHI may elect to make a discretionary tax deductible contribution, if required to maintain its assets in excess of ABO for the PHI Retirement Plan. Legislative changes, in the form of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, impact the funding requirements for pension plans beginning in 2008. The Pension Protection Act alters the manner in which liabilities and asset values are determined 77 for the purpose of calculating required pension contributions. Based on preliminary actuarial projections and assuming no changes to current pension plan assumptions, PHI believes it is unlikely that there will be a required contribution in 2008. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Summary information about Pepco Holdings consolidated contractual obligations and commercial commitments at December 31, 2007, is as follows: Contractual Maturity Obligation (a) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years After 5 Years (Millions of dollars) Variable rate demand bonds $ 151.7 $ 151.7 $ $ $ Commercial paper 137.1 137.1 Long term debt (b) 4,938.4 323.8 614.1 857.2 3,143.3 Long term project funding 29.3 8.4 4.1 3.3 13.5 Interest payments on debt 3,254.4 282.8 521.5 462.7 1,987.4 Capital leases 182.9 15.4 30.4 30.4 106.7 Liabilities and accrued interest related to effectively settled and uncertain tax positions 140.8 71.0 13.0 56.8 Operating leases 512.0 38.1 62.4 49.6 361.9 Non derivative fuel and purchase power contracts (c) 9,806.1 3,176.7 2,756.8 752.7 3,119.9 Total $ 19,152.7 $ 4,205.0 $ 3,989.3 $ 2,168.9 $ 8,789.5 (a) Estimates relating to the future funding of PHIs pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not included in this table. For additional information, see Item 8, Note (6) Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Cash Flows. (b) Includes transition bonds issued by ACE Funding. (c) Excludes contractual obligations entered into by ACE to purchase electricity to satisfy its BGS load. Third Party Guarantees, Indemnifications and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Pepco Holdings and certain of its subsidiaries have various financial and performance guarantees and indemnification obligations which are entered into in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties as discussed below. As of December 31, 2007, Pepco Holdings and its subsidiaries were parties to a variety of agreements pursuant to which they were guarantors for standby letters of credit, performance residual value, and other commitments and obligations. These commitments and obligations, in millions of dollars, were as follows: 78 Guarantor PHI DPL ACE Other Total Energy marketing obligations of Conectiv Energy (a) $ 180.9 $ $ $ $ 180.9 Energy procurement obligations of Pepco Energy Services (a) 141.7 141.7 Guaranteed lease residual values (b) 2.6 2.7 .4 5.7 Other (c) 2.3 1.4 3.7 Total $ 324.9 $ 2.6 $ 2.7 $ 1.8 $ 332.0 (a) Pepco Holdings has contractual commitments ensuring the performance and related payments of Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services to counterparties under routine energy sales and procurement obligations, including retail customer load obligations of Pepco Energy Services and requirements under BGS contracts entered into by Conectiv Energy with ACE. (b) Subsidiaries of Pepco Holdings have guaranteed residual values in excess of fair value of certain equipment and fleet vehicles held through lease agreements. As of December 31, 2007, obligations under the guarantees were approximately $5.7 million. Assets leased under agreements subject to residual value guarantees are typically for periods ranging from 2 years to 10 years. Historically, payments under the guarantees have not been made by the guarantor as, under normal conditions, the contract runs to full term at which time the residual value is minimal. As such, Pepco Holdings believes the likelihood of payment being required under the guarantee is remote. (c) Other guarantees consist of: Pepco Holdings has guaranteed a subsidiary building lease of $2.3 million. Pepco Holdings does not expect to fund the full amount of the exposure under the guarantee. PCI has guaranteed facility rental obligations related to contracts entered into by Starpower Communications, LLC, a joint venture in which PCI prior to December 2004 had a 50% interest. As of December 31, 2007, the guarantees cover the remaining $1.4 million in rental obligations. Pepco Holdings and certain of its subsidiaries have entered into various indemnification agreements related to purchase and sale agreements and other types of contractual agreements with vendors and other third parties. These indemnification agreements typically cover environmental, tax, litigation and other matters, as well as breaches of representations, warranties and covenants set forth in these agreements. Typically, claims may be made by third parties under these indemnification agreements over various periods of time depending on the nature of the claim. The maximum potential exposure under these indemnification agreements can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount depending on the nature of the claim and the particular transaction. The total maximum potential amount of future payments under these indemnification agreements is not estimable due to several factors, including uncertainty as to whether or when claims may be made under these indemnities. 79 Energy Contract Net Asset/Liability Activity The following table provides detail on changes in the net asset or liability position of the Competitive Energy businesses (consisting of the activities of the Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services segments) with respect to energy commodity contracts from one period to the next: Roll forward of Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) For the Year Ended December 31, 2007 (Dollars are pre tax and in millions) Proprietary Trading (a) Other Energy Commodity (b) Total Total Marked to Market (MTM) Energy Contract Net Liabilities at December 31, 2006 $ $(64.3) $(64.3) Total change in unrealized fair value 8.2 8.2 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts 73.9 73.9 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in Other Comprehensive Income 2.8 2.8 Ineffective portion of changes in fair value recorded in earnings (2.5) (2.5) Total MTM Energy Contract Net Assets at December 31, 2007 $ $ 18.1 $ 18.1 Detail of MTM Energy Contract Net Assets at December 31, 2007 (see above) Total Current Assets (other current assets) $ 44.2 Noncurrent Assets (other assets) 24.6 Total MTM Energy Contract Assets 68.8 Current Liabilities (other current liabilities) (23.0) Noncurrent Liabilities (other liabilities) (27.7) Total MTM Energy Contract Liabilities (50.7) Total MTM Energy Contract Net Assets $ 18.1 (a) PHI does not engage in proprietary trading activities. (b) Includes all SFAS No. 133 hedge activity and non proprietary trading activities marked to market through earnings. PHI uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of the commodity and derivative contracts that its Competitive Energy businesses hold and sell. The fair values in each category presented below reflect forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2007 and are subject to change as a result of changes in these factors: 80 Maturity and Source of Fair Value of Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) As of December 31, 2007 (Dollars are pre tax and in millions) Fair Value of Contracts at December 31, 2007 Maturities (a) Source of Fair Value 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Beyond Total Fair Value Proprietary Trading Actively Quoted (i.e., exchange traded) prices $ $ $ $ $ Prices provided by other external sources Modeled Total $ $ $ $ $ Other Energy Commodity, net (b) Actively Quoted (i.e., exchange traded) prices $(15.0) $ 10.0 $ 3.2 $ .2 $ (1.6) Prices provided by other external sources (c) 23.7 (8.4) 4.4 19.7 Modeled Total $ 8.7 $ 1.6 $ 7.6 $ .2 $18.1 (a) Indicated maturity is based on contract settlement or delivery date(s). (b) Includes all SFAS No. 133 hedge activity and non proprietary trading activities marked to market through Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or on the Statements of earnings, as required. (c) Prices provided by other external sources reflect information obtained from over the counter brokers, industry services, or multiple party on line platforms. Contractual Arrangements with Credit Rating Triggers or Margining Rights Under certain contractual arrangements entered into by PHIs subsidiaries in connection with Competitive Energy business and other transactions, the subsidiary may be required to provide cash collateral or letters of credit as security for its contractual obligations if the credit ratings of the subsidiary are downgraded. In the event of a downgrade, the amount required to be posted would depend on the amount of the underlying contractual obligation existing at the time of the downgrade. Based on contractual provisions in effect at December 31, 2007, PHI estimates that if a one level downgrade in the credit rating of PHI and each of its relevant subsidiaries were to occur, the additional aggregate cash collateral or letters of credit amount required would be $339.0 million. PHI believes that it and its utility subsidiaries maintain adequate short term funding sources in the event the additional collateral or letters of credit are required. See Sources of Capital Short Term Funding Sources. Many of the contractual arrangements entered into by PHIs subsidiaries in connection with Competitive Energy and Default Electricity Supply activities include margining rights pursuant to which the PHI subsidiary or a counterparty may request collateral if the market value of the contractual obligations reaches levels in excess of the credit thresholds established in the applicable arrangements. Pursuant to these margining rights, the affected PHI subsidiary may receive, or be required to post, collateral due to energy price movements. As of December 31, 81 2007, Pepco Holdings subsidiaries engaged in Competitive Energy activities and Default Electricity Supply activities provided net cash collateral in the amount of $91.2 million in connection with these activities. Environmental Remediation Obligations PHIs accrued liabilities as of December 31, 2007 include approximately $18.4 million, of which $5.7 million is expected to be incurred in 2008, for potential environmental cleanup and other costs related to sites at which an operating subsidiary is a potentially responsible party (PRP), is alleged to be a third party contributor, or has made a decision to clean up contamination on its own property. For information regarding projected expenditures for environmental control facilities, see Item 1 Business Environmental Matters. The most significant environmental remediation obligations as of December 31, 2007, were: $4.7 million, of which $1.2 million is expected to be incurred in 2008, payable by DPL in accordance with a 2001 consent agreement reached with the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, for remediation, site restoration, natural resource damage compensatory projects and other costs associated with environmental contamination that resulted from an oil release at the Indian River power plant, which was sold in June 2001. $4.9 million in environmental remediation costs, of which $1.3 million is expected to be incurred in 2008, payable by Conectiv Energy associated with the Deepwater generating facility. $3.8 million for environmental remediation costs related to former manufactured gas plant (MGP) operations at a Cambridge, Maryland site on DPL owned property, adjacent property and the adjacent Cambridge Creek, all of which is expected to be incurred in 2008. $1.7 million in connection with Pepcos liability for a remedy at the Metal Bank/Cottman Avenue site. $1.4 million, of which approximately $260,000 is expected to be incurred in 2008, payable by DPL in connection with the Wilmington Coal Gas South site located in Wilmington, Delaware, to remediate residual material from the historical operation of a manufactured gas plant. $735,000, of which approximately $65,000 is expected to be incurred in 2008, payable by Pepco for long term monitoring associated with a pipeline oil release that occurred in 2000. Sources of Capital Pepco Holdings sources to meet its long term funding needs, such as capital expenditures, dividends, and new investments, and its short term funding needs, such as working capital and the temporary funding of long term funding needs, include internally generated funds, securities issuances and bank financing under new or existing facilities. PHIs ability to generate funds from its operations and to access capital and credit markets is subject to risks and uncertainties. Volatile and deteriorating financial market conditions, diminished liquidity and 82 tightening credit may affect efficient access to certain of PHIs potential funding sources. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional discussion of important factors that may impact these sources of capital. Internally Generated Cash The primary source of Pepco Holdings internally generated funds is the cash flow generated by its regulated utility subsidiaries in the Power Delivery business. Additional sources of funds include cash flow generated from its non regulated subsidiaries and the sale of non core assets. Short Term Funding Sources Pepco Holdings and its regulated utility subsidiaries have traditionally used a number of sources to fulfill short term funding needs, such as commercial paper, short term notes and bank lines of credit. Proceeds from short term borrowings are used primarily to meet working capital needs but may also be used to fund temporarily long term capital requirements. Pepco Holdings maintains an ongoing commercial paper program of up to $875 million. Pepco, DPL, and ACE have ongoing commercial paper programs of up to $500 million, up to $275 million, and up to $250 million, respectively. The commercial paper can be issued with maturities of up to 270 days. PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE maintain a credit facility which supports the issuance of commercial paper and is available to provide for short term liquidity needs. The aggregate borrowing limit under the facility is $1.5 billion, all or any portion of which may be used to obtain loans or to issue letters of credit. PHIs credit limit under the facility is $875 million. The credit limit of each of Pepco, DPL and ACE is the lesser of $500 million and the maximum amount of debt the company is permitted to have outstanding by its regulatory authorities, except that the aggregate amount of credit used by Pepco, DPL and ACE at any given time collectively may not exceed $625 million. The interest rate payable by each company on utilized funds is based on the prevailing prime rate or Eurodollar rate, plus a margin that varies according to the credit rating of the borrower. The facility also includes a swingline loan sub facility, pursuant to which each company may make same day borrowings in an aggregate amount not to exceed $150 million. Any swingline loan must be repaid by the borrower within seven days of receipt thereof. All indebtedness incurred under the facility is unsecured. The facility commitment expiration date is May 5, 2012, with each company having the right to elect to have 100% of the principal balance of the loans outstanding on the expiration date continued as non revolving term loans for a period of one year from such expiration date. The facility is intended to serve primarily as a source of liquidity to support the commercial paper programs of the respective companies. The companies also are permitted to use the facility to borrow funds for general corporate purposes and issue letters of credit. In order for a borrower to use the facility, certain representations and warranties made by the borrower at the time the credit agreement was entered into also must be true at the time the facility is utilized, and the borrower must be in compliance with specified covenants, including the financial covenant described below. However, a material adverse change in the borrowers business, 83 property, and results of operations or financial condition subsequent to the entry into the credit agreement is not a condition to the availability of credit under the facility. Among the covenants to which each of the companies is subject are (i) the requirement that each borrowing company maintain a ratio of total indebtedness to total capitalization of 65% or less, computed in accordance with the terms of the credit agreement, which calculation excludes certain trust preferred securities and deferrable interest subordinated debt from the definition of total indebtedness (not to exceed 15% of total capitalization), (ii) a restriction on sales or other dispositions of assets, other than sales and dispositions permitted by the credit agreement, and (iii) a restriction on the incurrence of liens on the assets of a borrower or any of its significant subsidiaries other than liens permitted by the credit agreement. The credit agreement does not include any rating triggers. Long Term Funding Sources The sources of long term funding for PHI and its subsidiaries are the issuance of debt and equity securities and borrowing under long term credit agreements. Proceeds from long term financings are used primarily to fund long term capital requirements, such as capital expenditures and new investments, and to repay or refinance existing indebtedness. Regulatory Restrictions on Financing Activities The issuance of both debt and equity securities by the principal subsidiaries of PHI requires approval of either FERC or one or more state public utility commissions. Neither FERC approval nor state public utility commission approval is required as a condition to the issuance of securities by PHI. State Financing Authority Pepcos long term financing activities (including the issuance of securities and the incurrence of debt) are subject to authorization by the District of Columbia Public Service Commission (DCPSC) and MPSC. DPLs long term financing activities are subject to authorization by MPSC and the Delaware Public Service Commission (DPSC). ACEs long term and short term (consisting of debt instruments with a maturity of one year or less) financing activities are subject to authorization by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (NJBPU). Each utility, through periodic filings with the state public service commission(s) having jurisdiction over its financing activities, typically maintains standing authority sufficient to cover its projected financing needs over a multi year period. FERC Financing Authority Under the Federal Power Act (FPA), FERC has jurisdiction over the issuance of long term and short term securities of public utilities, but only if the issuance is not regulated by the state public utility commission in which the public utility is organized and operating. Under these provisions, FERC has jurisdiction over the issuance of short term debt by Pepco and DPL. Because Conectiv Energy and Pepco Energy Services also qualify as public utilities under the FPA and are not regulated by a state utility commission, FERC approval would be required for the issuance of securities by those companies. To the extent FERC approval is required for the issuance of securities by PHI and its subsidiaries, the companies, in accordance with regulations adopted by FERC, are relying on 84 authority granted in a financing order issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the repeal of Public Utility Holding Company Act 1935 (the Financing Order), which extends through June 30, 2008. Prior to June 30, 2008, PHIs utility subsidiaries will file for new financing authority for the issuance of securities for which FERC approval is required. Money Pool Under the Financing Order, Pepco Holdings is authorized to operate a system money pool. The money pool is a cash management mechanism used by Pepco Holdings to manage the short term investment and borrowing requirements of its subsidiaries that participate in the money pool. Pepco Holdings may invest in but not borrow from the money pool. Eligible subsidiaries with surplus cash may deposit those funds in the money pool. Deposits in the money pool are guaranteed by Pepco Holdings. Eligible subsidiaries with cash requirements may borrow from the money pool. Borrowings from the money pool are unsecured. Depositors in the money pool receive, and borrowers from the money pool pay, an interest rate based primarily on Pepco Holdings short term borrowing rate. Pepco Holdings deposits funds in the money pool to the extent that the pool has insufficient funds to meet the borrowing needs of its participants, which may require Pepco Holdings to borrow funds for deposit from external sources. After expiration of the Financing Order, PHI and its subsidiaries expect to engage in intra system cash management programs such as the money pool under a blanket authorization adopted by FERC. REGULATORY AND OTHER MATTERS Proceeds from Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims In 2000, Pepco sold substantially all of its electricity generating assets to Mirant. In 2003, Mirant commenced a voluntary bankruptcy proceeding in which it sought to reject certain obligations that it had undertaken in connection with the asset sale. As part of the asset sale, Pepco entered into the TPAs. Under a settlement to avoid the rejection by Mirant of its obligations under the TPAs in the bankruptcy proceeding, the terms of the TPAs were modified to increase the purchase price of the energy and capacity supplied by Mirant and Pepco received the TPA Claim. In December 2005, Pepco sold the TPA Claim, plus the right to receive accrued interest thereon, to an unaffiliated third party for $112.5 million. In addition, Pepco received proceeds of $.5 million in settlement of an asbestos claim against the Mirant bankruptcy estate. After customer sharing, Pepco recorded a pre tax gain of $70.5 million from the settlement of these claims. In connection with the asset sale, Pepco and Mirant also entered into a back to back arrangement, whereby Mirant agreed to purchase from Pepco the 230 megawatts of electricity and capacity that Pepco is obligated to purchase annually through 2021 from Panda under the Panda PPA at the purchase price Pepco is obligated to pay to Panda. As part of the further settlement of Pepcos claims against Mirant arising from the Mirant bankruptcy, Pepco agreed not to contest the rejection by Mirant of its obligations under the back to back arrangement in exchange for the payment by Mirant of damages corresponding to the estimated amount by which the purchase price that Pepco is obligated to pay Panda for the energy and capacity exceeded the market price. In 2007, Pepco received as damages $413.9 million in net proceeds from the sale of shares of Mirant common stock issued to it by Mirant. These funds are being accounted for as restricted cash based on managements intent to use such funds, and any interest 85 earned thereon, for the sole purpose of paying for the future above market capacity and energy purchase costs under the Panda PPA. Correspondingly, a regulatory liability has been established in the same amount to help offset the future above market capacity and energy purchase costs. This restricted cash has been classified as a non current asset to be consistent with the classification of the non current regulatory liability, and any changes in the balance of this restricted cash, including interest on the invested funds, are being accounted for as operating cash flows. As of December 31, 2007, the balance of the restricted cash account was $417.3 million. Based on a reexamination of the costs of the Panda PPA in light of current and projected wholesale market conditions conducted in the fourth quarter of 2007, Pepco determined that, principally due to increases in wholesale capacity prices, the present value above market cost of the Panda PPA over the term of the agreement is expected to be significantly less than the current amount of the restricted cash account balance. Accordingly, on February 22, 2008, Pepco filed applications with the DCPSC and the MPSC requesting orders directing Pepco to maintain $320 million in the restricted cash account and to use that cash, and any future earnings on the cash, for the sole purpose of paying the future above market cost of the Panda PPA (or, in the alternative, to fund a transfer or assignment of the remaining obligations under the Panda PPA to a third party). Pepco also requested that the order provide that any cash remaining in the account at the conclusion of the Panda PPA be refunded to customers and that any shortfall be recovered from customers. Pepco further proposed that the excess proceeds remaining from the settlement (approximately $94.6 million, representing the amount by which the regulatory liability of $414.6 million at December 31, 2007 exceeded $320 million) be shared approximately equally with its customers in accordance with the procedures previously approved by each commission for the sharing of the proceeds received by Pepco from the sale to Mirant of its generating assets. The regulatory liability of $414.6 million at December 31, 2007 differs from the restricted cash amount of $417.3 million on that date, in part, because the regulatory liability has been reduced for the portion of the December 2007 Panda charges in excess of market that had not yet been paid from the restricted cash account. The amount of the restricted cash balance that Pepco is permitted to retain will be recorded as earnings upon approval of the sharing arrangement by the respective commissions. At this time, Pepco cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. In settlement of other damages claims against Mirant, Pepco in 2007 also received a settlement payment in the amount of $70.0 million. Of this amount (i) $33.4 million was recorded as a reduction in operating expenses, (ii) $21.0 million was recorded as a reduction in a net pre petition receivable claim from Mirant, (iii) $15.0 million was recorded as a reduction in the capitalized costs of certain property, plant and equipment and (iv) $.6 million was recorded as a liability to reimburse a third party for certain legal costs associated with the settlement. Rate Proceedings In electric service distribution base rate cases filed by Pepco in the District of Columbia and Maryland, and by DPL in Maryland, and pending in 2007, Pepco and DPL proposed the adoption of a BSA for retail customers. Under the BSA, customer delivery rates are subject to adjustment (through a surcharge or credit mechanism), depending on whether actual distribution revenue per customer exceeds or falls short of the approved revenue per customer amount. The BSA will increase rates if actual distribution revenues fall below the level approved by the applicable commission and will decrease rates if actual distribution revenues are above the approved level. The result will be that, over time, the utility would collect its authorized 86 revenues for distribution deliveries. As a consequence, a BSA decouples revenue from unit sales consumption and ties the growth in revenues to the growth in the number of customers. Some advantages of the BSA are that it (i) eliminates revenue fluctuations due to weather and changes in customer usage patterns and, therefore, provides for more predictable utility distribution revenues that are better aligned with costs, (ii) provides for more reliable fixed cost recovery, (iii) tends to stabilize customers delivery bills, and (iv) removes any disincentives for the regulated utilities to promote energy efficiency programs for their customers, because it breaks the link between overall sales volumes and delivery revenues. The status of the BSA proposals in each of the jurisdictions is described below in discussion of the respective base rate proceedings. Delaware On September 4, 2007, DPL submitted its 2007 GCR filing to the DPSC. The GCR permits DPL to recover its gas procurement costs through customer rates. On September 18, 2007, the DPSC issued an initial order approving a 5.7% decrease in the level of the GCR, which became effective November 1, 2007, subject to refund and pending final DPSC approval after evidentiary hearings. District of Columbia In December 2006, Pepco submitted an application to the DCPSC to increase electric distribution base rates, including a proposed BSA. The application to the DCPSC requested an annual increase of approximately $46.2 million or an overall increase of 13.5%, reflecting a proposed return on equity (ROE) of 10.75%. In the alternative, the application requested an annual increase of $50.5 million or an overall increase of 14.8%, reflecting an ROE of 11.00%, if the BSA were not approved. Subsequently, Pepco reduced its annual revenue increase request to $43.4 million (including a proposed BSA) and $47.9 million (if the BSA were not approved). On January 30, 2008, the DCPSC approved a revenue requirement increase of approximately $28.3 million, based on an authorized return on rate base of 7.96%, including a 10% ROE. The rate increase is effective February 20, 2008. The DCPSC, while finding the BSA to be an appropriate ratemaking concept, cited potential statutory problems in the DCPSCs ability to implement the BSA. The DCPSC stated that it intends to issue an order to establish a Phase II proceeding to consider these implementation issues. Maryland On July 19, 2007, the MPSC issued orders in the electric service distribution rate cases filed by DPL and Pepco, each of which included approval of a BSA. The DPL order approved an annual increase in distribution rates of approximately $14.9 million (including a decrease in annual depreciation expense of approximately $.9 million). The Pepco order approved an annual increase in distribution rates of approximately $10.6 million (including a decrease in annual depreciation expense of approximately $30.7 million). In each case, the approved distribution rate reflects an ROE of 10.0%. The orders each provided that the rate increases are effective as of June 16, 2007, and will remain in effect for an initial period of nine months from the date of the order (or until April 19, 2008). These rates are subject to a Phase II proceeding in which the MPSC will consider the results of audits of each companys cost allocation manual, as filed with 87 the MPSC, to determine whether a further adjustment to the rates is required. Hearings for the Phase II proceeding are scheduled for mid March 2008. New Jersey On June 1, 2007, ACE filed with the NJBPU an application for permission to decrease the Non Utility Generation Charge (NGC) and increase components of its Societal Benefits Charge (SBC) to be collected from customers for the period October 1, 2007 through September 30, 2008. The proposed changes are designed to effect a true up of the actual and estimated costs and revenues collected through the current NGC and SBC rates through September 30, 2007 and, in the case of the SBC, forecasted costs and revenues for the period October 1, 2007 through September 30, 2008. As of December 31, 2007, the NGC, which is intended primarily to recover the above market component of payments made by ACE under non utility generation contracts and stranded costs associated with those commitments, had an over recovery balance of $224.3 million. The filing proposed that the estimated NGC balance as of September 30, 2007 in the amount of $216.2 million, including interest, be amortized and returned to ACE customers over a four year period, beginning October 1, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, the SBC, which is intended to allow ACE to recover certain costs involved with various NJBPU mandated social programs, had an under recovery of approximately $20.9 million, primarily due to increased costs associated with funding the New Jersey Clean Energy Program. In addition, ACE has requested an increase to the SBC to reflect the funding levels approved by the NJBPU of $20.4 million for the period October 1, 2007 through September 30, 2008, bringing to $40 million the total recovery requested for the period October 1, 2007 to September 30, 2008 (based upon actual data through August 2007). The net impact of the proposed adjustments to the NGC and the SBC, including associated changes in sales and use tax, is an overall rate decrease of approximately $129.9 million for the period October 1, 2007 through September 30, 2008 (based upon actual data through August 2007). The proposed adjustments and the corresponding changes in customer rates are subject to the approval of the NJBPU. If approved and implemented, ACE anticipates that the revised rates will remain in effect until September 30, 2008, subject to an annual true up and change each year thereafter. The proposed adjustments and the corresponding changes in customer rates remain under review by the NJBPU and have not yet been implemented. ACE Restructuring Deferral Proceeding Pursuant to orders issued by the NJBPU under the New Jersey Electric Discount and Energy Competition Act (EDECA), beginning August 1, 1999, ACE was obligated to provide BGS to retail electricity customers in its service territory who did not elect to purchase electricity from a competitive supplier. For the period August 1, 1999 through July 31, 2003, ACEs aggregate costs that it was allowed to recover from customers exceeded its aggregate revenues from supplying BGS. These under recovered costs were partially offset by a $59.3 million deferred energy cost liability existing as of July 31, 1999 (LEAC Liability) related to ACEs Levelized Energy Adjustment Clause and ACEs Demand Side Management Programs. ACE established a regulatory asset in an amount equal to the balance of under recovered costs. 88 In August 2002, ACE filed a petition with the NJBPU for the recovery of approximately $176.4 million in actual and projected deferred costs relating to the provision of BGS and other restructuring related costs incurred by ACE over the four year period August 1, 1999 through July 31, 2003, net of the $59.3 million offset for the LEAC Liability. The petition also requested that ACEs rates be reset as of August 1, 2003 so that there would be no under recovery of costs embedded in the rates on or after that date. The increase sought represented an overall 8.4% annual increase in electric rates. In July 2004, the NJBPU issued a final order in the restructuring deferral proceeding confirming a July 2003 summary order, which (i) permitted ACE to begin collecting a portion of the deferred costs and reset rates to recover on going costs incurred as a result of EDECA, (ii) approved the recovery of $125 million of the deferred balance over a ten year amortization period beginning August 1, 2003, (iii) transferred to ACEs then pending base rate case for further consideration approximately $25.4 million of the deferred balance (the base rate case ended in a settlement approved by the NJBPU in May 2005, the result of which is that any net rate impact from the deferral account recoveries and credits in future years will depend in part on whether rates associated with other deferred accounts considered in the case continue to generate over collections relative to costs), and (iv) estimated the overall deferral balance as of July 31, 2003 at $195.0 million, of which $44.6 million was disallowed recovery by ACE. Although ACE believes the record does not justify the level of disallowance imposed by the NJBPU in the final order, the $44.6 million of disallowed incurred costs were reserved during the years 1999 through 2003 (primarily 2003) through charges to earnings, primarily in the operating expense line item deferred electric service costs, with a corresponding reduction in the regulatory asset balance sheet account. In 2005, an additional $1.2 million in interest on the disallowed amount was identified and reserved by ACE. In August 2004, ACE filed a notice of appeal with respect to the July 2004 final order with the Appellate Division of the Superior Court of New Jersey (the Appellate Division), which hears appeals of the decisions of New Jersey administrative agencies, including the NJBPU. On August 9, 2007, the Appellate Division, citing deference to the factual and policy findings of the NJBPU, affirmed the NJBPUs decision in its entirety, rejecting challenges from ACE and the Division of Rate Counsel. On September 10, 2007, ACE filed an application for certification to the New Jersey Supreme Court. On January 15, 2008, the New Jersey Supreme Court denied ACEs application for certification. Because the full amount at issue in this proceeding was previously reserved by ACE, there will be no further financial statement impact to ACE. Divestiture Cases District of Columbia Final briefs on Pepcos District of Columbia divestiture proceeds sharing application were filed with the DCPSC in July 2002 following an evidentiary hearing in June 2002. That application was filed to implement a provision of Pepcos DCPSC approved divestiture settlement that provided for a sharing of any net proceeds from the sale of Pepcos generation related assets. One of the principal issues in the case is whether Pepco should be required to share with customers the excess deferred income taxes (EDIT) and accumulated deferred investment tax credits (ADITC) associated with the sold assets and, if so, whether such sharing would violate the normalization provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) and its implementing regulations. As of December 31, 2007, the District of Columbia allocated portions 89 of EDIT and ADITC associated with the divested generating assets were approximately $6.5 million and $5.8 million, respectively. Pepco believes that a sharing of EDIT and ADITC would violate the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) normalization rules. Under these rules, Pepco could not transfer the EDIT and the ADITC benefit to customers more quickly than on a straight line basis over the book life of the related assets. Since the assets are no longer owned by Pepco, there is no book life over which the EDIT and ADITC can be returned. If Pepco were required to share EDIT and ADITC and, as a result, the normalization rules were violated, Pepco would be unable to use accelerated depreciation on District of Columbia allocated or assigned property. In addition to sharing with customers the generation related EDIT and ADITC balances, Pepco would have to pay to the IRS an amount equal to Pepcos District of Columbia jurisdictional generation related ADITC balance ($5.8 million as of December 31, 2007), as well as its District of Columbia jurisdictional transmission and distribution related ADITC balance ($4.0 million as of December 31, 2007) in each case as those balances exist as of the later of the date a DCPSC order is issued and all rights to appeal have been exhausted or lapsed, or the date the DCPSC order becomes operative. In March 2003, the IRS issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (NOPR), which would allow for the sharing of EDIT and ADITC related to divested assets with utility customers on a prospective basis and at the election of the taxpayer on a retroactive basis. In December 2005 a revised NOPR was issued which, among other things, withdrew the March 2003 NOPR and eliminated the taxpayers ability to elect to apply the regulation retroactively. Comments on the revised NOPR were filed in March 2006, and a public hearing was held in April 2006. Pepco filed a letter with the DCPSC in January 2006, in which it has reiterated that the DCPSC should continue to defer any decision on the ADITC and EDIT issues until the IRS issues final regulations or states that its regulations project related to this issue will be terminated without the issuance of any regulations. Other issues in the divestiture proceeding deal with the treatment of internal costs and cost allocations as deductions from the gross proceeds of the divestiture. Pepco believes that its calculation of the District of Columbia customers share of divestiture proceeds is correct. However, depending on the ultimate outcome of this proceeding, Pepco could be required to make additional gain sharing payments to District of Columbia customers, including the payments described above related to EDIT and ADITC. Such additional payments (which, other than the EDIT and ADITC related payments, cannot be estimated) would be charged to expense in the quarter and year in which a final decision is rendered and could have a material adverse effect on Pepcos and PHIs results of operations for those periods. However, neither PHI nor Pepco believes that additional gain sharing payments, if any, or the ADITC related payments to the IRS, if required, would have a material adverse impact on its financial position or cash flows. Maryland Pepco filed its divestiture proceeds plan application with the MPSC in April 2001. The principal issue in the Maryland case is the same EDIT and ADITC sharing issue that has been raised in the District of Columbia case. See the discussion above under Divestiture Cases District of Columbia. As of December 31, 2007, the Maryland allocated portions of EDIT and ADITC associated with the divested generating assets were approximately $9.1 million and $10.4 million, respectively. Other issues deal with the treatment of certain costs as deductions from the gross proceeds of the divestiture. In November 2003, the Hearing Examiner in the 90 Maryland proceeding issued a proposed order with respect to the application that concluded that Pepcos Maryland divestiture settlement agreement provided for a sharing between Pepco and customers of the EDIT and ADITC associated with the sold assets. Pepco believes that such a sharing would violate the normalization rules (discussed above) and would result in Pepcos inability to use accelerated depreciation on Maryland allocated or assigned property. If the proposed order is affirmed, Pepco would have to share with its Maryland customers, on an approximately 50/50 basis, the Maryland allocated portion of the generation related EDIT ($9.1 million as of December 31, 2007), and the Maryland allocated portion of generation related ADITC. Furthermore, Pepco would have to pay to the IRS an amount equal to Pepcos Maryland jurisdictional generation related ADITC balance ($10.4 million as of December 31, 2007), as well as its Maryland retail jurisdictional ADITC transmission and distribution related balance ($7.2 million as of December 31, 2007), in each case as those balances exist as of the later of the date a MPSC order is issued and all rights to appeal have been exhausted or lapsed, or the date the MPSC order becomes operative. The Hearing Examiner decided all other issues in favor of Pepco, except for the determination that only one half of the severance payments that Pepco included in its calculation of corporate reorganization costs should be deducted from the sales proceeds before sharing of the net gain between Pepco and customers. Pepco filed a letter with the MPSC in January 2006, in which it has reiterated that the MPSC should continue to defer any decision on the ADITC and EDIT issues until the IRS issues final regulations or states that its regulations project related to this issue will be terminated without the issuance of any regulations. In December 2003, Pepco appealed the Hearing Examiners decision to the MPSC as it relates to the treatment of EDIT and ADITC and corporate reorganization costs. The MPSC has not issued any ruling on the appeal and Pepco does not believe that it will do so until action is taken by the IRS as described above. However, depending on the ultimate outcome of this proceeding, Pepco could be required to share with its customers approximately 50 percent of the EDIT and ADITC balances described above in addition to the additional gain sharing payments relating to the disallowed severance payments. Such additional payments would be charged to expense in the quarter and year in which a final decision is rendered and could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for those periods. However, neither PHI nor Pepco believes that additional gain sharing payments, if any, or the ADITC related payments to the IRS, if required, would have a material adverse impact on its financial position or cash flows. New Jersey In connection with the divestiture by ACE of its nuclear generating assets, the NJBPU in July 2000 preliminarily determined that the amount of stranded costs associated with the divested assets that ACE could recover from ratepayers should be reduced by approximately $94.8 million, consisting of $54.1 million of accumulated deferred federal income taxes (ADFIT) associated with accelerated depreciation on the divested nuclear assets, and $40.7 million of current tax loss from selling the assets at a price below the tax basis. The $54.1 million in deferred taxes associated with the divested assets accelerated depreciation, however, is subject to the normalization rules. Due to uncertainty under federal tax law regarding whether the sharing of federal income tax benefits associated with the divested assets, including ADFIT related to accelerated depreciation, with ACEs customers would violate the normalization rules, ACE submitted a request to the IRS for a Private Letter Ruling 91 (PLR) to clarify the applicable law. The NJBPU delayed its final determination of the amount of recoverable stranded costs until after the receipt of the PLR. On May 25, 2006, the IRS issued the PLR in which it stated that returning to ratepayers any of the unamortized ADFIT attributable to accelerated depreciation on the divested assets after the sale of the assets by means of a reduction of the amount of recoverable stranded costs would violate the normalization rules. On June 9, 2006, ACE submitted a letter to the NJBPU, requesting that the NJBPU conduct proceedings to finalize the determination of the stranded costs associated with the sale of ACEs nuclear assets in accordance with the PLR. In the absence of an NJBPU action regarding ACEs request, on June 22, 2007, ACE filed a motion requesting that the NJBPU issue an order finalizing the determination of such stranded costs in accordance with the PLR. On October 24, 2007, the NJBPU approved a stipulation resolving the ADFIT issue and issued a clarifying order, which concludes that the $94.8 million in stranded cost reduction, including the $54.1 million in ADFIT, does not violate the IRS normalization rules. In explaining this result, the NJBPU stated that (i) its earlier orders determining ACEs recoverable stranded costs net of tax did not cause ADFIT associated with certain divested nuclear assets to reduce stranded costs otherwise recoverable from ACEs ratepayers, and (ii) because the Market Transition Charge Tax component of the stranded cost recovery was intended by the NJBPU to gross up net of tax stranded costs, thereby ensuring and establishing that the ADFIT balance was not flowed through to ratepayers, the normalization rules were not violated. Default Electricity Supply Proceedings Virginia In June 2007, the Virginia State Corporation Commission (VSCC) denied DPLs request for an increase in its rates for Default Service for the period July 1, 2007 to May 31, 2008. DPL appealed in both state and federal courts. Those appeals have been dismissed in light of the closing of the sale of DPLs Virginia electric operations as described below under the heading DPL Sale of Virginia Operations. ACE Sale of B.L. England Generating Facility On February 8, 2007, ACE completed the sale of the B.L. England generating facility to RC Cape May Holdings, LLC (RC Cape May), an affiliate of Rockland Capital Energy Investments, LLC, for which it received proceeds of approximately $9 million. At the time of the sale, RC Cape May and ACE agreed to submit to arbitration the issue of whether RC Cape May, under the terms of the purchase agreement, must pay to ACE an additional $3.1 million as part of the purchase price. On February 26, 2008, the arbitrators issued a decision awarding $3.1 million to ACE, plus interest, attorneys fees and costs, for a total award of approximately $4.2 million. On July 18, 2007, ACE received a claim for indemnification from RC Cape May under the purchase agreement. RC Cape May contends that one of the assets it purchased, a contract for terminal services (TSA) between ACE and Citgo Asphalt Refining Co. (Citgo), has been declared by Citgo to have been terminated due to a failure by ACE to renew the contract in a timely manner. RC Cape May has commenced an arbitration proceeding against Citgo seeking a determination that the TSA remains in effect and has notified ACE of the proceeding. In 92 addition, RC Cape May has asserted a claim for indemnification from ACE in the amount of $25 million if the TSA is held not to be enforceable against Citgo. While ACE believes that it has defenses to the indemnification under the terms of the purchase agreement, should the arbitrator rule that the TSA has terminated, the outcome of this matter is uncertain. ACE notified RC Cape May of its intent to participate in the pending arbitration. The sale of B.L. England will not affect the stranded costs associated with the plant that already have been securitized. ACE anticipates that approximately $9 million to $10 million of additional regulatory assets related to B.L. England may, subject to NJBPU approval, be eligible for recovery as stranded costs. Approximately $47 million in emission allowance credits associated with B. L. England were monetized for the benefit of ACEs ratepayers pursuant to the NJBPU order approving the sale. Net proceeds from the sale of the plant and monetization of the emission allowance credits, estimated to be $32.2 million as of December 31, 2007, will be credited to ACEs ratepayers in accordance with the requirements of EDECA and NJBPU orders. The appropriate mechanism for crediting the net proceeds from the sale of the plant and the monetized emission allowance credits to ratepayers is being determined in a proceeding that is currently pending before the NJBPU. DPL Sale of Virginia Operations On January 2, 2008, DPL completed (i) the sale of its retail electric distribution business on the Eastern Shore of Virginia to A&N Electric Cooperative (A&N) for a purchase price of approximately $45.2 million, after closing adjustments, and (ii) the sale of its wholesale electric transmission business located on the Eastern Shore of Virginia to Old Dominion Electric Cooperative (ODEC) for a purchase price of approximately $5.4 million, after closing adjustments. Each of A&N and ODEC assumed certain post closing liabilities and unknown pre closing liabilities related to the respective assets they are purchasing (including, in the A&N transaction, most environmental liabilities), except that DPL remained liable for unknown pre closing liabilities if they become known within six months after the January 2, 2008 closing date. These sales are expected to result in an immaterial financial gain to DPL that will be recorded in the first quarter of 2008. Pepco Energy Services Deactivation of Power Plants Pepco Energy Services owns and operates two oil fired power plants. The power plants are located in Washington, D.C. and have a generating capacity rating of approximately 790 MW. Pepco Energy Services sells the output of these plants into the wholesale market administered by PJM. In February 2007, Pepco Energy Services provided notice to PJM of its intention to deactivate these plants. In May 2007, Pepco Energy Services deactivated one combustion turbine at its Buzzard Point facility with a generating capacity of approximately 16 MW. Pepco Energy Services currently plans to deactivate the balance of both plants by May 2012. PJM has informed Pepco Energy Services that these facilities are not expected to be needed for reliability after that time, but that its evaluation is dependent on the completion of transmission upgrades. Pepco Energy Services timing for deactivation of these units, in whole or in part, may be accelerated or delayed based on the operating condition of the units, economic conditions, and reliability considerations. Prior to deactivation of the plants, Pepco Energy Services may incur deficiency charges imposed by PJM at a rate up to two times the capacity payment price that the plants receive. Deactivation is not expected to have a material impact on PHIs financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 93 General Litigation During 1993, Pepco was served with Amended Complaints filed in the state Circuit Courts of Prince Georges County, Baltimore City and Baltimore County, Maryland in separate ongoing, consolidated proceedings known as In re: Personal Injury Asbestos Case. Pepco and other corporate entities were brought into these cases on a theory of premises liability. Under this theory, the plaintiffs argued that Pepco was negligent in not providing a safe work environment for employees or its contractors, who allegedly were exposed to asbestos while working on Pepcos property. Initially, a total of approximately 448 individual plaintiffs added Pepco to their complaints. While the pleadings are not entirely clear, it appears that each plaintiff sought $2 million in compensatory damages and $4 million in punitive damages from each defendant. Since the initial filings in 1993, additional individual suits have been filed against Pepco, and significant numbers of cases have been dismissed. As a result of two motions to dismiss, numerous hearings and meetings and one motion for summary judgment, Pepco has had approximately 400 of these cases successfully dismissed with prejudice, either voluntarily by the plaintiff or by the court. As of December 31, 2007, there are approximately 180 cases still pending against Pepco in the State Courts of Maryland, of which approximately 90 cases were filed after December 19, 2000, and were tendered to Mirant for defense and indemnification pursuant to the terms of the Asset Purchase and Sale Agreement between Pepco and Mirant under which Pepco sold its generation assets to Mirant in 2000. While the aggregate amount of monetary damages sought in the remaining suits (excluding those tendered to Mirant) is approximately $360 million, PHI and Pepco believe the amounts claimed by current plaintiffs are greatly exaggerated. The amount of total liability, if any, and any related insurance recovery cannot be determined at this time; however, based on information and relevant circumstances known at this time, neither PHI nor Pepco believes these suits will have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, if an unfavorable decision were rendered against Pepco, it could have a material adverse effect on Pepcos and PHIs financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Cash Balance Plan Litigation In 1999, Conectiv established a cash balance retirement plan to replace defined benefit retirement plans then maintained by ACE and DPL. Following the acquisition by Pepco of Conectiv, this plan became the Conectiv Cash Balance Sub Plan within the PHI Retirement Plan. In September 2005, three management employees of PHI Service Company filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware (the Delaware District Court) against the PHI Retirement Plan, PHI and Conectiv (the PHI Parties), alleging violations of ERISA, on behalf of a class of management employees who did not have enough age and service when the Cash Balance Sub Plan was implemented in 1999 to assure that their accrued benefits would be calculated pursuant to the terms of the predecessor plans sponsored by ACE and DPL. A fourth plaintiff was added to the case to represent DPL legacy employees who were not eligible for grandfathered benefits. The plaintiffs challenged the design of the Cash Balance Sub Plan and sought a declaratory judgment that the Cash Balance Sub Plan was invalid and that the accrued benefits of 94 each member of the class should be calculated pursuant to the terms of the predecessor plans. Specifically, the complaint alleged that the use of a variable rate to compute the plaintiffs accrued benefit under the Cash Balance Sub Plan resulted in reductions in the accrued benefits that violated ERISA. The complaint also alleged that the benefit accrual rates and the minimal accrual requirements of the Cash Balance Sub Plan violated ERISA as did the notice that was given to plan participants upon implementation of the Cash Balance Sub Plan. On September 19, 2007, the Delaware District Court issued an order granting summary judgment in favor of the PHI Parties. On October 12, 2007, the plaintiffs filed an appeal of the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. If the plaintiffs were to prevail in this litigation, the ABO and projected benefit obligation (PBO) calculated in accordance with SFAS No. 87 each would increase by approximately $12 million, assuming no change in benefits for persons who have already retired or whose employment has been terminated and using actuarial valuation data as of the time the suit was filed. The ABO represents the present value that participants have earned as of the date of calculation. This means that only service already worked and compensation already earned and paid is considered. The PBO is similar to the ABO, except that the PBO includes recognition of the effect that estimated future pay increases would have on the pension plan obligation. Environmental Litigation PHI, through its subsidiaries, is subject to regulation by various federal, regional, state, and local authorities with respect to the environmental effects of its operations, including air and water quality control, solid and hazardous waste disposal, and limitations on land use. In addition, federal and state statutes authorize governmental agencies to compel responsible parties to clean up certain abandoned or unremediated hazardous waste sites. PHIs subsidiaries may incur costs to clean up currently or formerly owned facilities or sites found to be contaminated, as well as other facilities or sites that may have been contaminated due to past disposal practices. Although penalties assessed for violations of environmental laws and regulations are not recoverable from customers of the operating utilities, environmental clean up costs incurred by Pepco, DPL and ACE would be included by each company in its respective cost of service for ratemaking purposes. Cambridge, Maryland Site. In July 2004, DPL entered into an administrative consent order (ACO) with the Maryland Department of the Environment (MDE) to perform a Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study (RI/FS) to further identify the extent of soil, sediment and ground and surface water contamination related to former MGP operations at a Cambridge, Maryland site on DPL owned property and to investigate the extent of MGP contamination on adjacent property. The MDE has approved the RI and DPL submitted a final FS to MDE on February 15, 2007. No further MDE action is required with respect to the final FS. The costs of cleanup (as determined by the RI/FS and subsequent negotiations with MDE) are anticipated to be approximately $3.8 million. The remedial action to be taken by DPL will include dredging activities within Cambridge Creek, which are expected to commence in March 2008, and soil excavation on DPLs and adjacent property as early as August 2008. The final cleanup costs will include protective measures to control contaminant migration during the dredging activities and improvements to the existing shoreline. 95 Delilah Road Landfill Site. In November 1991, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) identified ACE as a PRP at the Delilah Road Landfill site in Egg Harbor Township, New Jersey. In 1993, ACE, along with other PRPs, signed an ACO with NJDEP to remediate the site. The soil cap remedy for the site has been implemented and in August 2006, NJDEP issued a No Further Action Letter (NFA) and Covenant Not to Sue for the site. Among other things, the NFA requires the PRPs to monitor the effectiveness of institutional (deed restriction) and engineering (cap) controls at the site every two years. In September 2007, NJDEP approved the PRP groups petition to conduct semi annual, rather than quarterly, ground water monitoring for two years and deferred until the end of the two year period a decision on the PRP groups request for annual groundwater monitoring thereafter. In August 2007, the PRP group agreed to reimburse the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys (EPAs) costs in the amount of $81,400 in full satisfaction of EPAs claims for all past and future response costs relating to the site (of which ACEs share is one third) and in October 2007, EPA and the PRP group entered into a tolling agreement to permit the parties sufficient time to execute a final settlement agreement. This settlement agreement will allow EPA to reopen the settlement in the event of new information or unknown conditions at the site. Based on information currently available, ACE anticipates that its share of additional cost associated with this site for post remedy operation and maintenance will be approximately $555,000 to $600,000. ACE believes that its liability for post remedy operation and maintenance costs will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Frontier Chemical Site. On June 29, 2007, ACE received a letter from the New York Department of Environmental Conservation (NYDEC) identifying ACE as a PRP at the Frontier Chemical Waste Processing Company site in Niagara Falls, N.Y. based on hazardous waste manifests indicating that ACE sent in excess of 7,500 gallons of manifested hazardous waste to the site. ACE has entered into an agreement with the other parties identified as PRPs to form the PRP group and has informed NYDEC that it has entered into good faith negotiations with the PRP group to address ACEs responsibility at the site. ACE believes that its responsibility at the site will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Carolina Transformer Site. In August 2006, EPA notified each of DPL and Pepco that they have been identified as entities that sent PCB laden oil to be disposed at the Carolina Transformer site in Fayetteville, North Carolina. The EPA notification stated that, on this basis, DPL and Pepco may be PRPs. In December 2007, DPL and Pepco agreed to enter into a settlement agreement with EPA and the PRP group at the Carolina Transformer site. Under the terms of the settlement, (i) Pepco and DPL each will pay $162,000 to EPA to resolve any liability that it might have at the site, (ii) EPA covenants not to sue or bring administrative action against DPL and Pepco for response costs at the site, (iii) other PRP group members release all rights for cost recovery or contribution claims they may have against DPL and Pepco, and (iv) DPL and Pepco release all rights for cost recovery or contribution claims that they may have against other parties settling with EPA. The consent decree is expected to be filed with the U.S. District Court in North Carolina in the second quarter of 2008. Deepwater Generating Station. On December 27, 2005, NJDEP issued a Title V Operating Permit for Conectiv Energys Deepwater Generating Station. The permit includes new limits on unit heat input. In order to comply with these new operational limits, Conectiv Energy restricted the output of the Deepwater Generating Stations Unit 1 and Unit 6. In 2006 and the first half of 2007, these restrictions resulted in operating losses of approximately $10,000 96 per operating day on Unit 6, primarily because of lost revenues due to reduced output, and to a lesser degree because of lost revenues related to capacity requirements of PJM. Since June 1, 2007, Deepwater Unit 6 can operate within the heat input limits set forth in the Title V Operating Permit without restricting output, because of technical improvements that partially corrected the inherent bias in the continuous emissions monitoring system that had caused recorded heat input to be higher than actual heat input. In order to comply with the heat input limit at Deepwater Unit 1, Conectiv Energy continues to restrict Unit 1 output, resulting in operating losses of approximately $500,000 in the second half of 2007 and projected operating losses in 2008 of approximately $500,000, due to penalties and lost revenues related to PJM capacity requirements. Beyond 2008, while penalties due to PJM capacity requirements are not expected, further operating losses due to lost revenues related to PJM capacity requirements may continue to be incurred. The operating losses due to reduced output on Unit 1 have been, and are expected to continue to be, insignificant. Conectiv Energy is challenging these heat input restrictions and other provisions of the Title V Operating Permit for Deepwater Generating Station in the New Jersey Office of Administrative Law (OAL). On October 2, 2007, the OAL issued a decision granting summary decision in favor of Conectiv Energy, finding that hourly heat input shall not be used as a condition or limit for Conectiv Energys electric generating operations. On October 26, 2007, the NJDEP Commissioner denied NJDEPs request for interlocutory review of the OAL order and determined that the Commissioner would review the October 2, 2007 order upon completion of the proceeding on Conectiv Energys other challenges to the Deepwater Title V permit. A hearing on the remaining challenged Title V permit provisions is scheduled for mid April 2008. On April 3, 2007, NJDEP issued an Administrative Order and Notice of Civil Administrative Penalty Assessment (the First Order) alleging that at Conectiv Energys Deepwater Generating Station, the maximum gross heat input to Unit 1 exceeded the maximum allowable heat input in calendar year 2005 and the maximum gross heat input to Unit 6 exceeded the maximum allowable heat input in calendar years 2005 and 2006. The order required the cessation of operation of Units 1 and 6 above the alleged permitted heat input levels, assessed a penalty of approximately $1.1 million and requested that Conectiv Energy provide additional information about heat input to Units 1 and 6. Conectiv Energy provided NJDEP Units 1 and 6 calendar year 2004 heat input data on May 9, 2007, and calendar years 1995 to 2003 heat input data on July 10, 2007. On May 23, 2007, NJDEP issued a second Administrative Order and Notice of Civil Administrative Penalty Assessment (the Second Order) alleging that the maximum gross heat input to Units 1 and 6 exceeded the maximum allowable heat input in calendar year 2004. The Second Order required the cessation of operation of Units 1 and 6 above the alleged permitted heat input levels and assessed a penalty of $811,600. Conectiv Energy has requested a contested case hearing challenging the issuance of the First Order and the Second Order and moved for a stay of the orders pending resolution of the Title V Operating Permit contested case described above. On November 29, 2007, the OAL issued orders placing the First Order and the Second Order on the inactive list for six months. Until the OAL decision discussed above is final, it will not have an impact on these currently inactive enforcement cases. IRS Examination of Like Kind Exchange Transaction In 2001, Conectiv and certain of its subsidiaries (the Conectiv Group) were engaged in the implementation of a strategy to divest non strategic electric generating facilities and replace these facilities with mid merit electric generating capacity. As part of this strategy, the Conectiv Group exchanged its interests in two older coal fired plants for the more efficient gas fired Hay 97 Road II generating facility, which was owned by an unaffiliated third party. For tax purposes, Conectiv treated the transaction as a like kind exchange under IRC Section 1031. As a result, approximately $88 million of taxable gain was deferred for federal income tax purposes. The transaction was examined by the IRS as part of the normal Conectiv tax audit. In May 2006, the IRS issued a revenue agents report (RAR) for the audit of Conectivs 2000, 2001 and 2002 income tax returns, in which the IRS disallowed the qualification of the exchange under IRC Section 1031. In July 2006, Conectiv filed a protest of this disallowance to the IRS Office of Appeals. PHI believes that its tax position related to this transaction is proper based on applicable statutes, regulations and case law and is contesting the disallowance. However, there is no absolute assurance that Conectivs position will prevail. If the IRS prevails, Conectiv would be subject to additional income taxes, interest and possible penalties. However, a portion of the denied benefit would be offset by additional tax depreciation. PHI has accrued approximately $4.9 million related to this matter. As of December 31, 2007, if the IRS were to fully prevail, the potential cash impact on PHI would be current income tax and interest payments of approximately $31.2 million and the earnings impact would be approximately $9.8 million in after tax interest. Federal Tax Treatment of Cross Border Leases PCI maintains a portfolio of cross border energy sale leaseback transactions, which, as of December 31, 2007, had a book value of approximately $1.4 billion, and from which PHI currently derives approximately $60 million per year in tax benefits in the form of interest and depreciation deductions. In 2005, the Treasury Department and IRS issued Notice 2005 13 informing taxpayers that the IRS intends to challenge on various grounds the purported tax benefits claimed by taxpayers entering into certain sale leaseback transactions with tax indifferent parties (i.e., municipalities, tax exempt and governmental entities), including those entered into on or prior to March 12, 2004 (the Notice). All of PCIs cross border energy leases are with tax indifferent parties and were entered into prior to 2004. Also in 2005, the IRS published a Coordinated Issue Paper concerning the resolution of audit issues related to such transactions. PCIs cross border energy leases are similar to those sale leaseback transactions described in the Notice and the Coordinated Issue Paper. PCIs leases have been under examination by the IRS as part of the normal PHI tax audit. In 2006, the IRS issued its final RAR for its audit of PHIs 2001 and 2002 income tax returns. In the RAR, the IRS disallowed the tax benefits claimed by PHI with respect to these leases for those years. The tax benefits claimed by PHI with respect to these leases from 2001 through December 31, 2007 were approximately $347 million. PHI has filed a protest against the IRS adjustments and the unresolved audit has been forwarded to the U.S. Office of Appeals. The ultimate outcome of this issue is uncertain; however, if the IRS prevails, PHI would be subject to additional taxes, along with interest and possibly penalties on the additional taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on PHIs financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. PHI believes that its tax position related to these transactions was appropriate based on 98 applicable statutes, regulations and case law, and intends to contest the adjustments proposed by the IRS; however, there is no assurance that PHIs position will prevail. In 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) on Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) 13 2, which amends SFAS No. 13 effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. This amendment requires a lease to be repriced and the book value adjusted when there is a change or probable change in the timing of tax benefits of the lease, regardless of whether the change results in a deferral or permanent loss of tax benefits. Accordingly, a material change in the timing of cash flows under PHIs cross border leases as the result of a settlement with the IRS would require an adjustment to the book value of the leases and a charge to earnings equal to the repricing impact of the disallowed deductions which could result in a material adverse effect on PHIs financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. PHI believes its tax position was appropriate and at this time does not believe there is a probable change in the timing of its tax benefits that would require repricing the leases and a charge to earnings. On December 14, 2007 the U.S. Senate passed its version of the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act of 2007 (H.R. 2419), which contains a provision that would apply passive loss limitation rules to leases with foreign tax indifferent parties effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2006, even if the leases were entered into on or prior to March 12, 2004. The U.S. House of Representatives version of this proposed legislation which it passed on July 27, 2007 does not contain any provision that would modify the current treatment of leases with tax indifferent parties. Enactment into law of a bill that is similar to that passed by the U.S. Senate in its current form could result in a material delay of the income tax benefits that PHI would receive in connection with its cross border energy leases. Furthermore, if legislation of this type were to be enacted, under FSP FAS 13 2, PHI would be required to adjust the book value of the leases and record a charge to earnings equal to the repricing impact of the deferred deductions which could result in a material adverse effect on PHIs financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate are expected to hold a conference in the near future to reconcile the differences in the two bills to determine the final legislation. IRS Mixed Service Cost Issue During 2001, Pepco, DPL, and ACE changed their methods of accounting with respect to capitalizable construction costs for income tax purposes. The change allowed the companies to accelerate the deduction of certain expenses that were previously capitalized and depreciated. Through December 31, 2005, these accelerated deductions generated incremental tax cash flow benefits of approximately $205 million (consisting of $94 million for Pepco, $62 million for DPL, and $49 million for ACE) for the companies, primarily attributable to their 2001 tax returns. In 2005, the Treasury Department released proposed regulations that, if adopted in their current form, would require Pepco, DPL, and ACE to change their method of accounting with respect to capitalizable construction costs for income tax purposes for tax periods beginning in 2005. Based on those proposed regulations, PHI in its 2005 federal tax return adopted an alternative method of accounting for capitalizable construction costs that management believes will be acceptable to the IRS. 99 At the same time as the new proposed regulations were released, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 2005 53, which is intended to limit the ability of certain taxpayers to utilize the method of accounting for income tax purposes for 2004 and prior years with respect to capitalizable construction costs. In line with this Revenue Ruling, the IRS RAR for the 2001 and 2002 tax returns disallowed substantially all of the incremental tax benefits that Pepco, DPL and ACE had claimed on those returns by requiring the companies to capitalize and depreciate certain expenses rather than treat such expenses as current deductions. PHIs protest of the IRS adjustments is among the unresolved audit matters relating to the 2001 and 2002 audits pending before the Appeals Office. In February 2006, PHI paid approximately $121 million of taxes to cover the amount of additional taxes that management estimated to be payable for the years 2001 through 2004 based on the method of tax accounting that PHI, pursuant to the proposed regulations, has adopted on its 2005 tax return. However, if the IRS is successful in requiring Pepco, DPL and ACE to capitalize and depreciate construction costs that result in a tax and interest assessment greater than managements estimate of $121 million, PHI will be required to pay additional taxes and interest only to the extent these adjustments exceed the $121 million payment made in February 2006. It is reasonably possible that PHIs unrecognized tax benefits related to this issue will significantly decrease in the next 12 months as a result of a settlement with the IRS. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES General Pepco Holdings has identified the following accounting policies, including certain estimates, that as a result of the judgments, uncertainties, uniqueness and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved, could result in material changes to its financial condition or results of operations under different conditions or using different assumptions. Pepco Holdings has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of each of these policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Goodwill Impairment Evaluation Pepco Holdings believes that the estimates involved in its goodwill impairment evaluation process represent Critical Accounting Estimates because (i) they may be susceptible to change from period to period because management is required to make assumptions and judgments about the discounting of future cash flows, which are inherently uncertain, (ii) actual results could vary from those used in Pepco Holdings estimates and the impact of such variations could be material, and (iii) the impact that recognizing an impairment would have on Pepco Holdings assets and the net loss related to an impairment charge could be material. Pepco Holdings tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of July 1, and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change in the interim that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Substantially all of Pepco Holdings goodwill was generated by Pepcos acquisition of Conectiv in 2002 and was allocated to Pepco Holdings Power Delivery segment. In order to estimate the fair value of its Power Delivery segment, Pepco Holdings discounts the estimated future cash flows associated with the segment using a discounted cash flow model with a single interest rate that is commensurate with the risk involved with such an investment. The estimation of fair value is dependent on a number of 100 factors, including but not limited to interest rates, future growth assumptions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, changes in which could materially impact the results of impairment testing. Pepco Holdings July 1, 2007 goodwill impairment testing indicated that its goodwill balance was not impaired. A hypothetical decrease in the Power Delivery segments forecasted cash flows of 10 percent would not have resulted in an impairment charge. Long Lived Assets Impairment Evaluation Pepco Holdings believes that the estimates involved in its long lived asset impairment evaluation process represent Critical Accounting Estimates because (i) they are highly susceptible to change from period to period because management is required to make assumptions and judgments about undiscounted and discounted future cash flows and fair values, which are inherently uncertain, (ii) actual results could vary from those used in Pepco Holdings estimates and the impact of such variations could be material, and (iii) the impact that recognizing an impairment would have on Pepco Holdings assets as well as the net loss related to an impairment charge could be material. SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, requires that certain long lived assets must be tested for recoverability whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss may only be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable and the carrying amount exceeds its fair value. The asset is deemed not to be recoverable when its carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. In order to estimate an assets future cash flows, Pepco Holdings considers historical cash flows. Pepco Holdings uses its best estimates in making these evaluations and considers various factors, including forward price curves for energy, fuel costs, legislative initiatives, and operating costs. If necessary, the process of determining fair value is done consistent with the process described in assessing the fair value of goodwill, which is discussed above. For a discussion of PHIs impairment losses during 2007, refer to the Impairment Losses section in the accompanying Consolidated Results of Operations discussion. Accounting for Derivatives Pepco Holdings believes that the estimates involved in accounting for its derivative instruments represent Critical Accounting Estimates because (i) the fair value of the instruments are highly susceptible to changes in market value and or interest rate fluctuations, (ii) there are significant uncertainties in modeling techniques used to measure fair value in certain circumstances, (iii) actual results could vary from those used in Pepco Holdings estimates and the impact of such variations could be material, and (iv) changes in fair values and market prices could result in material impacts to Pepco Holdings assets, liabilities, other comprehensive income (loss), and results of operations. See Note (2), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Accounting for Derivatives to the consolidated financial statements of PHI included in Item 8 for information on PHIs accounting for derivatives. Pepco Holdings and its subsidiaries use derivative instruments primarily to manage risk associated with commodity prices and interest rates. SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative 101 Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, governs the accounting treatment for derivatives and requires that derivative instruments be measured at fair value. The fair value of derivatives is determined using quoted exchange prices where available. For instruments that are not traded on an exchange, external broker quotes are used to determine fair value. For some custom and complex instruments, an internal model is used to interpolate broker quality price information. The same valuation methods are used to determine the value of non derivative, commodity exposure for risk management purposes. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans Pepco Holdings believes that the estimates involved in reporting the costs of providing pension and other postretirement benefits represent Critical Accounting Estimates because (i) they are based on an actuarial calculation that includes a number of assumptions which are subjective in nature, (ii) they are dependent on numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience, and (iii) changes in assumptions could impact Pepco Holdings expected future cash funding requirements for the plans and would have an impact on the projected benefit obligations, the reported pension and other postretirement benefit liability on the balance sheet, and the reported annual net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit cost on the income statement. In terms of quantifying the anticipated impact of a change in assumptions, Pepco Holdings estimates that a .25% change in the discount rate used to value the benefit obligations could result in a $5 million impact on its consolidated balance sheets and statements of earnings. Additionally, Pepco Holdings estimates that a .25% change in the expected return on plan assets could result in a $4 million impact on the consolidated balance sheets and statements of earnings and a .25% change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate could result in a $.5 million impact on its consolidated balance sheets and statements of earnings. Pepco Holdings management consults with its actuaries and investment consultants when selecting its plan assumptions. Pepco Holdings follows the guidance of SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, and SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) (SFAS No. 158), when accounting for these benefits. Under these accounting standards, assumptions are made regarding the valuation of benefit obligations and the performance of plan assets. In accordance with these standards, the impact of changes in these assumptions and the difference between actual and expected or estimated results on pension and postretirement obligations is generally recognized over the working lives of the employees who benefit under the plans rather than immediately recognized in the statements of earnings. Plan assets are stated at their market value as of the measurement date, which is December 31. Regulation of Power Delivery Operations The requirements of SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, apply to the Power Delivery businesses of Pepco, DPL, and ACE. Pepco Holdings believes that the judgment involved in accounting for its regulated activities represent Critical Accounting Estimates because (i) a significant amount of judgment is required (including but not limited to the interpretation of laws and regulatory commission orders) to assess the probability of the recovery of regulatory assets, (ii) actual results and interpretations could vary from those used in Pepco Holdings estimates and the impact of 102 such variations could be material, and (iii) the impact that writing off a regulatory asset would have on Pepco Holdings assets and the net loss related to the charge could be material. Unbilled Revenue Unbilled revenue represents an estimate of revenue earned from services rendered by Pepco Holdings utility operations that have not yet been billed. Pepco Holdings utility operations calculate unbilled revenue using an output based methodology. This methodology is based on the supply of electricity or gas distributed to customers. Pepco Holdings believes that the estimates involved in its unbilled revenue process represent Critical Accounting Estimates because management is required to make assumptions and judgments about input factors such as customer sales mix and estimated power line losses (estimates of electricity expected to be lost in the process of its transmission and distribution to customers), all of which are inherently uncertain and susceptible to change from period to period, the impact of which could be material. Accounting for Income Taxes Pepco Holdings and the majority of its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return. Pepco Holdings accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes and effective January 1, 2007, adopted FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. FIN 48 clarifies the criteria for recognition of tax benefits in accordance with SFAS No. 109, and prescribes a financial statement recognition threshold and measurement attribute for a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Specifically, it clarifies that an entitys tax benefits must be more likely than not of being sustained assuming that position will be examined by taxing authorities with full knowledge of all relevant information prior to recording the related tax benefit in the financial statements. If the position drops below the more likely than not standard, the benefit can no longer be recognized. Assumptions, judgment and the use of estimates are required in determining if the more likely than not standard has been met when developing the provision for income taxes. Pepco Holdings assumptions, judgments and estimates take into account current tax laws, interpretation of current tax laws and the possible outcomes of current and future investigations conducted by tax authorities. Pepco Holdings has established reserves for income taxes to address potential exposures involving tax positions that could be challenged by tax authorities. Although Pepco Holdings believes that these assumptions, judgments and estimates are reasonable, changes in tax laws or its interpretation of tax laws and the resolutions of the current and any future investigations could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in the consolidated financial statements. Under SFAS No. 109, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recorded, representing future effects on income taxes for temporary differences between the bases of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and tax purposes. Pepco Holdings evaluates quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and the availability of tax planning strategies that can be implemented, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. Failure to achieve forecasted taxable income or successfully implement tax planning strategies may affect the realization of deferred tax assets. 103 New Accounting Standards and Pronouncements For information concerning new accounting standards and pronouncements that have recently been adopted by PHI and its subsidiaries or that one or more of the companies will be required to adopt on or before a specified date in the future, see Note (2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Newly Adopted Accounting Standards and Recently Issued Accounting Policies, Not Yet Adopted to the consolidated financial statements of PHI set forth in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding Pepco Holdings intents, beliefs and current expectations. In some cases, you can identify forward looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Any forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward looking statements. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause PHIs actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. The forward looking statements contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following important factors, which are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond Pepco Holdings control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statements: Prevailing governmental policies and regulatory actions affecting the energy industry, including allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, acquisition and disposal of assets and facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, recovery of purchased power expenses, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition; Changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws and policies; Weather conditions; Population growth rates and demographic patterns; Competition for retail and wholesale customers; General economic conditions, including potential negative impacts resulting from an economic downturn; Growth in demand, sales and capacity to fulfill demand; Changes in tax rates or policies or in rates of inflation; 104 Changes in accounting standards or practices; Changes in project costs; Unanticipated changes in operating expenses and capital expenditures; The ability to obtain funding in the capital markets on favorable terms; Rules and regulations imposed by federal and or state regulatory commissions, PJM and other regional transmission organizations (New York Independent System Operator, ISONE), the North American Electric Reliability Council and other applicable electric reliability organizations; Legal and administrative proceedings (whether civil or criminal) and settlements that affect PHIs business and profitability; Pace of entry into new markets; Volatility in market demand and prices for energy, capacity and fuel; Interest rate fluctuations and credit market concerns; and Effects of geopolitical events, including the threat of domestic terrorism. Any forward looking statements speak only as to the date of this Annual Report and Pepco Holdings undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for Pepco Holdings to predict all of such factors, nor can Pepco Holdings assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. 105 THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK. 106 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS POTOMAC ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY GENERAL OVERVIEW Potomac Electric Power Company (Pepco) is engaged in the transmission and distribution of electricity in Washington, D.C. and major portions of Montgomery County and Prince Georges County in suburban Maryland. Pepco provides Default Electricity Supply, which is the supply of electricity at regulated rates to retail customers in its territories who do not elect to purchase electricity from a competitive supplier, in both the District of Columbia and Maryland. Default Electricity Supply is known as Standard Offer Service in both the District of Columbia and Maryland. Pepcos service territory covers approximately 640 square miles and has a population of approximately 2.1 million. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 57% of delivered electricity sales were to Maryland customers and approximately 43% were to Washington, D.C. customers. Effective June 16, 2007, the Maryland Public Service Commission (MPSC) approved new electric service distribution base rates for Pepco (the 2007 Maryland Rate Order). The MPSC also approved a bill stabilization adjustment mechanism (BSA) for retail customers. For customers to which the BSA applies, Pepco recognizes distribution revenue based on an approved distribution charge per customer. From a revenue recognition standpoint, the BSA thus decouples the distribution revenue recognized in a reporting period from the amount of power delivered during the period. This change in the reporting of distribution revenue has the effect of eliminating changes in customer usage (whether due to weather conditions, energy prices, energy efficiency programs or other reasons) as a factor having an impact on reported revenue. As a consequence, the only factors that will cause distribution revenue to fluctuate from period to period are changes in the number of customers and changes in the approved distribution charge per customer. Pepco is a wholly owned subsidiary of Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI or Pepco Holdings). Because PHI is a public utility holding company subject to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 (PUHCA 2005), the relationship between PHI and Pepco and certain activities of Pepco are subject to the regulatory oversight of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission under PUHCA 2005. 107 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following results of operations discussion compares the year ended December 31, 2007 to the year ended December 31, 2006. Other than this disclosure, information under this item has been omitted in accordance with General Instruction I(2)(a) to the Form 10 K. All amounts in the tables (except sales and customers) are in millions of dollars. Operating Revenue 2007 2006 Change Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 927.9 $ 854.1 $ 73.8 Default Supply Revenue 1,241.4 1,331.7 (90.3 ) Other Electric Revenue 31.6 30.7 0.9 Total Operating Revenue $ 2,200.9 $ 2,216.5 $ (15.6 ) The table above shows the amount of Operating Revenue earned that is subject to price regulation (Regulated Transmission and Distribution (T&D) Electric Revenue and Default Supply Revenue) and that which is not subject to price regulation (Other Electric Revenue). Regulated T&D Electric Revenue includes revenue from the transmission and the delivery of electricity, including the delivery of Default Electricity Supply, to Pepcos customers within its service territory at regulated rates. Default Supply Revenue is the revenue received for Default Electricity Supply. The costs related to Default Electricity Supply are included in Fuel and Purchased Energy expense. Other Electric Revenue includes work and services performed on behalf of customers, including other utilities, which is not subject to price regulation. Work and services includes mutual assistance to other utilities, highway relocation, rentals of pole attachments, late payment fees, and collection fees. Regulated T&D Electric Regulated T&D Electric Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 262.4 $ 244.7 $ 17.7 Commercial 529.4 501.8 27.6 Industrial Other 136.1 107.6 28.5 Total Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 927.9 $ 854.1 $ 73.8 Other Regulated T&D Electric Revenue consists primarily of (i) transmission service revenue received by Pepco from PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) as a transmission owner, (ii) revenue from the resale of energy and capacity under power purchase agreements between Pepco and unaffiliated third parties in the PJM Regional Transmission Organization (PJM RTO) market, and (iii) either (a) a positive adjustment equal to the amount by which revenue from Maryland retail distribution sales falls short of the revenue that Pepco is entitled to earn based on the distribution charge per customer approved in the 2007 Maryland Rate Order or (b) a negative adjustment equal to the amount by which revenue from such distribution sales exceeds the 108 revenue that Pepco is entitled to earn based on the approved distribution charge per customer (a Revenue Decoupling Adjustment). Regulated T&D Electric Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential 8,093 7,694 399 Commercial 19,197 18,632 565 Industrial Other 161 162 (1) Total Regulated T&D Electric Sales 27,451 26,488 963 Regulated T&D Electric Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 687 680 7 Commercial 73 73 Industrial Other Total Regulated T&D Electric Customers 760 753 7 Regulated T&D Electric Revenue increased by $73.8 million primarily due to the following: (i) $28.8 million increase in Other Regulated T&D Electric Revenue from the resale of energy and capacity purchased under the power purchase agreement between Panda Brandywine, L.P. (Panda) and Pepco (the Panda PPA) (offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy), (ii) $26.1 million increase due to higher weather related sales (a 21% increase in Cooling Degree Days and a 10% increase in Heating Degree Days), (iii) $12.1 million increase due to higher pass through revenue primarily resulting from tax rate increases in the District of Columbia (offset primarily in Other Taxes), (iv) $11.5 million increase due to a 2007 Maryland Rate Order that became effective in June 2007, which includes a positive $3.3 million Revenue Decoupling Adjustment. Default Electricity Supply Default Supply Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 774.5 $ 612.5 $ 162.0 Commercial 458.9 716.6 (257.7 ) Industrial Other (includes PJM) 8.0 2.6 5.4 Total Default Supply Revenue $ 1,241.4 $ 1,331.7 $ (90.3 ) Default Electricity Supply Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential 7,692 7,269 423 Commercial 4,384 8,160 (3,776) Industrial Other 37 33 4 Total Default Electricity Supply Sales 12,113 15,462 (3,349) 109 Default Electricity Supply Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 659 652 7 Commercial 52 54 (2) Industrial Other Total Default Electricity Supply Customers 711 706 5 Default Supply Revenue, which is partially offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy, decreased by $90.3 million primarily due to the following: (i) $279.8 million decrease primarily due to commercial customers electing to purchase an increased amount of electricity from competitive suppliers, (ii) $54.4 million decrease due to differences in consumption among the various customer rate classes, partially offset by (iii) $194.9 million increase due to annual increases in market based Default Electricity Supply rates, and (iv) $48.0 million increase due to higher weather related sales, (a 21% increase in Cooling Degree Days and a 10 % increase in Heating Degree Days). The following table shows percentages of Pepcos total sales by jurisdiction that are derived from customers receiving Default Electricity Supply in that jurisdiction from Pepco. 2007 2006 Sales to District of Columbia customers 35% 57% Sales to Maryland customers 51% 60% Operating Expenses Fuel and Purchased Energy Fuel and Purchased Energy, which is primarily associated with Default Electricity Supply sales, decreased by $53.9 million to $1,245.8 million in 2007 from $1,299.7 in 2006. The decrease is primarily due to the following: (i) $316.1 million decrease primarily due to commercial customers electing to purchase an increased amount of electricity from competitive suppliers, (ii) $28.3 million decrease in the Default Electricity Supply deferral balance, partially offset by (iii) $211.6 million increase in average energy costs, the result of new annual Default Electricity Supply contracts, (iv) $49.1 million increase due to higher weather related sales, and (v) $28.8 million increase for energy and capacity purchased under the Panda PPA (offset in Regulated T&D Electric Revenue). Fuel and Purchased Energy expense is primarily offset in Default Supply Revenue. Other Operation and Maintenance Other Operation and Maintenance increased by $22.7 million to $300.0 million in 2007 from $277.3 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to the following: (i) $7.0 million increase in preventative maintenance and system operation costs, (ii) $6.9 million increase in employee related costs, (iii) $3.9 million increase in regulatory expenses, (iv) $3.4 million increase due to construction project write offs related to customer requested work, and (v) $2.0 million increase due to higher bad debt expenses. 110 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and Amortization expenses decreased by $14.8 million to $151.4 million in 2007 from $166.2 million in 2006, primarily due to a change in depreciation rates in accordance with the 2007 Maryland Rate Order. Effect of Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims The Effect of Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims reflects the recovery of $33.4 million in operating expenses and certain other costs as damages in the Mirant bankruptcy settlement. Other Taxes Other Taxes increased $16.4 million to $289.5 million in 2007 from $273.1 million in 2006 primarily due to increased pass throughs resulting from tax rate increases in the District of Columbia (partially offset in Regulated T&D Electric Revenue). Income Tax Expense Pepcos effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were 33.2% and 40.2%, respectively. The 7.0% decrease in the effective tax rate in 2007 was primarily the result of a 2007 Maryland state income tax refund. The refund was due to an increase in the tax basis of certain assets sold in 2000, and as a result, Pepcos 2007 income tax expense was reduced by $19.5 million with a corresponding decrease to the effective tax rate of 10.4%. This decrease in the effective tax rate was partially offset by 2007 deferred tax basis adjustments and reduced book versus tax depreciation and amortization differences, which increased the year over year effective tax rate by 2.4% and 0.9%, respectively. Capital Requirements Capital Expenditures Pepcos total capital expenditures for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, totaled $272.2 million. These expenditures were primarily related to capital costs associated with new customer services, distribution reliability and transmission. The table below shows Pepcos projected capital expenditures for the five year period 2008 through 2012: For the Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total (Millions of Dollars) Pepco Distribution $ 192 $ 215 $ 212 $ 232 $ 331 $ 1,182 Distribution Blueprint for the Future 24 61 61 63 5 214 Transmission 45 64 167 168 62 506 MAPP 17 72 30 119 Other 15 17 12 12 11 67 $ 293 $ 429 $ 482 $ 475 $ 409 $ 2,088 111 Pepco expects to fund these expenditures through internally generated cash and from external financing and capital contributions from PHI. Distribution, Transmission and Gas Delivery The projected capital expenditures for distribution (other than Blueprint for the Future), transmission (other than MAPP) and gas delivery are primarily for facility replacements and upgrades to accommodate customer growth and reliability. Blueprint for the Future During 2007, PHI announced an initiative in Pepcos service territory referred to as the Blueprint for the Future. This initiative combines traditional energy efficiency programs with new technologies and systems to help customers manage their energy use and reduce the total cost of energy, and includes the installation of smart meters for all customers in the District of Columbia and Maryland. Pepco has made filings with the District of Columbia Public Service Commission and the MPSC for approval of certain aspects of these programs. MAPP Project On October 17, 2007, Pepco Holdings received the approval of the PJM Board of Managers to build a new 230 mile, 500 kilovolt interstate transmission line as part of PJMs Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to address the reliability objectives of the PJM RTO system. The transmission line, which is referred to as the MAPP Project, will be located in northern Virginia, Maryland, the Delmarva Peninsula, and New Jersey. The preliminarily estimated cost of the 500 kilovolt MAPP Project is approximately $1 billion. Pepcos portion of the preliminary estimated cost of the 500 kilovolt transmission line is approximately $119 million. Construction is expected to occur in sections over a six year period with completion targeted by 2013. Proceeds from Settlement of Mirant Bankruptcy Claims In 2000, Pepco sold substantially all of its electricity generating assets to Mirant Corporation (Mirant). In 2003, Mirant commenced a voluntary bankruptcy proceeding in which it sought to reject certain obligations that it had undertaken in connection with the asset sale. As part of the asset sale, Pepco entered into transition power agreements with Mirant pursuant to which Mirant agreed to supply all of the energy and capacity needed by Pepco to fulfill its SOS obligations in Maryland and in the District of Columbia (the TPAs). Under a settlement to avoid the rejection by Mirant of its obligations under the TPAs in the bankruptcy proceeding, the terms of the TPAs were modified to increase the purchase price of the energy and capacity supplied by Mirant and Pepco received an allowed, pre petition general unsecured claim in the bankruptcy in the amount of $105 million (the TPA Claim). In December 2005, Pepco sold the TPA Claim, plus the right to receive accrued interest thereon, to an unaffiliated third party for $112.5 million. In addition, Pepco received proceeds of $.5 million in settlement of an asbestos claim against the Mirant bankruptcy estate. After customer sharing, Pepco recorded a pre tax gain of $70.5 million from the settlement of these claims. In connection with the asset sale, Pepco and Mirant also entered into a back to back arrangement, whereby Mirant agreed to purchase from Pepco the 230 megawatts of electricity and capacity that Pepco is obligated to purchase annually through 2021 from Panda Brandywine LLP (Panda) under a power purchase agreement (the Panda PPA) at the purchase price Pepco is 112 obligated to pay to Panda. As part of the further settlement of Pepcos claims against Mirant arising from the Mirant bankruptcy, Pepco agreed not to contest the rejection by Mirant of its obligations under the back to back arrangement in exchange for the payment by Mirant of damages corresponding to the estimated amount by which the purchase price that Pepco is obligated to pay Panda for the energy and capacity exceeded the market price. In 2007, Pepco received as damages $413.9 million in net proceeds from the sale of shares of Mirant common stock issued to it by Mirant. These funds are being accounted for as restricted cash based on managements intent to use such funds, and any interest earned thereon, for the sole purpose of paying for the future above market capacity and energy purchase costs under the Panda PPA. Correspondingly, a regulatory liability has been established in the same amount to help offset the future above market capacity and energy purchase costs. This restricted cash has been classified as a non current asset to be consistent with the classification of the non current regulatory liability, and any changes in the balance of this restricted cash, including interest on the invested funds, are being accounted for as operating cash flows. As of December 31, 2007, the balance of the restricted cash account was $417.3 million. Based on a reexamination of the costs of the Panda PPA in light of current and projected wholesale market conditions conducted in the fourth quarter of 2007, Pepco determined that, principally due to increases in wholesale capacity prices, the present value above market cost of the Panda PPA over the term of the agreement is expected to be significantly less than the current amount of the restricted cash account balance. Accordingly, on February 22, 2008, Pepco filed applications with the DCPSC and the MPSC requesting orders directing Pepco to maintain $320 million in the restricted cash account and to use that cash, and any future earnings on the cash, for the sole purpose of paying the future above market cost of the Panda PPA (or, in the alternative, to fund a transfer or assignment of the remaining obligations under the Panda PPA to a third party). Pepco also requested that the order provide that any cash remaining in the account at the conclusion of the Panda PPA be refunded to customers and that any shortfall be recovered from customers. Pepco further proposed that the excess proceeds remaining from the settlement (approximately $94.6 million, representing the amount by which the regulatory liability of $414.6 million at December 31, 2007 exceeded $320 million) be shared with its customers in accordance with the procedures previously approved by each commission for the sharing of the proceeds received by Pepco from the sale to Mirant of its generating assets. The regulatory liability of $414.6 million at December 31, 2007 differs from the restricted cash amount of $417.3 million on that date, in part, because the regulatory liability has been reduced for the portion of the December 2007 Panda charges in excess of market that had not yet been paid from the restricted cash account. The amount of the restricted cash balance that Pepco is permitted to retain will be recorded as earnings upon approval of the sharing arrangement by the respective commissions. At this time, Pepco cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. In settlement of other damages claims against Mirant, Pepco in 2007 also received a settlement payment in the amount of $70.0 million. Of this amount (i) $33.4 million was recorded as a reduction in operating expenses, (ii) $21.0 million was recorded as a reduction in a net pre petition receivable claim from Mirant, (iii) $15.0 million was recorded as a reduction in the capitalized costs of certain property, plant and equipment and (iv) $.6 million was recorded as a liability to reimburse a third party for certain legal costs associated with the settlement. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 113 amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding Pepcos intents, beliefs and current expectations. In some cases, you can identify forward looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Any forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward looking statements. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause Pepcos or Pepcos industrys actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. The forward looking statements contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following important factors, which are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond Pepcos control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statements: Prevailing governmental policies and regulatory actions affecting the energy industry, including allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, acquisition and disposal of assets and facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, recovery of purchased power expenses, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition; Changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws and policies; Weather conditions; Population growth rates and demographic patterns; Competition for retail and wholesale customers; General economic conditions, including potential negative impacts resulting from an economic downturn; Growth in demand, sales and capacity to fulfill demand; Changes in tax rates or policies or in rates of inflation; Changes in project costs; Unanticipated changes in operating expenses and capital expenditures; The ability to obtain funding in the capital markets on favorable terms; Restrictions imposed by federal and or state regulatory commissions, PJM, the North American Electric Reliability Council and other applicable electric reliability organizations; Legal and administrative proceedings (whether civil or criminal) and settlements that affect Pepcos business and profitability; Volatility in market demand and prices for energy, capacity and fuel; 114 Interest rate fluctuations and credit market concerns; and Effects of geopolitical events, including the threat of domestic terrorism. Any forward looking statements speak only as to the date of this Annual Report and Pepco undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for Pepco to predict all of such factors, nor can Pepco assess the impact of any such factor on Pepcos business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. 115 THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK. 116 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DELMARVA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY GENERAL OVERVIEW Delmarva Power & Light Company (DPL) is engaged in the transmission and distribution of electricity in Delaware and portions of Maryland and Virginia (until the sale of its Virginia operations on January 2, 2008). DPL provides Default Electricity Supply, which is the supply of electricity at regulated rates to retail customers in its territories who do not elect to purchase electricity from a competitive supplier. Default Electricity Supply is also known as Default Service in Virginia (until the sale of its Virginia operations on January 2, 2008), as Standard Offer Service in Maryland and in Delaware on and after May 1, 2006, and as Provider of Last Resort (POLR) service in Delaware before May 1, 2006. DPLs electricity distribution service territory covers approximately 6,000 square miles and has a population of approximately 1.3 million. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 65% of delivered electricity sales were to Delaware customers, approximately 32% were to Maryland customers, and approximately 3% were to Virginia customers. DPL also provides natural gas distribution service in northern Delaware. DPLs natural gas distribution service territory covers approximately 275 square miles and has a population of approximately .5 million. On January 2, 2008, DPL completed (i) the sale of its retail electric distribution business on the Eastern Shore of Virginia to A&N Electric Cooperative (A&N) for a purchase price of approximately $45.2 million, after closing adjustments, and (ii) the sale of its wholesale electric transmission business located on the Eastern Shore of Virginia to Old Dominion Electric Cooperative (ODEC) for a purchase price of approximately $5.4 million, after closing adjustments. Each of A&N and ODEC assumed certain post closing liabilities and unknown pre closing liabilities related to the respective assets they are purchasing (including, in the A&N transaction, most environmental liabilities), except that DPL remained liable for unknown pre closing liabilities if they become known within six months after the January 2, 2008 closing date. These sales resulted in an immaterial financial gain to DPL that will be recorded during the first quarter of 2008. Effective June 16, 2007, the Maryland Public Service Commission (MPSC) approved new electric service distribution base rates for DPL (the 2007 Maryland Rate Order). The MPSC also approved a bill stabilization adjustment mechanism (BSA) for retail customers. For customers to which the BSA applies, DPL recognizes distribution revenue based on an approved distribution charge per customer. From a revenue recognition standpoint, the BSA thus decouples the distribution revenue recognized in a reporting period from the amount of power delivered during the period. This change in the reporting of distribution revenue has the effect of eliminating changes in customer usage (whether due to weather conditions, energy prices, energy efficiency programs or other reasons) as a factor having an impact on reported revenue. As a consequence, the only factors that will cause distribution revenue to fluctuate from period to period are changes in the number of customers and changes in the approved distribution charge per customer. 117 DPL is a wholly owned subsidiary of Conectiv, which is wholly owned by Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI). Because PHI is a public utility holding company subject to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 (PUHCA 2005), the relationship between PHI and DPL and certain activities of DPL are subject to the regulatory oversight of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission under PUHCA 2005. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following results of operations discussion compares the year ended December 31, 2007 to the year ended December 31, 2006. Other than this disclosure, information under this item has been omitted in accordance with General Instruction I(2)(a) to the Form 10 K. All amounts in the tables (except sales and customers) are in millions of dollars. Operating Revenue 2007 2006 Change Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 337.4 $ 333.4 $ 4.0 Default Supply Revenue 846.4 812.5 33.9 Other Electric Revenue 20.9 22.1 (1.2 ) Total Electric Operating Revenue $ 1,204.7 $ 1,168.0 $ 36.7 The table above shows the amount of Electric Operating Revenue earned that is subject to price regulation (Regulated Transmission and Distribution (T&D) Electric Revenue and Default Supply Revenue) and that which is not subject to price regulation (Other Electric Revenue). Regulated T&D Electric Revenue includes revenue from the transmission and the delivery of electricity, including the delivery of Default Electricity Supply, to DPLs customers within its service territory at regulated rates. Default Supply Revenue is the revenue received for Default Electricity Supply. The costs related to Default Electricity Supply are included in Fuel and Purchased Energy expense. Other Electric Revenue includes work and services performed on behalf of customers, including other utilities, which is not subject to price regulation. Work and services includes mutual assistance to other utilities, highway relocation, rentals of pole attachments, late payment fees, and collection fees. Regulated T&D Electric Regulated T&D Electric Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 166.6 $ 162.5 $ 4.1 Commercial 90.7 90.0 .7 Industrial 12.0 13.5 (1.5 ) Other 68.1 67.4 .7 Total Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 337.4 $ 333.4 $ 4.0 Other Regulated T&D Electric Revenue consists primarily of (i) transmission service revenue received by DPL from PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) as a transmission owner, and 118 (ii) either (a) a positive adjustment equal to the amount by which revenue from Maryland retail distribution sales falls short of the revenue that DPL is entitled to earn based on the distribution charge per customer approved in the 2007 Maryland Rate Order or (b) a negative adjustment equal to the amount by which revenue from such distribution sales exceeds the revenue that DPL is entitled to earn based on the approved distribution charge per customer (a Revenue Decoupling Adjustment). Regulated T&D Electric Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential 5,333 5,170 163 Commercial 5,471 5,357 114 Industrial 2,825 2,899 (74) Other 51 51 Total Regulated T&D Electric Sales 13,680 13,477 203 Regulated T&D Electric Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 456 451 5 Commercial 61 60 1 Industrial 1 1 Other 1 1 Total Regulated T&D Electric Customers 519 513 6 Regulated T&D Electric Revenue increased by $4.0 million primarily due to the following: (i) $11.0 million increase due to higher weather related sales (a 15% increase in Heating Degree Days and a 13% increase in Cooling Degree Days), (ii) $8.8 million increase due to a 2007 Maryland Rate Order that became effective in June 2007, which includes a positive $1.6 million Revenue Decoupling Adjustment, partially offset by (iii) $10.0 million decrease due to a change in Delaware rate structure effective May 1, 2006, which shifted revenue from Regulated T&D Electric Revenue to Default Supply Revenue, and (iv) $4.0 million decrease due to a Delaware base rate reduction in May 2006. Default Electricity Supply Default Supply Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 556.2 $ 449.9 $ 106.3 Commercial 238.7 302.2 (63.5 ) Industrial 42.1 55.4 (13.3 ) Other (includes PJM) 9.4 5.0 4.4 Total Default Supply Revenue $ 846.4 $ 812.5 $ 33.9 Default Electricity Supply Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 5,257 $ 5,154 $ 103 Commercial 2,291 3,472 (1,181) Industrial 551 983 (432) Other 45 49 (4) Total Default Electricity Supply Sales $ 8,144 $ 9,658 $ (1,514) 119 Default Electricity Supply Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 447 449 (2) Commercial 51 53 (2) Industrial Other 1 1 Total Default Electricity Supply Customers 499 503 (4) Default Supply Revenue, which is partially offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy, increased by $33.9 million primarily due to the following: (i) $116.0 million increase due to annual increases in market based Default Electricity Supply rates, (ii) $27.0 million increase due to higher weather related sales (a 15% increase in Heating Degree Days and a 13% increase in Cooling Degree Days), (iii) $10.0 million increase due to a change in Delaware rate structure effective May 1, 2006 that shifted revenue from Regulated T&D Electric Revenue to Default Supply Revenue, partially offset by (iv) $68.0 million decrease primarily due to commercial and industrial customers electing to purchase an increased amount of electricity from competitive suppliers, and (v) $50.0 million decrease due to differences in consumption among the various customer rate classes. The following table shows the percentages of DPLs total sales by jurisdiction that are derived from customers receiving Default Electricity Supply in that jurisdiction from DPL. 2007 2006 Sales to Delaware customers 54% 69% Sales to Maryland customers 67% 75% Sales to Virginia customers 94% 94% Natural Gas Operating Revenue 2007 2006 Change Regulated Gas Revenue $ 211.3 $ 204.8 $ 6.5 Other Gas Revenue 80.0 50.6 29.4 Total Natural Gas Operating Revenue $ 291.3 $ 255.4 $ 35.9 The table above shows the amounts of Natural Gas Operating Revenue from sources that are subject to price regulation (Regulated Gas Revenue) and those that generally are not subject to price regulation (Other Gas Revenue). Regulated Gas Revenue includes the revenue DPL receives for on system natural gas delivered sales and the transportation of natural gas for customers. Other Gas Revenue includes off system natural gas sales and the release of excess system capacity. 120 Regulated Gas Regulated Gas Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 124.0 $ 116.2 $ 7.8 Commercial 72.7 73.0 (.3 ) Industrial 8.2 10.3 (2.1 ) Transportation and Other 6.4 5.3 1.1 Total Regulated Gas Revenue $ 211.3 $ 204.8 $ 6.5 Regulated Gas Sales (Bcf) 2007 2006 Change Residential 7.9 6.6 1.3 Commercial 5.2 4.6 .6 Industrial .8 .8 Transportation and Other 6.8 6.3 .5 Total Regulated Gas Sales 20.7 18.3 2.4 Regulated Gas Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 112 112 Commercial 10 9 1 Industrial Transportation and Other Total Regulated Gas Customers 122 121 1 Regulated Gas Revenue increased by $6.5 million primarily due to (i) $11.7 million increase due to colder weather (a 15% increase in Heating Degree Days), (ii) $5.7 million increase due to base rate increases effective in November 2006 and April 2007, (iii) $4.8 million increase due to differences in consumption among the various customer rate classes, (iv) $2.7 million increase due to customer growth of 1% in 2007, partially offset by (v) $18.4 million decrease due to Gas Cost Rate decreases effective November 2006, April 2007 and November 2007 resulting from lower natural gas commodity costs (offset in Gas Purchased Expense). Other Gas Revenue increased by $29.4 million to $80.0 million in 2007 from $50.6 million in 2006 primarily due to higher off system sales (partially offset in Gas Purchased Expense). The gas sold off system resulted from increased demand from unaffiliated third party electric generators during periods of low customer demand for natural gas. Operating Expenses Fuel and Purchased Energy Fuel and Purchased Energy, which is primarily associated with Default Electricity Supply sales, increased by $21.8 million to $838.6 million in 2007 from $816.8 million in 2006. The increase is primarily due to (i) $143.8 million increase in average energy costs, the result of new annual Default Electricity Supply contracts, (ii) $27.1 million increase due to higher weather related sales, partially offset by (iii) $130.1 million decrease primarily due to commercial and 121 industrial customers electing to purchase an increased amount of electricity from competitive suppliers, (iv) $10.8 million decrease in network transmission expenses primarily due to POLR service obligations ending April 1, 2006, and (v) $8.1 million decrease in the Default Electricity Supply deferral balance. Fuel and Purchased Energy expense is primarily offset by Default Supply Revenue. Gas Purchased Total Gas Purchased, which is primarily offset in Regulated Gas Revenue and Other Gas Revenue, increased by $21.9 million to $220.3 million in 2007 from $198.4 million in 2006. The increase is primarily due to (i) $26.4 million increase in off system sales, partially offset by (ii) $4.6 million decrease from the settlement of financial hedges (entered into as part of DPLs regulated natural gas hedge program). Other Operation and Maintenance Other Operation and Maintenance increased by $20.5 million to $205.4 million in 2007 from $184.9 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to the following: (i) $4.3 million increase in costs associated with Default Electricity Supply (primarily deferred and recoverable), (ii) $4.2 million increase in preventative maintenance and system operation costs, (iii) $3.7 million increase in employee related costs, (iv) $2.5 million increase in customer service operation expenses, (v) $1.2 million increase due to higher bad debt expenses, and (vi) $1.1 million increase in accounting service expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and Amortization decreased by $2.3 million to $74.4 million in 2007 from $76.7 million in 2006. The decrease is primarily due to fully amortized software. Other Income (Expense) Other Expenses (which are net of Other Income) increased by $3.0 million to a net expense of $39.9 million in 2007 from a net expense of $36.9 million in 2006. The increase is primarily due to an increase in interest expense on inter company borrowings. Income Tax Expense DPLs effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were 45.3% and 43.0%, respectively. The 2.3% increase in the effective tax rate in 2007 was primarily the result of certain 2007 deferred tax basis adjustments which increased the 2007 effective tax rate by 3.9 %. This increase in the effective tax rate was partially offset by 2007 and 2006 changes in estimates related to prior year tax liabilities, which reduced the year over year effective tax rate by 2.0%. Capital Requirements Capital Expenditures DPLs total capital expenditures for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, totaled $132.6 million. These expenditures were primarily related to capital costs associated with new customer services, distribution reliability and transmission. 122 The table below shows DPLs projected capital expenditures for the five year period 2008 through 2012: For the Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total (Millions of Dollars) DPL Distribution $ 101 $ 118 $ 124 $ 124 $ 138 $ 605 Distribution Blueprint for the Future 22 58 59 30 9 178 Transmission 57 52 45 57 52 263 MAPP 11 107 210 271 185 784 Gas Delivery 23 24 19 19 18 103 Other 10 10 9 7 7 43 $ 224 $ 369 $ 466 $ 508 $ 409 $ 1,976 DPL expects to fund these expenditures through internally generated cash and from external financing and capital contributions from PHI. Distribution, Transmission and Gas Delivery The projected capital expenditures for distribution (other than Blueprint for the Future), transmission (other than MAPP) and gas delivery are primarily for facility replacements and upgrades to accommodate customer growth and reliability. Blueprint for the Future During 2007, PHI announced an initiative in DPLs service territory referred to as the Blueprint for the Future. This initiative combines traditional energy efficiency programs with new technologies and systems to help customers manage their energy use and reduce the total cost of energy, and includes the installation of smart meters for all customers in Delaware and Maryland. DPL has made filings with the Delaware Public Service Commission and the MPSC for approval of certain aspects of these programs. DPLs preliminarily estimated cost to implement these proposals, if approved by the applicable regulatory commissions, is summarized in the chart above for the five year period from 2008 to 2012. MAPP Project On October 17, 2007, Pepco Holdings received the approval of the PJM Board of Managers to build a new 230 mile, 500 kilovolt interstate transmission line as part of PJMs Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to address the reliability objectives of the PJM RTO system. The transmission line, which is referred to as the MAPP Project, will be located in northern Virginia, Maryland, the Delmarva Peninsula, and New Jersey. The preliminarily estimated cost of the 500 kilovolt MAPP Project is approximately $1 billion. DPLs portion of the preliminary cost of the 500 kilovolt transmission line is approximately $904 million. Construction is expected to occur in sections over a six year period with completion targeted by 2013. PHI also plans to add significant 230 kilovolt support lines in Maryland and New Jersey to connect with the new 500 kilovolt line at an approximate cost of $200 million. PJM continues to evaluate the 230 kilovolt support lines. Accordingly, DPLs projected construction costs associated with these support lines are not included in the table above. 123 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding DPLs intents, beliefs and current expectations. In some cases, you can identify forward looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Any forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward looking statements. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause DPL or DPLs industrys actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. The forward looking statements contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following important factors, which are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond DPLs control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statements: Prevailing governmental policies and regulatory actions affecting the energy industry, including allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, acquisition and disposal of assets and facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, recovery of purchased power expenses, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition; Changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws and policies; Weather conditions; Population growth rates and demographic patterns; Competition for retail and wholesale customers; General economic conditions, including potential negative impacts resulting from an economic downturn; Growth in demand, sales and capacity to fulfill demand; Changes in tax rates or policies or in rates of inflation; Changes in project costs; Unanticipated changes in operating expenses and capital expenditures; The ability to obtain funding in the capital markets on favorable terms; Restrictions imposed by federal and or state regulatory commissions, PJM, the North American Electric Reliability Council and other applicable electric reliability organizations 124 Legal and administrative proceedings (whether civil or criminal) and settlements that affect DPLs business and profitability; Volatility in market demand and prices for energy, capacity and fuel; Interest rate fluctuations and credit market concerns; and Effects of geopolitical events, including the threat of domestic terrorism. Any forward looking statements speak only as to the date of this Annual Report and DPL undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for DPL to predict all of such factors, nor can DPL assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. 125 THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK. 126 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ATLANTIC CITY ELECTRIC COMPANY GENERAL OVERVIEW Atlantic City Electric Company (ACE) is engaged in the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity in southern New Jersey. ACE provides Default Electricity Supply, which is the supply of electricity at regulated rates to retail customers in its service territory who do not elect to purchase electricity from a competitive supplier. Default Electricity Supply is also known as Basic Generation Service (BGS) in New Jersey. ACEs service territory covers approximately 2,700 square miles and has a population of approximately 1.0 million. ACE is a wholly owned subsidiary of Conectiv, which is wholly owned by Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI or Pepco Holdings). Because PHI is a public utility holding company subject to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 (PUHCA 2005), the relationship between PHI and ACE and certain activities of ACE are subject to the regulatory oversight of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission under PUHCA 2005. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS On February 8, 2007, ACE completed the sale of the B.L. England generating facility. B.L. England comprised a significant component of ACEs generation operations and its sale requires discontinued operations presentation under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, on ACEs Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. In September 2006, ACE sold its interests in the Keystone and Conemaugh generating facilities, which for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, are also reflected as discontinued operations. The following table summarizes information related to the discontinued operations for the years presented (millions of dollars): 2007 2006 2005 Operating Revenue $ 9.7 $ 113.7 $ 170.3 Income Before Income Tax Expense and Extraordinary Item $ .2 $ 4.4 $ 5.2 Net Income $ .1 $ 2.6 $ 3.1 127 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following results of operations discussion compares the year ended December 31, 2007 to the year ended December 31, 2006. Other than this disclosure, information under this item has been omitted in accordance with General Instruction I(2)(a) to the Form 10 K. All amounts in the tables (except sales and customers) are in millions of dollars. Operating Revenue 2007 2006 Change Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 366.5 $ 345.6 $ 20.9 Default Supply Revenue 1,159.4 1,014.0 145.4 Other Electric Revenue 16.6 13.7 2.9 Total Operating Revenue $ 1,542.5 $ 1,373.3 $ 169.2 The table above shows the amount of Operating Revenue earned that is subject to price regulation (Regulated Transmission and Distribution (T&D) Electric Revenue and Default Supply Revenue) and that which is not subject to price regulation (Other Electric Revenue). Regulated T&D Electric Revenue consists of revenue from the transmission and the delivery of electricity, including the delivery of Default Electricity Supply, to ACEs customers within its service territory at regulated rates. Default Supply Revenue is the revenue received for Default Electricity Supply. The costs related to Default Electricity Supply are included in Fuel and Purchased Energy expense. Also included in Default Supply Revenue is revenue from transition bond charges and other restructuring related revenues (see Deferred Electric Service Costs). Other Electric Revenue includes work and services performed on behalf of customers, including other utilities, which is not subject to price regulation. Work and services includes mutual assistance to other utilities, highway relocation, rentals of pole attachments, late payment fees, and collection fees. Regulated T&D Electric Regulated T&D Electric Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 177.0 $ 168.5 $ 8.5 Commercial 111.1 107.2 3.9 Industrial 15.4 15.1 0.3 Other 63.0 54.8 8.2 Total Regulated T&D Electric Revenue $ 366.5 $ 345.6 $ 20.9 Other Regulated T&D Electric Revenue consists primarily of transmission service revenue received by ACE from PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) as a transmission owner. 128 Regulated T&D Electric Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential 4,520 4,275 245 Commercial 4,469 4,389 80 Industrial 1,149 1,220 (71) Other 49 47 2 Total Regulated T&D Electric Sales 10,187 9,931 256 Regulated T&D Electric Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 479 474 5 Commercial 63 63 Industrial 1 1 Other 1 1 Total Regulated T&D Electric Customers 544 539 5 Regulated T&D Electric Revenue increased by $20.9 million primarily due to the following: (i) $8.1 million increase in transmission service revenue primarily due to an increase in the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission formula rate in June 2007, (ii) $5.9 million increase due to higher weather related sales (a 10% increase in Heating Degree Days and an 8% increase in Cooling Degree Days), (iii) $4.5 million increase due to differences in consumption among the various customer rate classes, and (iv) $2.4 million increase due to customer growth of 1.0% in 2007. Default Electricity Supply Default Supply Revenue 2007 2006 Change Residential $ 485.7 $ 420.5 $ 65.2 Commercial 364.2 333.8 30.4 Industrial 50.0 52.8 (2.8 ) Other 259.5 206.9 52.6 Total Default Supply Revenue $ 1,159.4 $ 1,014.0 $ 145.4 Other Default Supply Revenue consists primarily of revenue from the resale of energy and capacity under non utility generating contracts between ACE and unaffiliated third parties (NUGs) in the PJM Regional Transmission Organization (PJM RTO) market. Default Electricity Supply Sales (GWh) 2007 2006 Change Residential 4,520 4,275 245 Commercial 3,235 3,167 68 Industrial 363 396 (33) Other 49 47 2 Total Default Electricity Supply Sales 8,167 7,885 282 129 Default Electricity Supply Customers (in thousands) 2007 2006 Change Residential 479 474 5 Commercial 63 63 Industrial 1 1 Other 1 1 Total Default Electricity Supply Customers 544 539 5 Default Supply Revenue, which is partially offset in Fuel and Purchased Energy, increased by $145.4 million primarily due to the following: (i) $68.2 million increase due to annual increases in market based Default Electricity Supply rates, (ii) $53.7 million increase in wholesale energy revenues due to the sale in PJM at higher market prices of electricity purchased from NUGs, and (iii) $11.6 million increase due to higher weather related sales (a 10% increase in Heating Degree Days and an 8% increase in Cooling Degree Days). For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, ACEs customers served energy by ACE represented 80% and 78%, respectively, of ACEs total sales. Operating Expenses Fuel and Purchased Energy Fuel and Purchased Energy, which is primarily associated with Default Electricity Supply sales, increased by $126.8 million to $1,051.0 million in 2007 from $924.2 in 2006. The increase is primarily due to the following: (i) $89.8 million increase due to new annual BGS supply contracts, and (ii) $16.8 million increase due to higher weather related sales. Fuel and Purchased Energy expense is primarily offset in Default Supply Revenue. Other Operation and Maintenance Other Operation and Maintenance increased by $17.1 million to $164.8 million in 2007 from $147.7 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to the following: (i) $5.2 million increase in employee related costs, (ii) $3.1 million increase in Demand Side Management program costs (offset in Deferred Electric Service costs), (iii) $2.8 million increase in customer service operation expenses, (iv) $1.5 million increase in accounting service expenses, and (v) $.7 million increase in regulatory expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and Amortization expenses decreased by $31.1 million to $80.2 million in 2007 from $111.3 million in 2006. The decrease is primarily due to lower amortization of regulatory assets resulting from the 2006 sale of ACEs interests in Keystone and Conemaugh. Deferred Electric Service Costs Deferred Electric Service Costs increased by $51.0 million to an expense of $66.0 million in 2007 from an expense of $15.0 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to (i) $37.5 million net over recovery associated with non utility generating contracts between ACE and unaffiliated third parties, (ii) $11.7 million net over recovery associated with BGS energy costs, 130 partially offset by (iii) $3.2 million net under recovery associated with Demand Side Management program costs. Income Tax Expense ACEs effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were 40.5% and 35.4%, respectively. The 5.1% increase in the effective tax rate in 2007 was primarily the result of 2007 and 2006 changes in estimates related to prior year tax liabilities, which increased the year over year effective tax rate by 4.8%. Capital Requirements Capital Expenditures ACEs total capital expenditures for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, totaled $149.4 million. These expenditures were primarily related to capital costs associated with new customer services, distribution reliability and transmission. The table below shows ACEs projected capital expenditures for the five year period 2008 through 2012: For the Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total (Millions of Dollars) ACE Distribution $ 96 $ 107 $ 101 $ 109 $ 111 $ 524 Distribution Blueprint for the Future 15 11 16 20 85 147 Transmission 78 17 25 45 47 212 MAPP 1 2 3 6 Other 10 10 8 7 5 40 $ 199 $ 145 $ 151 $ 183 $ 251 $ 929 ACE expects to fund these expenditures through internally generated cash and from external financing and capital contributions from PHI. Distribution, Transmission and Gas Delivery The projected capital expenditures for distribution (other than Blueprint for the Future), transmission (other than MAPP) and gas delivery are primarily for facility replacements and upgrades to accommodate customer growth and reliability. Blueprint for the Future During 2007, PHI announced an initiative in ACEs service territory referred to as the Blueprint for the Future. This initiative combines traditional energy efficiency programs with new technologies and systems to help customers manage their energy use and reduce the total cost of energy, and includes the installation of smart meters for all customers in New Jersey. In November 2007, ACE filed its Blueprint for the Future proposal with the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities. 131 MAPP Project On October 17, 2007, Pepco Holdings received the approval of the PJM Board of Managers to build a new 230 mile, 500 kilovolt interstate transmission line as part of PJMs Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to address the reliability objectives of the PJM RTO system. The transmission line, which is referred to as the MAPP Project, will be located in northern Virginia, Maryland, the Delmarva Peninsula, and New Jersey. The preliminarily estimated cost of the 500 kilovolt MAPP Project is approximately $1 billion. ACEs portion of the preliminary estimated cost of the 500 kilovolt transmission line is approximately $27 million. Construction is expected to occur in sections over a six year period with completion targeted by 2013. PHI also plans to add significant 230 kilovolt support lines in Maryland and New Jersey to connect with the new 500 kilovolt line at an approximate cost of $200 million. PJM continues to evaluate the 230 kilovolt support lines. Accordingly, ACEs projected construction costs associated with these support lines are not included in the table above. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include declarations regarding ACEs intents, beliefs and current expectations. In some cases, you can identify forward looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Any forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results could differ materially from those indicated by the forward looking statements. Forward looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause ACE or ACEs industrys actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. The forward looking statements contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following important factors, which are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties, are beyond ACEs control and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statements: Prevailing governmental policies and regulatory actions affecting the energy industry, including allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure, acquisition and disposal of assets and facilities, operation and construction of plant facilities, recovery of purchased power expenses, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition; Changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws and policies; Weather conditions; Population growth rates and demographic patterns; Competition for retail and wholesale customers; 132 General economic conditions, including potential negative impacts resulting from an economic downturn; Growth in demand, sales and capacity to fulfill demand; Changes in tax rates or policies or in rates of inflation; Changes in project costs; Unanticipated changes in operating expenses and capital expenditures; The ability to obtain funding in the capital markets on favorable terms; Restrictions imposed by federal and or state regulatory commissions, PJM, the North American Electric Reliability Council and other applicable electric reliability organizations; Legal and administrative proceedings (whether civil or criminal) and settlements that affect ACEs business and profitability; Volatility in market demand and prices for energy, capacity and fuel; Interest rate fluctuations and credit market concerns; and Effects of geopolitical events, including the threat of domestic terrorism. Any forward looking statements speak only as to the date of this Annual Report and ACE undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for ACE to predict all of such factors, nor can ACE assess the impact of any such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive. 133 THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK. 134 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Risk management policies for PHI and its subsidiaries are determined by PHIs Corporate Risk Management Committee, the members of which are PHIs Chief Risk Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Chief Information Officer and other senior executives. The Corporate Risk Management Committee monitors interest rate fluctuation, commodity price fluctuation, and credit risk exposure, and sets risk management policies that establish limits on unhedged risk and determine risk reporting requirements. Pepco Holdings, Inc. Commodity Price Risk PHIs Competitive Energy businesses use derivative instruments primarily to reduce their financial exposure to changes in the value of their assets and obligations due to commodity price fluctuations. The derivative instruments used by the Competitive Energy businesses include forward contracts, futures, swaps, and exchange traded and over the counter options. In addition, the Competitive Energy businesses also manage commodity risk with contracts that are not classified as derivatives. The two primary risk management objectives are (1) to manage the spread between the cost of fuel used to operate electric generation plants and the revenue received from the sale of the power produced by those plants, and (2) to manage the spread between retail sales commitments and the cost of supply used to service those commitments to ensure stable and known minimum cash flows, and lock in favorable prices and margins when they become available. To a lesser extent, Conectiv Energy also engages in energy marketing activities. Energy marketing activities consist primarily of wholesale natural gas and fuel oil marketing; the activities of the short term power desk, which generates margin by capturing price differences between power pools, and locational and timing differences within a power pool; and prior to October 31, 2006, provided operating services under an agreement with an unaffiliated generating plant. PHI collectively refers to these energy marketing activities, including its commodity risk management activities, as other energy commodity activities and identifies this activity separately from the discontinued proprietary trading activity that was discontinued in 2003. The Corporate Risk Management Committee has the responsibility for establishing corporate compliance requirements for the Competitive Energy businesses energy market participation. PHI collectively refers to these energy market activities, including its commodity risk management activities, as other energy commodity activities. PHI does not engage in proprietary trading activities. PHI uses a value at risk (VaR) model to assess the market risk of its Competitive Energy businesses energy commodity activities. PHI also uses other measures to limit and monitor risk in its energy commodity activities, including limits on the nominal size of positions and periodic loss limits. VaR represents the potential mark to market loss on energy contracts or portfolios due to changes in market prices for a specified time period and confidence level. PHI estimates VaR using a delta normal variance / covariance model with a 95 percent, one tailed confidence level and assuming a one day holding period. Since VaR is an estimate, it is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. 135 Value at Risk Associated with Energy Contracts For the Year Ended December 31, 2007 (Millions of dollars) Proprietary Trading VaR VaR for Competitive Energy Activity (a) 95% confidence level, one day holding period, one tailed Period end $ $ 4.2 Average for the period $ $ 5.8 High $ $ 12.0 Low $ $ 2.1 (a) This column represents all energy derivative contracts, normal purchase and sales contracts, modeled generation output and fuel requirements and modeled customer load obligations for PHIs other energy commodity activities. For additional information about PHIs derivative activities refer to Note (2), Accounting for Derivatives and Note 13, Use of Derivatives in Energy and Interest Rate Hedging Activities of the Consolidated Financial Statements of Pepco Holdings included in Item 8. A significant portion of the Conectiv Energys portfolio of electric generating plants consists of mid merit assets and peaking assets. Mid merit electric generating plants are typically combined cycle units that can quickly change their megawatt output level on an economic basis. These plants are generally operated during times when demand for electricity rises and power prices are higher. Conectiv Energy economically hedges both the estimated plant output and fuel requirements as the estimated levels of output and fuel needs change. Economic hedge percentages include the estimated electricity output of Conectiv Energys generation plants and any associated financial or physical commodity contracts (including derivative contracts that are classified as cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133, other derivative instruments, wholesale normal purchase and sales contracts, and load service obligations). Conectiv Energy maintains a forward 36 month program with targeted ranges for economically hedging its projected on peak plant output combined with its on peak energy purchase commitments (based on the then current forward electricity price curve) as follows: Month Target Range 1 12 50 100% 13 24 25 75% 25 36 0 50% The primary purpose of the risk management program is to improve the predictability and stability of margins by selling forward a portion of its projected plant output, and buying forward a portion of its projected fuel supply requirements. Within each period, hedged percentages can vary significantly above or below the average reported percentages. 136 As of December 31, 2007, the electricity sold forward by Conectiv Energy as a percentage of projected on peak plant output combined with on peak energy purchase commitments was 94%, 98%, and 39% for the 1 12 month, 13 24 month and 25 36 month forward periods, respectively. Hedge percentages were above the target ranges for the 13 24 month period due to Conectiv Energys success in the default electricity supply auctions and a decrease in projected on peak plant output since the forward sale commitments were entered into. The amount of forward on peak sales during the 1 12 month period represents 22% of Conectiv Energys combined total on peak generating capability and on peak energy purchase commitments. The volumetric percentages for the forward periods can vary and may not represent the amount of expected value hedged. Not all of the value associated with Conectiv Energys generation activities can be hedged such as the portion attributable to ancillary services and fuel switching due to the lack of market products, market liquidity, and other factors. Also the hedging of locational value can be limited. Pepco Energy Services purchases electric and natural gas futures, swaps, options and forward contracts to hedge price risk in connection with the purchase of physical natural gas and electricity for delivery to customers. Pepco Energy Services accounts for its futures and swap contracts as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions. Its options contracts are marked to market through current earnings. Its forward contracts are accounted for using standard accrual accounting since these contracts meet the requirements for normal purchase and sale accounting under SFAS No. 133. Credit and Nonperformance Risk Pepco Holdings subsidiaries attempt to minimize credit risk exposure to wholesale energy counterparties through, among other things, formal credit policies, regular assessment of counterparty creditworthiness and the establishment of a credit limit for each counterparty, monitoring procedures that include stress testing, the use of standard agreements which allow for the netting of positive and negative exposures associated with a single counterparty and collateral requirements under certain circumstances, and have established reserves for credit losses. As of December 31, 2007, credit exposure to wholesale energy counterparties was weighted 74% with investment grade counterparties, 22% with counterparties without external credit quality ratings, and 4% with non investment grade counterparties. This table provides information on the Competitive Energy businesses credit exposure, net of collateral, to wholesale counterparties. 137 Schedule of Credit Risk Exposure on Competitive Wholesale Energy Contracts (Millions of dollars) December 31, 2007 Rating (a) Exposure Before Credit Collateral (b) Credit Collateral (c) Net Exposure Number of Counterparties Greater Than 10% (d) Net Exposure of Counterparties Greater Than 10% Investment Grade $116.5 $3.0 $113.5 1 $22.4 Non Investment Grade 7.1 .6 6.5 No External Ratings 34.6 .7 33.9 Credit reserves $ 1.7 (a) Investment Grade primarily determined using publicly available credit ratings of the counterparty. If the counterparty has provided a guarantee by a higher rated entity (e.g., its parent), it is determined based upon the rating of its guarantor. Included in Investment Grade are counterparties with a minimum Standard & Poors or Moodys Investor Service rating of BBB or Baa3, respectively. (b) Exposure Before Credit Collateral includes the marked to market (MTM) energy contract net assets for open/unrealized transactions, the net receivable/payable for realized transactions and net open positions for contracts not subject to MTM. Amounts due from counterparties are offset by liabilities payable to those counterparties to the extent that legally enforceable netting arrangements are in place. Thus, this column presents the net credit exposure to counterparties after reflecting all allowable netting, but before considering collateral held. (c) Credit Collateral the face amount of cash deposits, letters of credit and performance bonds received from counterparties, not adjusted for probability of default, and, if applicable, property interests (including oil and gas reserves). (d) Using a percentage of the total exposure. Interest Rate Risk Pepco Holdings manages interest rates through the use of fixed and, to a lesser extent, variable rate debt. Pepco Holdings and its subsidiaries variable or floating rate debt is subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. The effect of a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates on the annual interest costs for short term and variable rate debt was approximately $4.5 million as of December 31, 2007. Potomac Electric Power Company Interest Rate Risk Pepcos debt is subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. Pepco manages interest rates through the use of fixed and, to a lesser extent, variable rate debt. The effect of a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates on the annual interest costs for short term debt and variable rate debt was approximately $.9 million as of December 31, 2007. Delmarva Power & Light Company Commodity Price Risk DPL uses derivative instruments (forward contracts, futures, swaps, and exchange traded and over the counter options) primarily to reduce gas commodity price volatility while limiting its firm customers exposure to increases in the market price of gas. DPL also manages commodity risk with capacity contracts that do not meet the definition of derivatives. The primary goal of these activities is to reduce the exposure of its regulated retail gas customers to natural gas price spikes. All premiums paid and other transaction costs incurred as part of DPLs 138 natural gas hedging activity, in addition to all gains and losses on the natural gas hedging activity, are fully recoverable through the gas cost rate clause included in DPLs gas tariff rates approved by the Delaware Public Service Commission and are deferred under SFAS No. 71 until recovered. At December 31, 2007, DPL had a net deferred derivative payable of $13.1 million, offset by a $13.1 million regulatory asset. At December 31, 2006, DPL had a net deferred derivative payable of $27.3 million, offset by a $28.5 million regulatory asset. Interest Rate Risk DPLs debt is subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. DPL manages interest rates through the use of fixed and, to a lesser extent, variable rate debt. The effect of a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates on the annual interest costs for short term debt and variable rate debt was approximately $.9 million as of December 31, 2007. Atlantic City Electric Company Interest Rate Risk ACEs debt is subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. ACE manages interest rates through the use of fixed and, to a lesser extent, variable rate debt. The effect of a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates on the annual interest costs for short term debt and variable rate debt was approximately $.5 million as of December 31, 2007. 139 
 
