FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20061215171157.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
  
Item 5.03
   
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
On December 13, 2006, the Board of Directors of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) amended Article VIII, Section 1 of the Companys Bylaws to allow for the issuance of uncertificated shares, as provided under the Delaware General Corporation Law. The Companys Bylaws had previously provided for issuance of the Companys shares in certificated form only. The amendment was adopted to permit implementation of a book-entry direct registration system, which allows shares of stock to be owned, reported, and transferred electronically without the need for physical stock certificates.
 
A copy of the amendment to Article VIII, Section 1 of the Companys Bylaws is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1.
 
 
Item 9.01
 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
   
(d)    Exhibit 3.1     Amendment to Article VIII, Section 1 of the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Bylaws
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
By:  
  /s/ Joanne L. Bober
            Joanne L. Bober
Executive Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary    
 
 
Date: December 15, 2006 
 
 
    
Exhibit Number
   
Description
3.1     Amendment to Article VIII, Section 1 of the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Bylaws
   
   
   

Exhibit 3.1
RESOLVED that Article VIII, Section 1 of the Company's Bylaws be, and it hereby is, deleted in its entirety, and the following substituted therefore:
 
 
"The shares of the Company may be represented by certificates or uncertificated, as provided under the Delaware General Corporation Law. Every holder of stock represented by certificates and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Company by, the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, a President, or a Vice President and the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, the certificate may, nevertheless, be issued by the Company with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue."
 


