FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20061207115708.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02       Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors;
Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(e)    As reported in the Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 21, 2006 (the March 21 8-K) of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company), the Companys Board of Directors has approved entering into individual Executive Termination Pay Agreements with each of the members of the Companys Executive Board other than the Companys Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The Executive Termination Pay Agreement, which is not an employment agreement, is intended to provide the executive with severance benefits in the event of involuntary termination of the executives employment without cause in exchange for his or her agreement to comply with certain covenants. An Executive Board member with an existing employment agreement is not eligible to enter into an Executive Termination Pay Agreement until his or her employment agreement is terminated or expires. A copy of the form of Executive Termination Pay Agreement was previously filed with the Commission as an exhibit to the March 21 8-K.
Robert B. Cavanaugh, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, had previously entered into an employment agreement with J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., the Companys principal operating subsidiary (Corporation), dated May 1, 2005. Effective December 1, 2006, Mr. Cavanaugh entered into an amendment to his existing employment agreement with Corporation, pursuant to which Mr. Cavanaugh and Corporation agreed to terminate his existing employment agreement and enter into an Executive Termination Pay Agreement, in the form offered to all members of the Companys Executive Board. Mr. Cavanaughs Executive Termination Pay Agreement is also dated December 1, 2006. These events have no effect upon Mr. Cavanaughs job duties, responsibilities or employment status.
A copy of the amendment to Mr. Cavanaughs former employment agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
  
Item 9.01
   
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)    Exhibit 10.1  Amendment to Terminate Employment Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2006, between
   
   J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. and 
Robert B. Cavanaugh
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
By:  
/s/ Joanne L. Bober
Joanne L. Bober
 
Date: December 7, 2006
 
 
    
Exhibit Number
   
Description
10.1     Amendment to Terminate Employment Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2006, between
   
   
 J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. and
Robert B. Cavanaugh
 
 

                Exhibit 10.1
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
This   (the ), made in the City of Plano and the State of Texas, dated as of December 1, 2006, between J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the Employer), and Robert B. Cavanaugh (hereinafter called the Employee).
AMENDMENT TO
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
Amendment
 
WHEREAS, the Employee and the Employer have previously entered into that certain Employment Agreement dated May 1, 2005 (hereinafter called the );
Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Employee and Employer have mutually agreed to terminate the employment agreement;
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and of the mutual covenants herein contained, Employer and Employee herby agree to amend the Agreement pursuant to Section 10.8 thereof, and they hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date and year first above written.
 
J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc.
By:  
/s/ Myron E. Ullman
Name: Myron E. Ullman
Title: Chairman & CEO
Employee
 
/s/ Robert B. Cavanaugh
Robert B. Cavanaugh


