FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20061109092601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (JCPenney) issued an earnings press release on November 9, 2006, announcing its third quarter 2006 results of operations and financial condition. This information is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: November 9, 2006
 
 
   Exhibit Number      Description
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 News Release issued November 9, 2006
   
   
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Third Quarter 2006 Highlights
 
PLANO, Texas, Nov. 9, 2006
-- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP) reported record third quarter earnings today. Operating profit increased 24.1 percent to $504 million from $406 million last year and improved 140 basis points to 10.5 percent of sales. Operating profit improvement was driven by strong sales performance, coupled with improved gross margin and leverage of selling, general and administrative expenses. Third quarter 2006 earnings per share from continuing operations increased 34 percent to $1.26 from $0.94 last year.
Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III, chairman and chief executive officer, said, "JCPenney's record third quarter performance reflects our continued success in executing our Long Range Plan initiatives. Our private and exclusive brands are growing in importance, clearly differentiating JCPenney in the eyes of the consumer.  With these offerings, coupled with our strong national brands, we are providing the styles our customers want.  We are also making it even easier for them to shop with us by expanding our market presence, with the acceleration of our new store growth program in the third quarter.
"As we enter the holiday season, we believe our customers will respond enthusiastically to our Red Box Gifts program, which includes a great selection of gifts for the special people in their lives. These gift items are part of the wide selection of compelling, fashion-right merchandise available at smart prices in our stores, online at jcp.com and in our catalogs.
 
 
 
During the third quarter, we introduced Sephora in five JCPenney stores and we announced our new, sensual lingerie brand Ambrielle, and the creation of two new lines with Liz Claiborne.  These new offerings will arrive in stores early next year, and they are examples of our ongoing focus on providing our customers with an exciting shopping experience.
 
 
Operating Results
Third quarter operating profit was $504 million, a 24.1 percent increase from last years $406 million. Total department store sales increased 7.0 percent and comparable department store sales increased 5.2 percent. Sales were well ahead of the Companys initial guidance and increased across all merchandise divisions and regions of the country. The strongest merchandise results were in childrens, mens and family shoes, and the best regional performances were in the southeast and the northeast. During the quarter, Direct sales increased 5.3 percent, and
www.jcp.com
sales increased approximately 27 percent.
Gross margin improved by 80 basis points to 42.6 percent of sales, reflecting continued benefits from private brand performance and ongoing improvement in flow and management of merchandise inventories. SG&A expenses improved 60 basis points to 32.3 percent of sales, reflecting leverage in salaries and the Direct business. SG&A expenses for the quarter include $14 million in pre-opening expenses related to the 25 new and relocated stores which opened in the third quarter.
Beginning in the third quarter, Real Estate and Other is being reported for all periods presented as a component of operating profit to better align our reporting with industry practice. In the third quarter, Real Estate and Other contributed income of $8 million principally related to ongoing real estate operations, compared to $5 million of income last year.
 
Financial Condition and Other Items
The Company continues to maintain a strong financial condition. As of Oct. 28, 2006, the Company had cash and short-term investments of $2 billion and long-term debt, including current maturities, of $3.5 billion. Merchandise inventories were well controlled at $4.3 billion, with planned increases associated with the opening of 25 new stores in the third quarter essentially offset by better merchandise flow. Cash flows from operating, investing and
 
 
financing activities for the first nine months were in line with expectations. The Company continues to be on plan for the full year, with capital expenditures projected at approximately $800 million.
During the quarter, the Company completed its existing $750 million common stock repurchase authorization with the repurchase of 3.3 million shares for a total of $220 million.
 
 
New FASB Pension Rules
The Financial Accounting Standards Board recently issued FAS 158 (Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Post Retirement Plans), which will be effective at year-end 2006. This standard requires recognition of the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans directly on the balance sheet.  Based on current estimates, the Company expects to record a decrease in stockholders' equity in the area of $250 million, net of tax, at year-end 2006, as a result of adopting this new rule.  Adoption of FAS 158 will have no impact on cash flows or earnings per share
.
Earnings Guidance
The following guidance reflects the Companys current expectations for the fourth quarter:
 
 
Conference Call/Webcast Details
Senior management will host a live conference call and real-time web cast today, Nov. 9, 2006, beginning at 9:30 a.m. ET. Access to the conference call is open to the press and general public in a listen only mode. To access the conference call, please dial 973-935-2035 and reference the JCPenney Quarterly Earnings Conference Call. The telephone playback will be available for two days beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call by dialing 973-341-3080, pin code 6939848. The live web cast may be accessed via JCPenneys Investor Relations page at
www.jcpenney.net
, or on
www.streetevents.com
(for members) and
www.earnings.com
(for media and individual investors). Replays of the webcast will be available for up to 90 days after the event.
 
 
For further information, contact:
Investor Relations
Bob Johnson; (972) 431-2217;
rvjohnso
@jcpenn
ey.com
Ed Merritt; (972) 431-8167;
emerritt@jcpenney.com
 
 
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart or Quinton Crenshaw; (972) 431-3400;
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
 
 
About JCPenney
J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., the wholly owned operating subsidiary of J. C. Penney Company, Inc., is one of Americas largest department store, catalog, and e-commerce retailers, employing approximately 151,000 associates. As of Oct. 28, 2006, J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. operated 1,0
37
JCPenney department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico. JCPenney is the nations largest catalog merchant of general merchandise, and jcp.com is one of the largest apparel and home furnishings sites on the Internet. JCPenney refers to the Internet/catalog business as Direct.
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Companys current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Companys actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, competition, consumer demand, seasonality, economic conditions, including the price and availability of oil and natural gas, changes in interest rates, changes in management, retail industry consolidations, government activity, and acts of terrorism or war. Please refer to the Companys most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date. In addition, non-GAAP terms referenced are defined and presented in the Companys most recent annual report on Form 10-K.
 
 
 
 
   


