FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20070816090339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (972) 431-1000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. issued an earnings press release on August 16, 2007, announcing its second quarter results of operations and financial condition. This information is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
   
   
   
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. News Release issued August 16, 2007
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
 
 
 By: /s/
Robert B. Cavanaugh
Date: August 16, 2007
Exhibit Number
      
   
   
   
   
   
Description
99.1
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
J. C. Penney Company, Inc.
News Release issued August 16, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Second Quarter Highlights
PLANO, Texas, Aug. 16, 2007
- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE:JCP) reported earnings per share from continuing operations for the second quarter ended Aug. 4, 2007, rose to $0.78 per share, compared to $0.75 per share in last years second quarter. Last years results included $26 million, or $0.11 per share, in one-time federal and state income tax credits. On a dollar basis, pre-tax income from continuing operations for the quarter increased 12.9 percent to $280 million. For the quarter, operating income improved 90 basis points to 7.5 percent of sales driven by improvement in gross margin and SG&A expense leverage. Net income for the quarter, including the effects of discontinued operations, was $0.81 per share compared with $0.76 per share in last years second quarter.
Our second quarter performance speaks to the strength of our strategies to make a deep connection with our customers and drive growth in our business, even in what has been a challenging retail environment, said Myron E. (Mike) Ullman III, chairman and chief executive officer of JCPenney. The Back-to-School selling season is off to a good start, reflecting the ongoing enthusiasm Americas families have for the great style and quality we offer at a smart price. We are also pleased by the positive response we have seen to our new private lingerie brand Ambrielle and our exclusive Liz & Co. and CONCEPTS by Claiborne lines. They all bring newness and excitement across our shopping channels, including our growing store base and industry-leading website, jcp.com.
As we look to the second half of the year, we are focused on continuing to differentiate JCPenney from the competition by inspiring our customers with our merchandise and improving our store base through additional new store openings and existing store renovations. In addition, we are making further progress in our cycle time and merchandise flow initiatives, to ensure we have what our customers want every time they shop with us. These are all key elements of bringing our Every Day Matters brand positioning to life, and our progress in achieving them so far this year gives us confidence that we are on track to achieve both our long-range financial targets and our goal of becoming the growth leader in our industry.
Operating Performance
Second quarter operating income was $329 million, a 17.5 percent increase from last years $280 million. Total Company sales increased 3.6 percent and comparable store sales increased 1.9 percent. The Company opened 15 new and relocated stores in the second quarter. The strongest merchandise results were in childrens and womens apparel, with the best performances in the northwestern and southwestern regions of the country. Internet sales through
www.jcp.com
increased 17.4 percent and followed a 24.5 percent increase last year. Total Direct sales, which include jcp.com, print and outlet stores, decreased 2.3 percent for the period as a result of declines in the print business.
Gross margin increased by 80 basis points to 38.1 percent of sales and reflected continued benefits from the Companys improved planning and allocation technology and processes, and early benefits from initiatives such as cycle time reduction and more effective merchandise flow. Gross margin for the quarter also benefited from the inclusion of the first week of August, an important and profitable week of the Back-to-School season, in the July reporting period. SG&A expenses were leveraged by 50 basis points to 28.3 percent of sales, primarily as a result of leverage of salary related costs and Direct operating expenses. Including the impacts of depreciation and amortization expense, pre-opening expenses and income from real estate operations, total operating expenses were 30.6 percent of sales in the quarter. Real Estate and Other contributed $13 million, a $4 million increase from last year.
Interest and Taxes
Interest expense for the quarter was $37 million, slightly higher than original expectations, compared to $32 million last year. In addition, the Company incurred $12 million of charges related to the early extinguishment of approximately $300 million of long-term debt in the quarter. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 37.5 percent and benefited from legislative changes that reduced state income tax liability by approximately $3 million.
Liquidity and Financial Condition
The Company continues to maintain a strong financial condition. As of Aug. 4, 2007, the Company had cash and short-term investments of $2.2 billion and $3.8 billion of long-term debt, including current maturities. During the quarter, the Company repurchased approximately 5.1 million shares of its common stock, completing its current $400 million common stock repurchase authorization.
Capital expenditures through the second quarter were $598 million, in line with expectations, with the majority of spending related to the construction of new stores and the renovation of existing stores.
Merchandise inventories were at expected levels of $3.6 billion, reflecting increases associated with 22 new stores opened to date this year, as well as initial inventories for the 28 planned openings in the third quarter. On a comparable store basis, inventories increased in line with sales.
Earnings Guidance
Full-year guidance:
 
Third quarter guidance:
 
Conference Call/Webcast Details
Senior management will host a live conference call and real-time webcast today, Aug. 16, 2007, beginning at 9:30 a.m. ET. Access to the conference call is open to the press and general public in a listen-only mode. To access the conference call, please dial 973-935-2035 and reference the JCPenney Quarterly Earnings Conference Call. The telephone playback will be available for two days beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call by dialing 973-341-3080, pin code 8337168. The live webcast may be accessed via JCPenneys Investor Relations page at
www.jcpenney.net
, or on
www.streetevents.com
(for members) and
www.earnings.com
(for media and individual investors). Replays of the webcast will be available for up to 90 days after the event.
 
For further information, contact:
Investor Relations
Bob Johnson; (972) 431-2217;
rvjohnso
@jcpenn
ey.com
Ed Merritt; (972) 431-8167;
emerritt@jcpenney.com
 
 
Media Relations
Darcie Brossart or Quinton Crenshaw; (972) 431-3400;
jcpcorpcomm@jcpenney.com
 
 
About JCPenney
JCPenney is one of America's leading retailers, operating 1,048 department stores throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as one of the largest apparel and home furnishing sites on the Internet, jcp.com, and the nation's largest general merchandise catalog business. Through these integrated channels, JCPenney offers a wide array of national, private and exclusive brands which reflect the Company's commitment to providing customers with style and quality at a smart price. Traded as "JCP" on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company posted revenue of $19.9 billion in 2006 and is executing its strategic plan to be the growth leader in the retail industry. Key to this strategy is JCPenney's "Every Day Matters" brand positioning, intended to generate deeper, more emotionally driven relationships with customers by fully engaging the Company's 155,000 Associates to offer encouragement, provide ideas and inspire customers every time they shop with JCPenney.
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including inflation, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, the cost of goods, trade restrictions, changes in tariff, freight, paper and postal rates, changes in the cost of fuel and other energy and transportation costs, competition and retail industry consolidations, interest rate fluctuations, risks associated with war, an act of terrorism or pandemic, and a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information. Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.
 
 


