FILE:JCP/JCP-8K-20070306172335.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(972) 431-1000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(b))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02
 
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
(e)
  
   
(1)
 
2006 Incentive Compensation Award, 2007 Base Salary, 2007 Target Incentive Opportunity, and 2007 Equity Award for CEO.
Pursuant to the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Management Incentive Compensation Program (Incentive Program), annual cash incentive compensation is awarded to eligible associates based upon the achievement of pre-set performance goals. For the Companys executive officers, incentive compensation payouts are measured (i) 50% based upon total Company sales and operating profit from continuing operations, and (ii) 50% based upon the executive officers individual performance. On February 28, 2007, the independent members of the Companys Board of Directors (Board) determined the Incentive Program payment amount for fiscal 2006 for Myron E. Ullman, III, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Company. Based upon an assessment to be discussed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of the Companys 2007 proxy statement, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and posted on the Companys website, the independent directors awarded Mr. Ullman a cash incentive payment of $2,673,750 for fiscal 2006.
On February 28, 2007, the independent members of the Board also set Mr. Ullmans 2007 base salary at $1,500,000 and approved his 2007 target incentive opportunity percentage under the Incentive Program, which was set at 125% of Mr. Ullmans base salary. The independent directors of the Board further determined that Mr. Ullmans 2007 equity award value should be set at $8,000,000 to be delivered half in the form of stock options and half as performance-based restricted stock units under the Companys 2005 Equity Compensation Plan. Mr. Ullmans equity award will be effective at the time of the Companys annual grant of equity awards, which will occur in March 2007.
Each of these determinations will be discussed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of the Companys 2007 proxy statement, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and posted on the Companys website.
 
(2) Management Incentive Compensation Program Amendments.
On February 28, 2007, the independent directors of the Board approved amendments to the Incentive Program which prevent termination of the Incentive Program and amendments to the Incentive Program that would reduce the compensation payable thereunder within one year prior to or two years after a change in control of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. or J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. A copy of the amended and restated Incentive Program is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Also, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board (HRCC) approved a change to the administration of the Incentive Program to provide that if (i) an associate is terminated for cause at any time on or before the payment date of incentive compensation under the Incentive Program, or (ii) an associate voluntarily terminates employment on or before the last day of the fiscal year, other than for retirement at or after age 60, retirement between ages 55 and 59 with at least 15 years of service, or due to permanent and total disability, such associate shall not be entitled to receive compensation under the Incentive Program for such year.
 
(3) Mirror Savings Plan Amendments.
On February 28, 2007, the HRCC amended the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan to clarify that the Company matching contribution is available to participants hired both before and after January 1, 2007, and to synchronize the accelerated vesting provisions applicable to the Company match, retirement, and discretionary contribution accounts for associates terminating employment at or after age 65, or due to disability, death, or a Company-approved reduction in force or unit closing. A copy of the amended and restated Mirror Savings Plan is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(4) Change in Control Plan Amendments.
On February 28, 2007, the Board approved certain amendments to the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Change in Control Plan (the Plan). The purpose of the amendments is to (i) clarify the definition of Employment Termination under the Plan; (ii) clarify that when employment termination occurs on the last day of the fiscal year the incentive compensation benefit payable under the Plan will be the greater of 100% of the target award under the Incentive Program or the actual Incentive Program payout earned; (iii) clarify that there will be no double counting of age and/or service credit when determining the retirement benefit due under the Plan because of a provision in an underlying retirement plan that also provides for age and/or service credit; and (iv) modify the additional years of age and service credit provided under the Plan to make them consistent with similar provisions under the Companys retiree medical, dental, discount and life insurance plans. A copy of the amended and restated Plan is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.3 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 5.03
 
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal
Year
On February 28, 2007, the Board amended Article II, Section 8 of the Company's Bylaws with respect to the manner in which directors of the Company are to be elected. A copy of the Company's Bylaws, as amended, is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 8.01
 
Other Events
On February 28, 2007, the Board approved revised Corporate Governance Guidelines, which, among other things, (i) include a new policy on review and consideration of related person transactions, and (ii) clarify the Boards policy regarding recovery of compensation from a participant in the Companys compensation plans or programs in the event of a financial restatement arising out of the willful actions or gross negligence of such participant. Also, on February 28, 2007, the HRCC adopted stock ownership goals for members of the Companys Executive Board, which are intended to further align the interests of the Companys senior management with the interests of the Companys stockholders. Under these ownership goals, members of the Companys senior management team are expected to own a number of shares valued at a specified multiple of the executives annual base salary, ranging from one times base salary for Senior Vice Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents to five times base salary for the CEO. The stock ownership goals are set forth in the Corporate Governance Guidelines. A copy of the revised Corporate Governance Guidelines is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit 3.1 
   
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Bylaws, as amended as of February 28, 2007
Exhibit 10.1 
   
Amended and Restated J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Management Incentive Compensation
   Program
   
   
   
Exhibit 10.2 
   
Amended and Restated J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan
Exhibit 10.3 
   
Amended and Restated J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Change in Control Plan
Exhibit 99.1 
   
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
J. C. PENNEY COMPANY, INC.
By:
/s/ Michael T. Theilmann
Michael T. Theilmann
  
Executive Vice President,
Chief Human Resources and
Administration Officer
 
 
Date: March 6, 2007
 
 
Exhibit 3.1    
   
   
   
   
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Bylaws, as amended as of 
February 28, 2007
Exhibit 10.1    
   
   
   
   
Amended and Restated J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Management Incentive
     Compensation Program
   
   
   
   
   
   
Exhibit 10.2
    
   
   
   
   
Amended and Restated J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan
Exhibit 10.3    
   
   
   
   
Amended and Restated J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Change in Control Plan
Exhibit 99.1    
   
   
   
   
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines

 
Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION 1.
 
Registered Office
. The registered office of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (hereinafter called the Company) in the State of Delaware shall be at 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of the registered agent in charge thereof is The Corporation Trust Company.
SECTION 2.
 
Other Offices
. The Company may also have an office or offices at such other place or places either within or without the State of Delaware as from time to time the Board of Directors may determine or the business of the Company may require.
2
SECTION 1.
 
Annual Meetings
. The annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may come before the meeting shall be held at such place and time as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors and specified in the notice of the meeting, on the third Tuesday in May in each year, or on such other day as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors and specified in the notice of the meeting. If the election of directors shall not be held on the day designated herein or the day fixed by the Board, as the case may be, for any annual meeting, or on the day of any adjourned session thereof, the Board of Directors shall cause the election to be held at a special meeting as soon thereafter as convenient. At such special meeting, the stockholders may elect the directors and transact other business with the same force and effect as at an annual meeting duly called and held.
SECTION 2.
 
Special Meetings
. Any action required or permitted to be taken by the holders of the Common Stock of the Company must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such holders. A special meeting of stockholders for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by the laws of the State of Delaware or by the certificate of incorporation, may be called at any time only by the Board of Directors pursuant
3
to a resolution approved by a majority of the Board of Directors. Special meetings of stockholders may be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as shall be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 3.
 
Notice of Meetings
. Except as otherwise required by the laws of the State of Delaware or the certificate of incorporation, notice of each annual or special meeting of stockholders shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the day on which the meeting is to be held to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting by delivering a written notice thereof to him or her personally, or by depositing a copy of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to him or her at his or her address as it appears on the records of the Company, or by transmitting the notice thereof to him or her at such address by telegram, cable, radiogram, telephone facsimile, or other appropriate written communication. Except when expressly required by the laws of the State of Delaware, no publication of any notice of a meeting of stockholders shall be required. Every such notice shall state the place, date, and time of the meeting, and in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes thereof. Notice of any adjourned session of a meeting of stockholders shall not be required to be given if the place, date, and time thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. If, however, the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment
 
4
a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
SECTION 4.
 
List of Stockholders
. It shall be the duty of the officer who shall have charge of the stock ledger of the Company to prepare and make, at least 10 days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected, for any purpose germane to the meeting, by any stockholder who is present. The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine such list or to vote in person or by proxy at the meeting.
5
 SECTION 5.
   
 
Quorum
. At each meeting of stockholders, the holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of stock of the Company entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of a quorum at any meeting, or any adjourned session thereof, the stockholders of the Company present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote, by majority vote, or in the absence of all the stockholders, any officer entitled to preside or act as secretary at the meeting, may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
SECTION 6.
Organization and Conduct of Meeting
. At each meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the Board or in his or her absence a Vice Chairman of the Board or in his or her absence a chairman chosen by the vote of a majority in interest of the stockholders present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote thereat, shall act as chairman. The Secretary or in his or her absence an Assistant Secretary or in the absence of the Secretary and all Assistant Secretaries a person whom the chairman of the meeting shall appoint shall act as secretary of the meeting and keep a record of the proceedings thereof. The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be
 
6
 
announced at the meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem necessary, appropriate, or convenient. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations, and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are necessary, appropriate, or convenient for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations, or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting, (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present, (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Company, their duly authorized and constituted proxies, or such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall determine, (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof, and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless, and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
7
 
 SECTION 7.
   
Notification of Stockholder Business
. At a meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before a meeting, business must be (i) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (iii) in the case of an annual meeting of stockholders, otherwise properly requested to be brought before the meeting by a stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting and otherwise a proper subject to be brought before such meeting. For business to be properly requested to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders, any stockholder who desires to bring any matter (other than the election of directors, which is provided for in Section 15 of Article III of these Bylaws) before such meeting and who is entitled to vote on such matter must give timely written notice of such stockholder's desire to bring such matter before the meeting, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Company not later than 90 days in advance of such meeting. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary in this regard shall set forth: (1) the name and address of the stockholder proposing such business, (2) a representation that such stockholder is a record owner of stock of the Company entitled to vote at the meeting and intends to appear in person at the meeting to present the described business, (3) a brief description of the
8
 
business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, and (4) any material interest of the stockholder in such business. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business may be conducted at a meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Article II of these Bylaws. The chairman of a meeting may, if the facts warrant, or if not in accordance with applicable law, determine and declare to the meeting that business proposed to be brought before a meeting was not a proper subject therefor or was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7, and if he should so determine, he may so declare to the meeting, and any such business not a proper subject matter or not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
SECTION 8.
Voting; Proxies; Ballots
. Except as otherwise provided in the laws of the State of Delaware or the certificate of incorporation, at every meeting of stockholders, each stockholder of the Company shall be entitled to one vote at the meeting in person or by proxy for each share of stock having voting rights registered in his or her name on the books of the Company on the date fixed pursuant to Section 3 of Article VII of these Bylaws as the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting. Shares of its own stock belonging to the Company shall not be voted directly or indirectly (except for shares of stock held by the Company in a
 
9
 
fiduciary capacity). The vote of any stockholder entitled thereto may be cast in person or by his or her proxy appointed by an instrument in writing, or by a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission, to the full extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware; provided, however, that no proxy shall be voted after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. At all meetings of stockholders, each question (except where other provision is made in the laws of the State of Delaware, in the certificate of incorporation, or in these Bylaws) shall be decided by the vote of the holders of shares of stock having a majority of the votes which could be cast by the holders of all shares of stock outstanding and entitled to vote thereon.
In any non-contested election of directors, any director nominee who receives a greater number of votes withheld from his or her election than votes for such election shall, promptly following the receipt of the final report from the independent inspectors of election, tender his or her resignation, and the Board of Directors (excluding the director who tenders his or her resignation pursuant to this Section 8) shall decide whether to accept or refuse the resignation promptly. Absent a compelling reason as determined by the other directors in the exercise of their business judgement for the director to remain on the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors shall accept the resignation. In a contested election, directors
shall be elected by a plurality of
10
 
the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the stockholder meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors and shall not be required to tender any such resignation
.
All elections of directors and all votes on matters set forth in the notice of meeting shall be by written ballot stating the number of shares voted, but except as otherwise provided in the laws of the State of Delaware, the vote on any other matter need not be by ballot unless directed by the chairman of the meeting. On a vote by ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by his or her proxy, if there be such proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted.
SECTION 9.
Inspectors of Election
. The Company shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors of election, who may be employees of the Company, to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof and to make a written report thereof. The Company may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. In the event that no inspector so appointed or designated is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability.
 
 
11
The inspector or inspectors so appointed or designated shall(i) ascertain the number of shares of stock of the Company outstanding and the voting power of each such share, (ii) determine the shares of stock of the Company represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares of stock of the Company represented at the meeting and such inspectors' count of all votes and ballots. Such certification and report shall specify such other information as may be required by law. In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots cast at any meeting of stockholders of the Company, the inspectors may consider such information as is permitted by applicable law. No person who is a candidate for an office at an election may serve as an inspector at such election.
SECTION 1.
 
General Powers
. The business, property, and affairs of the Company shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities expressly conferred upon the Board of Directors by the certificate of incorporation and these Bylaws, the Board of
 
12
 
Directors may exercise all such powers of the Company and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by the laws of the State of Delaware, the certificate of incorporation, or these Bylaws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
SECTION 2.
 
Eligibility and Retirement
. No person may serve as a director unless he or she is a stockholder of the Company. Notwithstanding the expiration of a director's term as set forth in Section 3 of this Article III, no person shall be qualified or may continue to serve as a director after attaining age 72.
SECTION 3.
 
Number and Classification of Directors
. Except as otherwise provided for or fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article Fourth of the certificate of incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors of the Company which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be such number, not less than three, as from time to time shall be fixed by the Board of Directors. Subject to the provisions of this Section 3 below, until the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, when the following classification shall cease, the directors, other than those who may be elected pursuant to the aforesaid provisions of said Article Fourth, shall be classified by the Board of Directors, with respect to the duration of the term for which they
13
 
severally hold office, into three classes as nearly equal in number as possible. Such classes shall originally consist of a first class of four directors who shall be elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 1985 for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 1986, and election and qualification of their respective successors; a second class of five directors who shall be elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 1985 for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 1987, and election and qualification of their respective successors; and a third class of five directors who shall be elected at the annual meeting of stockholders held in 1985 for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 1988, and election and qualification of their respective successors. At each annual meeting of stockholders, until the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, the successors of the class of directors whose term expires at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders held in the third year following the year of election of such directors and election and qualification of their respective successors. Subject to the provisions of this Section 3 below, until the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, when the classification of the Board of Directors shall cease, the Board of Directors shall increase or decrease the number of directors in one or more classes as may be appropriate whenever it increases or decreases the number of directors pursuant to this Section 3, in order to ensure that the three
14
 
classes shall be as nearly equal in number as possible. Directors elected at or after the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2007 shall hold office until the first annual meeting of stockholders following their election and until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified or until the directors prior death, resignation or removal.
SECTION 4.
 
Quorum and Manner of Acting
. A majority of the directors at the time in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting, which in no case shall be less than one third of the total number of directors. Except as otherwise provided in the laws of the State of Delaware, the certificate of incorporation, or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be required for the taking of any action by the Board of Directors. In the absence of a quorum at any meeting of the Board, the meeting need not be held, or a majority of the directors present thereat or if no director be present, the Secretary, may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present. Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. Members of the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the
 
 
 
15
 
meeting can hear each other, and participation in the meeting by such means shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
SECTION 5.
 
Offices; Places of Meetings
. The Board of Directors may hold meetings and have an office or offices at such place or places within or without the State of Delaware as the Board may from time to time determine, and in the case of meetings, as shall be specified or fixed in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof, except where other provision is made in the laws of the State of Delaware, the certificate of incorporation, or these Bylaws.
SECTION 6.
 
Annual Meeting
. The Board of Directors shall meet for the purpose of organization, the election of officers, and the transaction of other business, at the time of each annual election of directors. Such meeting may be held prior to the stockholders' meeting, if deemed necessary and appropriate, and if so held, would be held subject to the election of directors at the upcoming stockholders' meeting; provided, however, that no individual not then a director may act as a director prior to his or her election at the upcoming stockholders' meeting. Such meeting shall be called and held at the place and time specified in the notice or waiver and held at the place and time specified in the notice or waiver of notice thereof as in the case of a special meeting of the Board of Directors.
SECTION 7.
 
Regular Meetings
. Regular meetings of the Board
 
 
16
 
of Directors shall be held as the Board of Directors shalldetermine, at such times and places as shall from time to time be determined by the Board, except that in May, the regular meeting shall be held immediately following the adjournment of the annual meeting of the Board. Notice of regular meetings need not be given.
SECTION 8.
 
Special Meetings; Notice
. Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or by any two of the directors. Notice of each such meeting shall be mailed to each director, addressed to such director at his or her residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to such director at his or her residence or such place of business by telegram, cable, radiogram, telephone facsimile, or other appropriate written communication, or delivered personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held. Each such notice shall state the time and place of the meeting but need not state the purposes thereof except as otherwise herein expressly provided.
SECTION 9.
 
Organization
. At each meeting of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or in his or her absence, a Vice Chairman of the Board or in his or her absence, a director chosen by a majority of the directors present, shall act as 
17
 
chairman. The Secretary or in his or her absence, an Assistant Secretary or in the absence of the Secretary and all Assistant Secretaries, a person whom the chairman of the meeting shall appoint, shall act as secretary of the meeting and keep a record of the proceedings thereof.
SECTION 10.
 
Order of Business
. At all meetings of the Board of Directors, business shall be transacted in the order determined by the Board.
SECTION 11.
 
Resignation
. Any director may resign at any time by giving written notice of his or her resignation to the Board of Directors or to the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, or the Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect at the date of receipt of the notice or at any later time specified therein; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
 
SECTION 12.
 
Removal of Directors
. Any director may be removed, either with or without cause, at any time, by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding shares of all classes and series of stock of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, at a special meeting of stockholders duly called and held for the purpose or at an annual meeting of stockholders.
 
18
 
 SECTION 13.caused by death, resignation, removal, disqualification, increase in the number of directors, or any other cause, shall be filled by a majority vote of the remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or by the stockholders at a special meeting duly called and held for the purpose or at an annual meeting, and each director so elected shall hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders following such directors election and until such directors successor shall have been elected and qualified, including in circumstances where such directors predecessor was elected to a longer term.
   
 
Vacancies
. Any vacancy in the Board of Directors
SECTION 14.
 
Remuneration
. Directors and members of any committee may receive such fixed sum per meeting attended, or such annual sum or sums, and such reimbursement for expenses of attendance at meetings, as may be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Company in any other capacity and receiving proper compensation therefor.
SECTION 15.
 
Notification of Nominations
. Nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of directors. Any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of directors at a meeting may nominate persons for election as directors only if
19
 
written notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination is given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Company, not later than (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of stockholders, 90 days in advance of such meeting, and (ii) with respect to an election to be held at a special meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, the close of business on the seventh day following the date on which notice of such meeting is first given to stockholders. Each such notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination and of the person or persons to be nominated, (b) a representation that such stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Company entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice, (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by such stockholder, (d) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had each nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated by the Board of Directors, and (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Company if so elected. The chairman of the meeting may refuse to acknowledge the nomination 
20
 
of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedures.
 
SECTION 16.
  
 
Action of the Board of Directors by Consent
. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or such committee.
 
SECTION 1.
 
Executive Committee
. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate directors of the Company, in such number as the Board shall see fit, but not less than two, as an Executive Committee which shall have and may exercise, during intervals between meetings of the Board, the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Company, and may authorize the seal of the Company to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but the Executive Committee shall not have the power or authority in reference to filling vacancies in its membership, amending the certificate of incorporation (except that the Executive Committee (or any committee designated pursuant to Section 6 of this Article IV) may, to the full extent permitted by 
21
 
the laws of the State of Delaware, make determinations with respect to the issuance of stock of the Company), adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease, or exchange of all or substantially all the Company's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the Company or a revocation of a dissolution, amending these Bylaws, or declaring a dividend. The Executive Committee (or any committee designated pursuant to Section 6 of this Article IV) shall have the power or authority to authorize the issuance of stock of the Company. The Board of Directors shall designate one of the members of the Executive Committee to be the Chairman of the Committee. Each member of the Executive Committee shall continue to act as such only so long as he or she shall be a director of the Company and only during the pleasure of a majority of the whole Board of Directors.
SECTION 2.
  
 
Meetings
. Regular meetings of the Executive Committee, of which no notice shall be necessary, shall be held on such days and at such places, within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be fixed by resolution adopted by a majority of, and communicated to all, the members of the Executive Committee. Special meetings of the Committee may be called at the request of any member. Notice of each special meeting of the Committee shall be mailed to each member thereof, addressed to such member at his or her residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to such member at his or her residence or such
 
22
 
place of business by telegram, cable, radiogram, telephone facsimile, or other appropriate written communication, or delivered personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held. Each such notice shall state the time and place of the meeting but need not state the purposes thereof except as otherwise herein expressly provided. Subject to the provisions of this Article IV, the Executive Committee, by resolution of a majority of all its members, shall fix its own rules of procedure. The Executive Committee shall keep a record of its proceedings and report them to the Board of Directors at the next regular meeting thereof after such proceedings shall have been taken.
SECTION 3.
  
 
Quorum and Manner of Acting
. Not less than a majority of the members of the Executive Committee then in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at a meeting thereof at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Executive Committee. The directors comprising the Committee shall act only as a committee, and such directors, individually, shall have no power as such. Members of the Executive Committee, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in the meeting by such means shall constitute
 
23
 
presence in person at the meeting.
SECTION 4.
 
Vacancies
. The Board of Directors, by vote of a majority of the whole Board, shall have power to fill any vacancy in the Executive Committee due to death, resignation, removal, disqualification, or any other cause.
SECTION 5.
 
Resignation
. Any director may resign from the Executive Committee at any time by giving written notice of his or her resignation to the Board of Directors or to the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman of the Board, or the Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect at the date of receipt of the notice or at any later time specified therein; and unless otherwise specified therein,
the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
SECTION 6.
 
Other Committees
. The Board of Directors may, by resolution or resolutions passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more other committees, each such committee to consist of one or more directors of the Company, which shall have and may exercise such powers and authority (subject to the limitations specified in Section 1 of this Article IV) as the Board of Directors may determine and specify in such resolution or resolutions, such committee or committees to have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. A majority of all the members of any such committee
24
 
may fix its rules of procedure, determine its actions, and fix the time and place (whether within or without the State of Delaware) of its meetings and specify what notice thereof, if any, shall be given, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise by resolution provide. The Board of Directors shall have the power, either with or without cause, at any time, to change the members of any such committee, to fill vacancies, and to discharge any such committee.
SECTION 1.
 
Principal Officers
. The principal offices of the Company may be a Chairman of the Board and one or more Vice Chairmen of the Board, each of whom shall be members of the Board of Directors, and members of the Companys Corporate Staff,
or successor committee then in place (the number and titles thereof to be determined by the Board of Directors). In addition, there may be such other officers, agents, and employees of the Company as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of this Article V. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
SECTION 2.
 
Election and Term of Office
. The officers of the Company, except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of this Article V, shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors. Each officer, except such officers as may be appointed in accordance with the
25
provisions of Section 3 of this Article V, shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier death, resignation, removal, or disqualification.
SECTION 3.
 
Appointed Officers
. In addition to the principal officers enumerated in Section 1 of this Article V, the Company may have such other officers, agents, and employees as the Board of Directors may deem necessary, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority, and perform such duties as the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or a Vice Chairman of the Board may from time to time determine. The Board of Directors may delegate to any principal officer the
power to appoint or remove any such other officers, agents, or employees.
SECTION 4.
 
Removal
. Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors at a special meeting called for the purpose or except in case of any officer elected by the Board of Directors, by any officer upon whom the power of removal may be conferred by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 5.
 
Resignation
. Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice of his or her resignation to the Board of Directors or to the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the
26
 
Board, or the Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect at the date of receipt of the notice or at any later time specified therein; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
SECTION 6.
 
Vacancies
. A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification, or any other cause shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term in the manner prescribed in these Bylaws for regular election or appointment to such office.
 
 SECTION 7.
 
 
Chairman of the Board
. The Chairman of the Board may be the chief executive officer of the Company. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders at which he or she is present. The Chairman of the Board shall have the general supervision of the affairs of the Company, and perform all such duties as are incident to the office or as are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall have authority to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name and on behalf of the Company, when authorized by the Board of Directors, except in cases where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws to some other officer, agent, or employee of the Company.
 
27
SECTION 8.
 
Vice Chairmen of the Board
. The Board of Directors may establish the office of Vice Chairman of the Board. In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chairman of the Board. A Vice Chairman of the Board shall have authority to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name and on behalf of the Company, when authorized by the Board of Directors, except in cases where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws to some other officer, agent, or employee of the Company. In addition, a Vice Chairman
of the Board shall have such further powers and perform such further duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board or as may be prescribed by these Bylaws.
SECTION 9.
 
Presidents.
The Board of Directors may establish the office of President of a division, region, or other unit, function, or activity of the Company. A President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or a Vice Chairman of the Board.
SECTION 10.
 
Vice Presidents
. The Board of Directors may establish several classifications of Vice Presidents, such as Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, Regional Vice
28
 
Presidents, and Divisional Vice Presidents. Each Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as shall, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or a Vice Chairman of the Board.
SECTION 11.
 
The Treasurer
. The Treasurer shall have charge and custody of, and be responsible for, all funds and securities of the Company, and shall deposit or cause to be deposited all such funds in the name of the Company in such banks, trust companies, and other depositories as shall be selected in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws; shall render to 
the Board of Directors, whenever the Board may require him or her so to do, a report of all his or her transactions as Treasurer; and in general, shall perform all duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or a Vice Chairman of the Board.
SECTION 12.
 
The Secretary
. The Secretary shall record or cause to be recorded in books kept for the purpose the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders, the Board of Directors, and all committees, if any; shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws and as required by law; shall be custodian of the seal of the Company; and in general, shall perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of
 
 
29
the Board, or a Vice Chairman of the Board.
 
   
SECTION 13.
  
 
The Controller
. The Controller shall have charge of the books and records of account of the Company; shall keep or cause to be kept, and shall be responsible for the keeping of, correct and adequate records of the assets, liabilities, business, and transactions of the Company; shall at all reasonable times exhibit his or her books and records of account to any director of the Company upon application at the office of the Company where such books and records are kept; shall be responsible for the preparation and filing of all reports and returns relating to or based upon the books and records of the Company kept by him or her
or under his or her direction; and in general, shall perform all duties incident to the office of Controller and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or a Vice Chairman of the Board.
 
SECTION 1.
 
Execution of Contracts
. The Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, may authorize any officer or officers or other person or persons to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name and on behalf of the Company, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances, and unless so authorized by the Board of Directors or by the provisions of these Bylaws, no
30
officer or other person shall have any power or authority to bind the Company by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable peculiarly for any purpose or to any amount.
SECTION 2.
 
Loans
. No loan shall be contracted on behalf of the Company, and no negotiable papers shall be issued in its name, except by such officer or officers or other person or persons as may be designated by the Board of Directors from time to time. If and to the extent authorized by the Board of Directors, the power to contract loans or issue negotiable papers may be delegated by
any such officer or officers or other person or persons.
 
SECTION 3.
 
Checks, Drafts, etc.
All checks, drafts, bills of exchange, and other orders for the payment of money, letters of credit, acceptances, obligations, notes, and other evidences of indebtedness, bills of lading, warehouse receipts, and insurance certificates of the Company shall be signed or endorsed by such officer or officers or other person or persons as may be designated by the Board of Directors from time to time. If and to the extent authorized by the Board of Directors, the power to sign or endorse any such instrument may be delegated by any such officer or officers or other person or persons.
SECTION 4.
 
Bank Accounts
. The Board of Directors may from time to time authorize the opening and maintenance of general and special bank and custodial accounts with such banks, trust
 
31
companies, and other depositories as it may select. Rules, regulations, and agreements applicable to such accounts may be made, and changed from time to time, by the Board of Directors, including, but without limitation, rules, regulations, and agreements with respect to the use of facsimile and printed signatures. Any of such powers of the Board of Directors with respect to bank and custodial accounts may be delegated by the Board of Directors to any officer or officers or other person or persons as may be designated by the Board of Directors, and if and to the extent authorized by the Board of Directors, any such power may be further delegated by any such officer or officers or other person or persons.
 
SECTION 1.
 
Location
. The books and records of the Company may be kept at such place or places within or without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors or the respective officers in charge thereof may from time to time determine. The stock record books shall be kept by such officer or agent as shall be designated by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 2.
 
Addresses of Stockholders
. Notices of meetings and all other corporate notices may be delivered personally or mailed to each stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the records of the Company.
 
 
 
 
32
SECTION 3.
 
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record
. In order that the Company may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other change, conversion, or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
SECTION 1.
 
Certificates of Stock
.
The shares of the Company may be represented by certificates or uncertificated, as provided under the Delaware General Corporation Law. Every holder of stock represented by certificates and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Company by, the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, a President, or a Vice President and the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the
 
 
 
33
Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, the certificate may, nevertheless, be issued by the Company with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
SECTION 2.
 
Record, etc.
A record shall be kept of the name of the person, firm, or corporation owning the stock represented by each certificate of stock of the Company issued, the number of shares represented by each such certificate, and the date thereof, and in the case of cancellation, the date of cancellation. The person in whose name shares of stock stand on the books of the Company shall be deemed the owner of record thereof for all purposes as regards the Company.
SECTION 3.
 
Transfer of Stock
. Transfers of shares of the stock of the Company shall be made only on the books of the Company by the owner of record thereof, or by his or her attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with such officer or agent as shall be designated by the Board of Directors or with the transfer agent of the Company, and on the surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares
 
 
 
34
 
properly endorsed and the payment of all taxes thereon.
The Board of Directors may, from time to time, determine whether any, and if any, what part, of the net profits of the Company or of its surplus, available therefor pursuant to law and to the certificate of incorporation, shall be declared as dividends on the stock of the Company. The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, set apart out of any of such net profits or surplus a reserve or reserves for any proper purpose and may abolish any such reserve.
 
The Company may indemnify, in accordance with and to the full extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware as in effect at the time of the adoption of this Article X or as such laws may be amended from time to time, and shall so indemnify to the full extent required by such laws, any person (and the heirs and legal representatives of such person) made or threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director, officer, employee, or agent of the Company or any constituent corporation absorbed in a consolidation or merger, or serves or served as such with another corporation, partnership,
 
 
35
joint venture, trust, or other enterprise at the request of the Company or any such constituent corporation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article X or the laws of the State of Delaware to the contrary, no such person shall be entitled to indemnification or the advancement of expenses pursuant to this Article X with respect to any action, suit, or proceeding, or part thereof, brought or made by such person against the Company, unless such indemnification or advancement of expenses (i) is due to such person pursuant to the specific provisions of any agreement in writing between such person and the Company approved by the Company's Board of Directors or (ii) has been approved in writing in advance of the commencement of such action, suit, or proceeding, or part thereof, by or at the direction of the Company's Board of Directors. Any indemnification or advancement of expenses pursuant to this Article X shall only be made in the specific case by a separate determination made (i) by a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to such action, suit, or proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or (ii) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (iii) by the Company's stockholders, as to entitlement to advancement of expenses and/or indemnification, as the case may be.
 
 
36
Any transaction, questioned in any stockholders' derivative suit on the ground of lack of authority, defective or irregular execution, adverse interest of director, officer, or stockholder, non-disclosure, miscomputation, or the application of improper principles or practices of accounting, may be ratified, before or after judgment, by the Board of Directors or by the stockholders in case less than a quorum of directors are qualified, and if so ratified, shall have the same force and effect as if the questioned transaction had been originally duly authorized. Such ratification shall be binding upon the Company and its stockholders and shall constitute a bar to any claim or execution of any judgment in respect of such questioned transaction.
 
The Board of Directors shall provide a corporate seal, which shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the name of the Company and the words and figures "Corporate Seal 1924 Delaware".
 
The fiscal year of the Company shall end at the close of business on the Saturday closest to January 31 and shall, in each case, begin at the opening of business on the day next succeeding
 
 
37
the last day of the preceding fiscal year.
 
Whenever notice is required to be given under any provision of these Bylaws, the certificate of incorporation, or the laws of the State of Delaware, a written waiver thereof, whether in the form of a writing signed by, or a telegram, cable, radiogram, telephone facsimile, or other appropriate written communication from, the person entitled to notice and whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of the meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any meeting of the stockholders or directors or a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice.
 
SECTION 1.
 
General
. Notwithstanding any other provisions of the certificate of incorporation and these Bylaws, the emergency bylaws (hereinafter called Emergency Bylaws) provided in this Article XV shall be operative during any emergency resulting from an attack on the United States or on any locality in which the
 
 
 
38
 
Company conducts its business or customarily holds meetings of its Board of Directors or its stockholders, or during any nuclear or atomic disaster, or during the existence of any catastrophe, or other similar emergency condition (any such condition being hereinafter called an Emergency), as a result of which a quorum of the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee cannot readily be convened for action. To the extent not inconsistent with these Emergency Bylaws, the Bylaws of the Company shall remain in effect during any Emergency. Upon termination of the Emergency, these Emergency Bylaws shall cease to be operative unless and until another Emergency shall occur.
SECTION 2.
 
Meetings and Notice of Meetings
. During any Emergency any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the Executive Committee may be called by any director or officer of the Company. Notice of the meeting shall be given by the person calling the meeting, shall state the time and place of the meeting, and shall be required to be given only to such of the directors or members of the Executive Committee, as the case may be, and the persons referred to in Section 3 of this Article XV as it may be feasible to reach at the time and by any means as may then be feasible at the time.
SECTION 3.
 
Quorum, Emergency Directors, and Manner of Acting
. The directors and members of the Executive Committee, as the case may be, in attendance at a meeting pursuant to Section 2 of this Article XV, which in no case shall be less than two, shall
 
 
 
39
 
constitute a quorum of the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee, as the case may be, and they may take any action at the meeting, by majority vote, as they shall, in their sole discretion, deem to be in the best interests of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the number of directors or members of the Executive Committee, as the case may be, available to constitute a quorum at any such meeting, shall be less than two, additional directors, or additional members of the Executive Committee, as the case may be, in whatever number shall be necessary to constitute a Board or Executive Committee, as the case may be, of at least two members, shall be deemed selected automatically from the officers or other persons designated on a list approved by the Board of Directors before the Emergency, all in such order of priority and subject to such conditions and for such period or periods as may be provided in the resolution approving the list. The Board of Directors or Executive Committee, as the case may be, as so constituted shall continue until the termination of the Emergency. The Board of Directors, either before or during any Emergency, may provide, and from time to time modify, lines of succession in the event that during such Emergency any or all officers of the Company shall for any reason be rendered incapable of discharging their duties. Any additional director or additional member of the Executive Committee, as the case may be, may be removed, either with or without cause, by a majority vote of the remaining directors or members of the Executive Committee, as the case may be, then in office.
 
 
 
40
SECTION 4.
 
Offices; Places of Meeting
. The Board of Directors, either before or during any Emergency, may, effective during the Emergency, change the head office of the Company or designate several alternative head offices or regional offices of the Company or authorize the officers to do so.
SECTION 5.
 
Liability during an Emergency
. No officer, director, or employee shall be personally liable for acting in accordance with these Emergency Bylaws, except for willful misconduct.
 
 
Subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, all Bylaws of the Company shall be subject to alteration, amendment, or repeal, in whole or in part, and new bylaws not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Delaware or any provision of the certificate of incorporation may be made, either by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board, or by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of a majority of the issued and outstanding stock of the Company entitled to vote in respect thereof, given at an annual meeting or at any special meeting at which a quorum shall be present, provided that in each case notice of the proposed alteration, amendment, or repeal or
  
 
 
 
41
 
the proposed new bylaws be included in the notice of the meeting of the Board or the stockholders, or the form of consent thereof, as the case may be.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
   The purpose of this Management Incentive Compensation Program ("Program") is to continue in effect a fundamental policy which has been an important factor in the growth and success of J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., and its divisions and subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company"). That policy is to base a substantial part of the compensation of management employees ("associates") of the Company holding positions of responsibility upon the operating results of the Company which such associates help to create. Those associates will be paid reasonable fixed salaries, but because their aggregate yearly remuneration may be affected substantially by variations in the operating results of the Company, they will have a direct incentive to put forth their best efforts for the development and growth of the Company. Parent Company means J.C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation.
1.
Purpose of Program.
  The Program shall consist of separate incentive compensation plans ("plan" or "plans") for the following groups of management associates: JCPenney Stores, Merchandising, JCPenney Direct, Logistics, and Home Office support areas. The Board of Directors of the Company ("Board of Directors" or Board") or its delegate may from time to time authorize additional plans to be included in the Program or the consolidation of plans that are in the Program.
2.
Structure of Program.
 
The Program and all plans shall be administered by, or under the direction of, a committee ("Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Parent Company consisting of not less than three Board members who are not, and who have not within the year prior to such service on the Committee been, eligible to participate in any plan or the Program. The Committee shall have plenary authority to interpret the Program and the plans and to make all determinations specified in or permitted by the Program and the plans or deemed necessary or desirable for their administration or for the conduct of the Committee's business; all interpretations and determinations of the Committee may be made on an individual or group basis, and shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all interested parties; and the Committee may delegate its responsibilities under the Program and the plans to persons other than its members, subject to such terms and conditions as it shall determine.
  Participants in a plan for any fiscal year shall be designated by the Committee. Such designation may be made and, may from time to time be changed, on an individual basis or by groups, according to job eligibility, salary, or any other method of classification deemed appropriate by the Committee, but only management associates (including those who are also directors, but excluding those who serve as directors only of the Parent Company) may be so designated by the Committee.
3.
Participants in Plans.
 The basis on which each participant shall participate in a plan shall be determined by the Committee, and any bases so determined may be changed from time to time by such Committee.
4.
Determination of Bases of Participation of Participants.
 
The Committee may determine the basis on which each participant shall participate in a plan, on an individual basis or by groups, according to job eligibility, salary, or any other method of classification deemed appropriate by the Committee. The Committee may specify that such determination will continue in effect until changed by it, in which event the Committee shall not be required to make a new determination for each fiscal year.
The Board of Directors of the Parent Company shall determine the basis on which participants who are directors of the Parent Company shall participate in a plan, and from time to time may change such determination. The Board may specify that such determination shall continue in effect until changed by it, in which event the Board shall not be required to make a new determination for each fiscal year. Such initial determination and any such change shall be made only after recommendations of the Committee are considered.
  There are no limits on the total amount of incentive compensation payable with respect to the Program for any fiscal year.
5.
Limit on Incentive Compensation.
 The method for determining incentive compensation payable with respect to any plan and the Program for any fiscal year shall be prescribed by the Committee, and may be changed from time to time.
6.
Determination and Payments of Incentive Compensation.
 
 
The amount of incentive compensation payable under the plans shall be computed in accordance with the determinations of the Committee, and shall be paid on the basis of such computation. The Committee shall adopt such rules and procedures as it shall deem necessary or desirable in order that the amounts paid under the Program be verified, and such verification be submitted to the Board of Directors of the Parent Company for its approval. Such verified amounts, when approved by the Board shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all interested parties, including the Company and the plan participants.
The Board of Directors of the Parent Company or the Committee may permit a participant to defer receipt of all or part of any payment under a plan, or the Board or the Committee may determine to defer receipt, by all or some participants, of all or part of any such payment. Any such deferral shall be for such period and in accordance with such terms, provisions, and conditions as the Board or the Committee shall determine.
  Except as provided below, the Board of Directors of the Parent Company shall have the power to construe, interpret, administer, amend, modify, suspend and terminate the Program or any plan established under the Program.
7.
Termination and Amendment of Plans and Program.
 
 The Program or any plan established under the Program may be amended at any time, provided however, any modification, suspension, amendment or termination within one year before or two years after a Change in Control may not be made if it would have
   
 
 
an adverse effect on the Participants eligibility, benefits and/or rights under the Program or any plan established under the Program, except as may be otherwise required to comply with changes in applicable laws or regulations.
For the purposes of this section the following definitions apply.
 
means the Board of Directors of J.C. Penney Company, Inc.
Board
 
means the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control
 
 
(1)  for purposes of this Section (i)(1), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any acquisition of Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation directly from the Company or Corporation that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors, (B) any acquisition of Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation by the Company or any Subsidiary, (C) any acquisition of Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation by the trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary, and (D) any acquisition of Voting
 
 
 
Stock of the Company or Corporation by any Person pursuant to a Business Transaction that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section (iii) below;
 
(2)  if any Person becomes the beneficial owner of 20% or more of combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation as a result of a transaction described in clause (A) of Section (i)(1) above and such Person thereafter becomes the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation representing 1% or more of the then-outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation, other than in an acquisition directly from the Company or Corporation that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors or other than as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or similar transaction effected by the Company or Corporation in which all holders of Voting Stock are treated equally, such subsequent acquisition shall be treated as a Change in Control;
 
(3)  a Change in Control will not be deemed to have occurred if a Person becomes the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation as a result of a reduction in the number of shares of Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation outstanding pursuant to a transaction or series of transactions that is approved by a majority of the Incumbent Directors unless and until such Person thereafter becomes the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation representing 1% or more of the then-outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation, other than as a result of a stock dividend, stock split or similar transaction effected by the Company or Corporation in which all holders of Voting Stock are treated equally; and
 
 
(4)  if at least a majority of the Incumbent Directors determine in good faith that a Person has acquired beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation inadvertently, and such Person divests as promptly as practicable but no later than the date, if any, set by the Incumbent Directors a sufficient number of shares so that such Person beneficially owns less than 20% of the Voting Stock of the Company or Corporation, then no Change in Control shall have occurred as a result of such Persons acquisition; or
 
 
 
 
 
sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary or such entity resulting from such Business Transaction) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock of the entity resulting from such Business Transaction, and (C) at least a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the entity resulting from such Business Transaction were Incumbent Directors at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for such Business Transaction; or
 
shall mean J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor company.
Company
shall mean J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor company.
Corporation
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Reference to any section or subsection of the Exchange Act includes reference to any comparable or succeeding provisions of any legislation that amends, supplements or replaces such section or subsection.
Exchange Act
means the individuals who, as of the Effective Date hereof, are Directors of the Company or the Corporation, as the context requires, and any individual
Incumbent Directors
 
 
 
 
becoming a Director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, nomination for election by the Companys or Corporations stockholders, or appointment, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the then Incumbent Directors (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination); , , that an individual shall not be an Incumbent Director if such individuals election or appointment to the Board occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (as described in Rule 14a-12(c) of the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of Directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board.
provided
however
 
shall mean any entity in which the Company, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns 50% or more of the Voting Stock.
Subsidiary
means securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
Voting Stock
 
The effective date of the Program shall be February 28, 2007.
8.
Effective Date.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
The J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plans I and II (Plans) were adopted effective January 1, 1999 as part of a program to redesign the Company's qualified and non-qualified savings plans to optimize the retirement savings opportunities for Associates.
The Plans are maintained by the Company on an unfunded basis primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation to a select group of management or highly compensated employees.
Effective December 31, 2006, the J.C. Penney Corporation Inc. Mirror Savings Plan I was closed to new deferrals and new participants. Effective on January 1, 2007, the J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. amends and restates Mirror Savings Plan II and renames the plan the J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Mirror Savings Plan.
 
 
 
As used herein, the following words and phrases have the following respective meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
 
Active Participant
: A Participant who defers part of his or her Compensation for a Plan Year (or part thereof) pursuant to an election to defer.
Associate
: Any person who is classified as an associate and employed by an Employer if the relationship between the Employer and such person constitutes the legal relationship of employer and employee.
Beneficiary
: The person or persons designated by the Participant on a beneficiary form required by the Company for this purpose to receive benefits payable under the Plan because of the Participant's death.
Code
: The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Company
: On and after January 27, 2002, J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., a Delaware corporation. The term Company will also include any successor employer, if the successor employer expressly agrees in writing as of the effective date of succession to continue the Plan.
Company Account
: A phantom account established in accordance with Article Three to which Mirror Company Matching, Mirror Retirement Account and Mirror Discretionary contributions plus earnings are credited.
Compensation
: The total cash remuneration payable to an Associate for a Plan Year by his or her Employer, that qualifies as wages as the term wages is defined in Code section 3401 (a), determined without regard to any reduction for workers' compensation and state disability insurance reimbursements, and all other compensation payments for which his or her Employer is required to furnish the Associate a written statement under Code sections 6041(d), 6051(a)(3) and 6052, reduced by any extraordinary items of special pay.
In addition, Compensation includes any contributions made by the Associate's Employer on behalf of the Associate pursuant to a deferral election under any employee benefit plan containing a cash or deferred arrangement under Section 401(k) of the Code, and any amounts that would have been received as cash but for an election to receive benefits under a cafeteria plan meeting the requirements of Section 125 of the Code.
 
 
 Compensation also includes eligible cash incentive payments in the year paid to the Associate, and amounts deferred by the Active Participant pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Plan.
   
Compensation for a Plan Year shall be determined without regard to the limitations on annual compensation under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code and without regard to deferrals to this Plan.
An Associate who is in the service of the armed forces of the United States during any period in which his or her reemployment rights are guaranteed by law will be considered to have received the same rate of Compensation during his or her absence that he or she was receiving immediately prior to his or her absence, provided he or she returns to employment with an Employer within the time such rights are guaranteed.
Eligible Associate
: An Associate who has satisfied the eligibility requirements of the Plan for a Plan Year in accordance with Section 2.02.
Employer
: The Company and any subsidiary company or affiliate of the Company that is a Participating Employer as defined in Article I of the Savings Plan.
ERISA
: The Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
: The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Human Resources and Compensation Committee
: The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Parent Company.
Human Resources Committee
: The Human Resources Committee of the Company.
Mirror Company Matching Contributions
: The phantom amounts deemed to be contributed by the Company for each Plan Year as determined under Section 3.04.
Mirror Discretionary Contributions
: The phantom amounts deemed to be contributed by the Company for each Plan Year as determined under Section 3.06.
Mirror Investment Funds
: Phantom funds established as book reserve entries in the books and records of the Company to which a Participant's deferral amounts under the Plan are credited based on the investment elections of the
 
Participant. The investment returns of such funds shall be assumed to match the returns of the same investment funds available to participants under the Savings Plan.
 
 
Mirror Retirement Account Contributions:
The phantom amounts deemed to be contributed by the Company for each Plan Year as determined under Section 3.05.
Parent Company
: J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation.
Participant
: An Eligible Associate who participates in the Plan in accordance with Article Two, and who has not yet received a distribution of the entire amount of his or her vested benefits under the Plan.
Personal Account
: A phantom account established in accordance with Article Three to which a Participant's deferral amounts plus earnings are credited.
Plan
: The J.C. Penney Corporation Inc. Mirror Savings Plan, as amended from time to time.
Plan Year
: Each calendar year.
Savings Plan
: Prior to January 27, 2002, the J. C. Penney Company, Inc. Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan, as amended from time to time, and on and after January 27, 2002, the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan, as amended from time to time.
Separation from Service
: The termination of employment of an Eligible Associate or a Participant because of retirement, resignation, discharge, disability or death
.
An Eligible Associate or Participant who transfers from one Employer to another Employer without a break in employment shall not be deemed to have a Separation from Service.
Valuation Date
: With respect to all Mirror Investment Funds, each day of a calendar year on which the New York Stock Exchange is open.
With respect to transactions or distributions initiated by a Participant or Beneficiary, (a) the date of receipt by the plan administrator of the request if it is received prior to the close of the New York Stock Exchange, or (b) the next trading day if the request is received after the close of the New York Stock Exchange.
With respect to distributions not initiated by a Participant, the date the distribution is processed.
2.01
 
Eligibility Determined for Each Plan Year
The eligibility of each Associate to participate in the Plan as an Active Participant is determined for each Plan Year in accordance with Section 2.02 below. Eligibility for, or participation in, the Plan for a Plan Year does not give an Associate the right to defer part of his or her Compensation under the Plan for any other Plan Year.
2.02
 
Eligible Associate
An Associate shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as an Active Participant for a Plan Year if the Associate for the preceding Plan Year had:
(a)
 
Satisfied the eligibility requirements to make deferrals to the Savings Plan; and
(b) Earnings in excess of $100,000 (as adjusted in accordance with Section 414(q)(1) of the Code)
Base salary shall mean the aggregate amount of the base pay rate (before any deductions of contributions or deferrals), commissions and amounts under the J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Management Incentive Compensation Plan due and payable to an Eligible Associate in the applicable Plan Year designated by his or her Employer as the Eligible Associate's monthly pay as reflected on the Employer's personnel records including any such amounts otherwise due and payable with respect to which his or her election to defer applies.
 
 
2.03
 
Participation
An Eligible Associate for a Plan Year shall participate in the Plan for that Plan Year as an Active Participant by making a timely election to defer in accordance with Section 2.04 below. An Eligible Associate who fails to satisfy the requirements of Section 2.04 below shall not be allowed to make an election to defer and shall not be an Active Participant for the applicable Plan Year.
A Participant who is not an Active Participant for a Plan Year shall continue to participate in the Plan in all respects except that such Participant shall not have the right to defer part of his or her Compensation under the Plan for that Plan Year, and
 
shall not be entitled to a Mirror Company Matching Contribution or a Mirror Discretionary Contribution (as determined under Sections 3.04 or 3.06, respectively) for that Plan Year. A Participant hired on or after January 1, 2007, shall be entitled to receive a Mirror Retirement Account Contribution (as determined under 3.05) regardless of whether he or she is an Active Participant.
2.04
 
 
Election to Defer
All elections to defer for a Plan Year must be made in a manner approved by the plan administrator. An Eligible Associate for a Plan Year may elect to defer a percentage (as described in Section 2.05 below) of his or her Compensation for such Plan Year by filing an election which must be received by the plan administrator by December 31 of the preceding Plan Year. A newly Eligible Associate must file his or her election with the plan administrator within 30 days of his or her first date of eligibility for participation in the Mirror Plan. An Active Participant cannot change or terminate his or her election to defer during a Plan Year for that Plan Year except to the extent allowed under the hardship provisions of Section 7.05. However, an Eligible Associate may change his or her election to defer for a subsequent Plan Year with the plan administrator by December 31 of the preceding Plan Year.
An election to defer also shall terminate:
(c)   
if the Plan is terminated, or
 
 
2.05
 
 
Deferral Amounts
An Active Participant for a Plan Year may defer
(a) up to 14% of his Compensation in that Plan Year up to the earnings dollar limit, and,
(b) up to 75% of his Compensation in that Plan Year that exceeds the earnings dollar limit.
All deferral amounts shall be in whole percentages and made by payroll deduction. The earnings dollar limit of an Active Participant for a Plan Year shall be $225,000, as adjusted for cost of living increases in accordance with Section 401(a)(17) of the Code.
2.06
 
Investment Elections
A Participant shall complete an election, in the manner determined by the plan administrator, requesting that all of his or her future deferral amounts (in whole percentages) be applied to the purchase for him or her, as of the earliest practicable Valuation Date after such amounts are deferred, of units in his or her Personal Accounts
 
within any one or more of the Mirror Investment Funds in each case at a price equal to the value of such units as of such Valuation Date.
Such election initially must be made prior to the commencement of his or her participation in the Plan and may be changed at any time during the Plan Year. Each such election shall be effective as soon as administratively feasible following receipt by the plan administrator or its delegate of the Participant's election.
In the event that no timely election by the Participant is on file with the plan administrator, such Participant shall be deemed to have elected that all deferral amounts shall be applied to the purchase for him or her of units in the Personal Account within the Mirror Investment Fund that is the Interest Income Fund.
3.01
 
Establishment of Accounts
A Personal Account and a Company Account within each Mirror Investment Fund
 
shall be established for each Participant in the Plan as if assets were invested in a trust. All amounts credited to the Personal Accounts and Company Accounts of a Participant shall at all times be held in the Company's general funds as part of the Company's general assets, unless a trust is established pursuant to Section 7.08.
The value, including gains and losses, of such accounts and funds shall be determined by the plan administrator in the same manner that the value is determined under the Savings Plan. As of each Valuation Date, the net asset value of a unit shall equal the net asset value of a unit as determined under the Savings Plan.
3.02
 
Personal Accounts
All amounts deferred by an Active Participant pursuant to Article Two shall be credited to his or her Personal Accounts within his or her Mirror Investment Funds specified in his or her investment election.
3.03
 
Company Accounts
All Company matching contributions shall be credited to the Company Account of each Active Participant at each pay period. All Mirror Retirement Account Contributions and Mirror Discretionary Contributions shall be credited to each Active Participants Company Account within 2  months of the Plan Year end.
A Mirror Company Matching Contribution, a Mirror Retirement Account Contribution and a Mirror Discretionary Contribution (as determined under Sections 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 below, respectively) shall be deemed to be invested in his or her Company Account within the Mirror Investment Funds in accordance with the Active Participants Investment election for his or her Personal Accounts under Section 2.06 of this Plan. In the event an Active Participant does not make an investment election, the Active Participant will be deemed to have elected the Mirror Investment Fund that is the Interest Income Fund.
Any amount of Company matching contributions credited to the Participant's Company account under the Savings Plan and subsequently cancelled so that said plan could satisfy the actual contribution percentage test (as described in the Savings Plan) shall be credited to his or her Company Account within the Mirror Investment Fund that is according to the Participants investment election in the year paid.
 
 
 
All amounts credited to the Company Accounts of a Participant shall be subject to the vesting provisions of Article Five.
For each Active Participant who has completed one year of employment and 1,000 hours of service, t
he Company will credit to the Mirror Company Matching Contribution account a matching contribution for each Active Participant in an amount equal to (i) 50% (or such other percent as may be determined from time to time by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee) of the Active Participant's deferral contribution to the Plan for each payroll period that does not exceed 6% of the Active Participant's Compensation for the payroll period reduced by (ii) the maximum matching contribution the Active Participant could have received under the Savings Plan. Each Active Participant's matching contribution will be calculated in the same manner as in the examples attached to the Plan as Exhibit A. 
An Active Participant who had a Separation from Service shall vest in the Mirror Company Matching Account contribution if he or she terminated:
3.05
 
Mirror Retirement Account Contributions
For each Participant hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2007, who has completed one year of employment and 1,000 hours of service and with Compensation in excess of the earnings dollar limit, the Company shall contribute an amount to the Mirror Plan equal to the difference between the Active Participants Compensation and the earnings dollar limit multiplied by 2%.
An Active Participant must be in the active employ of an Employer on December 31 of the Plan Year to receive credit for a Mirror Retirement Account Contribution for that Plan Year; provided, however, that an Active Participant who had a Separation from Service before December 31 of said year shall receive credit for one-twelfth of the Mirror Retirement Account contribution for each month or part of a month employed during the Plan Year if he or she terminated:
An Associate shall not have a right or claim to any of the amounts contributed as a Mirror Retirement Account Contribution if the Associate is summarily discharged, as defined by the Company (including resignation in lieu thereof), unless the Benefits
 
 
Administration Committee, in its sole discretion, determines that such Associate shall be eligible for such benefits notwithstanding such summary discharge.
3.06
 
Mirror Discretionary Contribution
Pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Savings Plan, a Discretionary Contribution shall be credited for each Active Participant to the Company Account in the Mirror Plan in accordance with the calculated deferral percentage of the Active Participant and in a manner deemed appropriate by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee.
An Active Participant must be in the active employ of an Employer on December 31 of the Plan Year to receive credit for a Mirror Discretionary Contribution for that Plan Year; provided, however, that an Active Participant who had a Separation from Service before December 31 of said year shall receive credit for one-twelfth of the Mirror Discretionary Contribution for each month employed during the Plan Year if he or she terminated:
 
An Associate shall not have a right or claim to any of the amounts contributed as a Discretionary Contribution if the Associate is summarily discharged, as defined by the Company (including resignation in lieu thereof), unless the Benefits Administration Committee, in its sole discretion, determines that such Associate shall be eligible for such benefits notwithstanding such summary discharge.
 
4.01
 
 
Personal Accounts
A Participant may elect, once in each calendar day of the Plan Year, to transfer an amount (in whole percentages) equal to the value of all or part of his or her units in his or her Personal Accounts within any one or more of the Mirror Investment Funds to another one or more of his or her Personal Accounts within the Mirror Investment Funds. The value of such units shall be determined as of the Valuation Date. A transfer is effective only if made in the manner determined by the plan administrator.
4.02
 
 
Company Accounts
A Participant may elect, once in each calendar day of the Plan Year, to transfer an amount (in whole percentages) equal to the value of all or part of his or her units in his or her Company Accounts within any one or more of the Mirror Investment Funds to another one or more of his or her Company Accounts within the Mirror Investment Funds. The value of such units shall be determined as of the Valuation Date. A transfer is effective only if made in the manner determined by the plan administrator.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, a Participant who wishes to make transfers from both his or her Personal Accounts and Company Accounts during the same day, must do so as part of the same transaction.
5.01
 
Personal Accounts
A Participant shall be 100% vested in the value of his or her Personal Accounts within his or her Mirror Investment Funds at all times without regard to whether he or she is a Participant in the Plan for any future Plan Year.
This Section 5.02 applies to Mirror Company Matching Contributions described in Section 3.04, Mirror Retirement Account Contributions described in 3.05; and Mirror Discretionary Contributions described in Section 3.06. A Participant shall be 100% vested in the value of his or her Company Accounts within his or her Mirror Investment Funds upon completion of three full years of service, and no vested interest prior to that time, for amounts credited for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2007.
For amounts credited as Mirror Company Matching Contributions for Plan Years before January 1, 2007, such amounts will vest in the same vesting percentage attributable to the value of his or her Company accounts under the Savings Plan based on his or her full years of service (as defined in the Savings Plan) in accordance with the following table:
5.03
 
Forfeitures
A Participant who is less than 100% vested in the value of his or her Company Accounts as of his or her Separation from Service shall forfeit the non-vested value of his or her Company Accounts. In the event the Participant subsequently is re-employed by an Employer within five years, the amount forfeited (without earnings) hereunder shall be restored to his or her Company Accounts in the same manner as the amount, if any, forfeited by his or her Savings Plan Company Accounts would be restored by purchasing units in accordance with the Participants investment election in effect at the time of his or her Separation from Service using the current market value as of the date of employment.
 
6.01
 
Top Hat Plan
The Plan is intended to be a "pension plan" as defined in ERISA and is maintained by the Company on an unfunded basis primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation to a select group of management or highly compensated employees. As such, the Plan is intended to be construed so as not to provide income to any Participant or Beneficiary for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code prior to actual receipt of benefit payments under the Plan.
In the event that it should subsequently be determined by statute or by regulation or ruling that the Plan is not "a plan which is unfunded and is maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), 401 (a)(1), and 4021(b)(6) of ERISA and section 2520.104-24 of Chapter 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations, participation in the Plan shall be restricted by the plan administrator to the extent necessary to assure that it will be such a plan within the meaning of such sections.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if the benefits of a Participant become taxable prior to distribution from the Plan, such amounts shall be distributed as soon as practicable to the affected Participant.
6.02
 
No Funding
Plan benefits shall be payable solely from the general assets of the Company. The Company shall not be required to, but may at its discretion, segregate or physically set aside any funds or assets attributable to Plan benefits. The Company shall retain title to and beneficial ownership of all assets of the Company, including any assets which may be used to pay Plan benefits. The cost of the Plan shall be expensed and a book reserve shall be maintained on the Company's financial statements.
No Participant or Beneficiary shall be deemed to have, pursuant to the Plan, any legal or equitable interest in any specific assets of the Company. To the extent that any Participant or Beneficiary acquires any right to receive Plan benefits, such right shall arise merely as a result of a contractual obligation and shall be no greater than, nor have any preference or priority over, the rights of any general unsecured creditor of the Company.
 
 
 
7.01
 
Normal Form of Payment
The normal form of payment of benefits under the Plan shall be 5 substantially equal annual installments payable in accordance with Section 7.02 below.
7.02
 
Separation from Service
A Participant who has a Separation from Service for a reason other than death shall be entitled to receive the vested benefits in his or her Personal Accounts and Company Accounts in 5 substantially equal annual installments.
The first annual installment shall be paid in January following the year in which occurs his or her Separation from Service. Each annual installment thereafter shall be paid in January of each year. Payment dates shall be determined by the plan administrator.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the present value of the Participants vested benefits does not exceed $5,000, such benefits shall be distributed to the Participant in a single sum payment in January following the year in which occurs the later of (a) his or her Separation from Service or (b) the date of receipt by the plan administrator of the Participants notice of employment termination. Such present value shall be determined as of the date of receipt by the plan administrator of the Participants notice of employment termination; provided, however, that if the Participant had a Separation from Service before January 1, 2000, such present value shall be determined as of December 31, 1999. The payment date shall be determined by the plan administrator.
7.03
 
Death
The Beneficiary of a Participant who (1) has a Separation from Service because of death, or (2) dies after his or her Separation from Service but before receiving all of his or her vested Plan benefits shall be entitled to receive the remaining annual installments to which the Participant was entitled as of the date of death. The first annual installment payable to the Beneficiary shall be paid in January following the Participant's date of death, or, if later, after satisfactory proof of death is received by the plan administrator. Each annual installment thereafter shall be paid in January of each year. Payment dates shall be determined by the plan administrator.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the present value of the Participants vested benefits does not exceed $5,000, such benefits shall be distributed to the Beneficiary of the Participant in a single sum payment in January following the Participants date of
 
 
 
death, or, if later, after satisfactory proof of death is received by the plan administrator. The payment date shall be determined by the plan administrator.
A single-sum distribution shall be paid to the estate of the Participant if as of the date of death (1) no valid beneficiary designation by the Participant is on file with the plan administrator, (2) the Beneficiary has predeceased the Participant, or (3) the Beneficiary has died within 30 days after the Participants date of death.
A single-sum distribution shall be paid to the estate of the Beneficiary if the Beneficiary dies before receiving all benefits to which he or she was entitled under the Plan.
7.04
 
Alternate Form of Payment
A Participant entitled to receive benefits under Section 7.02 above may make an irrevocable election to receive (1) not more than 15 substantially equal annual installments, or (2) a single-sum distribution. The election must be made prior to the Participant's Separation from Service in a manner authorized by the plan administrator. If no election has been made by the Participant, benefits shall be paid in the normal form of payment in accordance with Section 7.02 above.
The first annual installment or single-sum distribution shall be paid in January following the year in which occurs his or her Separation from Service; provided, however, that the first annual installment or single-sum distribution shall not be paid until the January following the expiration of at least one calendar year after the year in which the Participant's election is made. Each annual installment thereafter shall be paid in January of each year.
A Participant also may make an irrevocable election to defer payment of the first installment or single-sum distribution to January of a later year provided the election is made prior to the
 
Participant's Separation from Service in a manner authorized by the plan administrator. If no election has been made by the Participant, benefits shall commence in accordance with Section 7.02 or Section 7.04 above, whichever is applicable.
A Participant who elects both to change the normal form of payment and to defer payment must make the elections at the same time.
7.05
 
Hardship Distribution
A Participant or Beneficiary entitled to vested benefits under the Plan may request a single-sum distribution to satisfy a severe financial hardship resulting from an unforeseen event or emergency (as defined below) beyond his control. The distribution shall be limited to the amount necessary to satisfy the severe financial hardship (including any applicable federal, state or local taxes attributable to such distribution),
 
and shall not exceed the current value of vested benefits payable to or on behalf of the Participant or Beneficiary.
An unforeseen event or emergency may include, but is not limited to, a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or Beneficiary or his or her dependent, loss of his or her property due to
 
casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as the result of events beyond his or her control, but shall not include the purchase of his or her home or the college expenses of his or her child.
The determination of the existence of a severe financial hardship and the approval of a hardship distribution shall be made by the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer, (or his successor by title or position) or his delegate except as provided below. Approval shall be given only if, taking into account all of the facts and circumstances, continued deferral of benefits or adherence to the Plan's payment schedule would result in a severe financial hardship to the Participant or Beneficiary. Approval shall not be granted if such hardship is or may be relieved through insurance, by liquidation of his or her assets (to the extent such liquidation would not itself cause severe financial hardship), or by terminating his or her election to defer.
With respect to a Participant who is a member of the Executive Board of the Company or a Participant who is subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the determination of the existence of a severe financial hardship and the approval of the hardship distribution shall be made by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee.
In the case of a Participant or Beneficiary who receives a partial hardship distribution while receiving benefit payments, the regular payment schedule of the Participant or Beneficiary shall continue following such distribution.
The payment to a Participant or Beneficiary of installments or a hardship distribution shall reduce the value of his or her accounts in his or her Mirror Investment Fund(s) as designated by the Participant or Beneficiary. In the event the Participant or Beneficiary fails to designate the Mirror Investment Funds from which payment is to be made, the value of his or her Mirror Investment Funds shall be reduced on a pro-rata basis.
7.07
 
Form of Payments
Payment of all benefits from the Plan shall be made only by check. No payments of Company stock shall be permitted.
 
 
7.08
 
Change of Control
At the time of commencement of participation in the Plan, a Participant may make an irrevocable election to have his or her Plan benefits paid in a single-sum immediately upon a Change of Control (as hereafter defined). If the Participant makes such an election as described above, his or her vested Plan benefits shall be paid in a single-sum upon a Change of Control.
If the Participant does not make such an election, then, upon a Change of Control, assets of the Parent Company in an amount sufficient to pay benefits then due under the Plan shall immediately be transferred to a grantor trust to be established by the Parent Company for the purpose of paying benefits hereunder, and the Personal Account and Company Account shall thereafter be paid to the Participant from such trust in accordance with the terms of the Plan; provided that at the time of such Change of Control, the Participant may make an irrevocable election to have his or her Plan benefits paid in a single-sum immediately, in which event the Participants benefits shall be reduced by 10% as a penalty for early withdrawal, and the Participant shall receive a single-sum payment of only 90% of his or her benefits otherwise payable under the Plan. On each anniversary date of the date of a Change of Control, the Parent Company shall transfer to the grantor trust an amount necessary to pay all benefits accrued under the plan during the preceding twelve months.
For purposes of this Section 7.08, a Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred if the event set forth in any one of the following paragraphs shall have occurred:
 
 (a)
   
  
any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Parent Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Parent Company or its Affiliates) representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of the Parent Companys then outstanding securities; or
(b)
 
during any period of two consecutive calendar years, the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving as directors of the Parent Company: individuals, who on July 14, 1999 constitute the Board of Directors of the Parent Company and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with the settlement of an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Parent Company) whose appointment or election by the Board of Directors of the Parent Company or nomination for election by the Parent Companys stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who either were directors on July 14, 1999 or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended; or
(c) there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Parent Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Parent Company with any other corporation of entity, other than
(d)
 
the stockholders of the Parent Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Parent Company, or there is consummated a sale or disposition by the Parent Company or any of its subsidiaries of any assets which individually or as part of a series of related transactions constitute all or substantially all of the Parent Companys consolidated assets, other than any such sale or disposition to an entity at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of the Parent Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the voting securities of the Parent Company immediately prior to such sale or disposition; or
(e)
  
the execution of a binding agreement that if consummated would result in a Change of Control of a type specified in subparagraphs (a) or (c) above (an Acquisition Agreement) or of a binding agreement for the sale of disposition of assets that, if consummated, would result in a Change of Control of a type specified in subparagraph (d) above (an Asset Sale Agreement) or the adoption by the Board of Directors if the Parent Company of a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Parent Company that, if consummated, would result in a Change of Control of a type specified in subparagraph (d) above (a Plan of Liquidation), provided, however, that a Change of Control of the type specified in this subparagraph (e) shall not be deemed to exist or have occurred as a result of the execution of such Acquisition Agreement or Asset Sale Agreement, or the adoption of such a Plan of Liquidation, from and after the Abandonment Date. As used in this subparagraph (e), the term Abandonment Date shall mean the date on which
 
(f)
 
the Board of Directors of the Parent Company adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Plan, a Change of Control has occurred.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of the Parent Company immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate ownership in an entity (i) which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Parent Company immediately following such transaction or series of transactions, (ii) which is intended to reflect or track the value or performance of a particular division, business segment or subsidiary of the Parent Company, or (iii) which is an affiliated company, subsidiary, or spin-off entity owned by the stockholders of the Parent Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Parent Company on the date of such spin-off.
As used in connection with the foregoing definition of Change of Control, Affiliate shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act; Beneficial Owner shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act; Exchange Act shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time; Parent shall mean any entity that becomes the Beneficial Owner of at least 50% of the voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Parent Company or of an entity that survives any merger or consolidation of the Parent Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Parent Company; and Person shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Parent Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Parent Company or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (iv) a corporation or entity owned, directly or indirectly, by the
stockholders of the Parent Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Parent Company.
7.09
 
Reemployed Participants
If the Participant is reemployed, his or her scheduled payments under Section 7.02 or Section 7.04 shall cease and his or her election, if any, under Section 7.04 shall be void. The Participant may make a new election under Section 7.04 prior to his or her subsequent Separation from Service that shall apply to any unpaid benefits and to any additional benefits payable to or on behalf of the Participant because of a subsequent Separation from Service.
If no new election is made by the Participant, benefits shall be paid in the normal form of payment in accordance with Section 7.02 above.
8.01
 
Plan Amendment
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee may amend the Plan at any time and from time to time, without prior notice to any Participant or Beneficiary; provided, however, that the Human Resources Committee also may make amendments that relate primarily to the administration of the Plan, are applied in a uniform and consistent manner to all Participants, and are reported to the Human Resources and Compensation Committee.
8.02
 
Plan Termination
The Board of Directors of the Parent Company may terminate or discontinue the Plan at any time. If the Plan is terminated, it shall be on such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors of the Parent Company shall deem appropriate.
8.03
 
Automatic Plan Termination
This Plan is expressly conditioned on the continued deferral of income tax on amounts deferred by a Participant under the Plan until such amounts are actually distributed to the Participant. If, as a result of an adverse determination by the Internal Revenue Service or a change in the tax laws or applicable income tax regulations, amounts deferred by Participants under the Plan become subject to income tax prior to the actual distribution of such amounts, the Plan and each election to defer hereunder shall automatically terminate as of the effective date of such change in the law without any formal action by the Board of Directors to terminate the Plan.
9.01
 
Plan Administration
The Plan shall be administered under the direction of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee. Except as otherwise provided below, the Benefits Administration Committee shall be considered the plan administrator for purposes of ERISA.
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee may delegate all or some of the responsibility for the administration of the Plan to the Human Resources Committee or the Benefits Administration Committee in which case such Committee shall assume such delegated power and authority in administering the Plan to that extent; provided, however, that in no event shall the Human Resources Committee or the Benefits Administration Committee have any power or authority with respect to matters involving a Participant who is a member of the Executive Board of the Company or a Participant who is subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
The plan administrator has the authority and discretion to construe and interpret the Plan. As part of this authority, the plan administrator has the discretion to resolve inconsistencies or ambiguities in the language of the Plan, to supply omissions from or correct deficiencies in the language of the Plan, and to adopt rules for the administration of the Plan which are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan. The plan administrator also has the authority and discretion to resolve all questions of fact relating to any claim for benefits as to any matter for which the plan administrator has responsibility. All determinations of the plan administrator are final and binding on all parties.
Each person considered to be a fiduciary with respect to the Plan shall have only those powers and responsibilities as are specifically given that person under this Plan. It is intended that each such person shall be responsible for the proper exercise of his or her own powers and responsibilities, and shall not be responsible for any act or failure to act of any other person considered to be a fiduciary or any act or failure to act of any person considered to be a non-fiduciary.
9.02
 
Plan Expenses
All Plan administration expenses incurred by the Company or the plan administrator shall be paid by the Company.
9.03
 
Effect on Other Benefits
Participation in the Plan shall not reduce any welfare benefits or retirement benefits offered by the Company, except that the amounts deferred under the Plan and
 
any Plan benefits shall not be considered "Compensation" for purposes of the Savings Plan.
9.04
 
No Guarantee of Employment
Neither participation in the Plan nor any action taken under the Plan shall confer upon a Participant any right to continue in the employ of an Employer or affect the right of such Employer to terminate the Participant's employment at any time.
9.05
 
Disclaimer of Liability
The Employer shall be solely responsible for the payment of Plan benefits hereunder. The members of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee and the Human Resources Committee, and the officers, directors, employees, or agents of the Company or any other Employer, shall not be liable for such benefits. Unless otherwise required by law, no such person shall be liable for any action or failure to act, except where such act or omission constitutes gross negligence or willful or intentional misconduct.
9.06
 
Severability
If any provision of the Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall apply only to that provision, and shall not affect or render invalid or unenforceable any other provision of the Plan. In such event, the Plan shall be administered and construed as if such invalid or unenforceable provision were not contained herein. If the application of any Plan provision to any Participant or Beneficiary shall be held invalid or unenforceable, the application of such provision to any other Participant or Beneficiary shall not in any manner be affected thereby.
9.07
 
Successors
The Plan and any election to defer shall be binding on (i) the Company and its successors and assigns, (ii) any Employer and its successors and assigns, (iii) each Participant, (iv) each Beneficiary, and (v) the heirs, distributees, and legal representatives of each Participant and Beneficiary.
9.08
 
Governing Law
Except to the extent that the Plan may be subject to the provisions of ERISA, the Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Texas without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof. In the event limitations imposed by ERISA on legal actions do not apply, the laws of the State of Texas shall apply, and a cause of action under the Plan must be brought no later than four years after the date the action accrues.
 
 
9.09
 
Construction
As used herein, the masculine shall include the feminine, the singular shall include the plural, and vice versa, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Titles and headings herein are for convenience only and shall not be considered in construing the Plan. The words "hereof," "hereunder", and other similar compounds of the word "here" shall mean and refer to the entire Plan and not to any particular provision or Section.
9.10
 
Taxes
Any taxes imposed on Plan benefits shall be the sole responsibility of the Participant or Beneficiary. The Company shall deduct from Plan benefits any federal taxes, state taxes, local taxes, or other taxes required to be withheld. The Company shall, unless the plan administrator elects otherwise, withhold such taxes at the applicable flat rate percentage. The Company shall also deduct from any payment of Compensation, including any cash incentive payments, on the date such payment would have been made if not deferred under this Plan Social Security and Medicare taxes or other taxes required to be withheld on such date.
9.11
 
Non-Assignabilty
Unless otherwise required by law, and prior to distribution to a Participant or Beneficiary, Plan benefits shall not be subject to assignment, transfer, sale, pledge, encumbrance, alienation, or charge by such Participant or Beneficiary, and any attempt to do so shall be void. Plan benefits shall not be liable for or subject to garnishment, attachment, execution, or levy, or liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, or liabilities of the Participant or Beneficiary; provided, however, that the Company may offset from the payment of any Plan benefits to a Participant or Beneficiary amounts owed by the Participant to an Employer.
9.12
 
Claims Procedure
If a Participant or Beneficiary ("claimant") does not receive the benefits which the claimant believes he or she is entitled to receive under the Plan, the claimant may file a claim for benefits with the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate). All claims must be made in writing and must be signed by the claimant. If the claimant does not furnish sufficient information to determine the validity of the claim, the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) will indicate to the claimant any additional information which is required.
Each claim will be approved or disapproved by the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) within 90 days following receipt of the information necessary to process the claim. In the event the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) denies a claim for benefits in whole or in part, the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her
 
 
delegate) will notify the claimant in writing of the denial of the claim. Such notice by the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) will also set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the specific reasons for such denial, the specific Plan provisions on which the denial is based, a description of any additional material or information necessary to perfect the claim with an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and an explanation of the Plan's claim review procedure as set forth below. If no action is taken by the Chief Human Resources and Administration Officer (or his or her delegate) on or a claim within 90 days, the claim will be deemed to be denied for purposes of the review procedure below.
A claimant may appeal a denial of his or her claim by requesting a review of the decision by the plan administrator. An appeal must be submitted in writing within six months after the denial and must (i) request a review of the claim for benefits under the Plan, (ii) set forth all the grounds upon which the claimant's request for review is based and any facts in support thereof, and (iii) set forth any issues or comments which the claimant deems pertinent to the appeal.
The plan administrator will make a full and fair review of each appeal and any written materials submitted in connection with the appeal. The plan administrator will act upon each appeal within 60 days after receipt thereof, unless special circumstances require an extension of the time for processing, in which case a decision will be rendered as soon as possible but not later than 120 days after the appeal is received. The claimant will be given the opportunity to review pertinent documents or materials upon submission of a written request to the plan administrator, provided the plan administrator finds the requested documents or materials pertinent to the appeal. On the basis of its review, the plan administrator will make an independent determination of the claimant's eligibility for benefits under the Plan.
The decision of the plan administrator on any claim for benefits will be final and conclusive upon all parties thereto. In the event the plan administrator denies an appeal in whole or in part, the plan administrator will give written notice of the decision to the claimant, which notice will set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, the specific reasons for such denial and specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision was based.
10.01
  
 
Priority over Other Provisions
 
The provisions set forth in this Article will supersede any conflicting provisions of the Plan.
10.02
 
Cancellation of Deferrals and Termination of Participation
 
Any amount subject to Code section 409A paid to a Participant during 2005 that would otherwise violate the requirements of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4) will be treated as a distribution in termination of the Participants participation in the Plan or a cancellation of the Participant's deferral election. The amounts subject to termination or cancellation will be includible in the Participants income in the calendar year 2005. This paragraph applies to (i) payments in 2005 to a specified employee, as that term is defined in Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), within six months after the date of the Participants separation from service, as that term is defined by the Secretary; (ii) payments in 2005 pursuant to the election of an alternate form of payment under Section 7.04; and (iii) any other payments in 2005 otherwise in violation of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3), or (4).
10.03
 
Change in Payment Elections or Conditions on or Before December 31, 2006
 
With respect to amounts subject to Code section 409A, a Participant may make a new payment election on or before December 31, 2006, as permitted by the preamble to the Proposed Regulations; and the election will not be treated as a change in the timing and form of payment under Code section 409A(a)(4) or an acceleration of a payment under Code section 409A(a)(3); provided, however, that a Participant cannot in 2006 change payment elections with respect to payments that the Participant would otherwise receive in 2006, or to cause payments to be made in 2006. Any election made by a Participant on or before December 31, 2006 (including an election made before January 1, 2005) that applies to an amount accrued under the Plan subject to Code section 409A will be treated as a new election under this paragraph unless an election in 2006 would apply to amounts that otherwise would be payable in 2006.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
 
Article
         
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Page
ARTICLE ONE INTRODUCTION....................................................................................1
   
 
ARTICLE TWO    DEFINITIONS.........................................................................................2
   
ARTICLE THREE ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION..................................................8
   
ARTICLE FOUR  BENEFITS.................................................................................................9
   
ARTICLE FIVE    AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION..................................................18
   
ARTICLE SIX      MISCELLANEOUS.................................................................................19
   
APPENDIX I        PARTICIPATING EMPLOYERS............................................................25
   
 
 
 The J.C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Change in Control Plan (the "Plan") consists primarily of (i) severance benefits, (ii) other benefits after termination of employment under or outside of the non-qualified retirement plans maintained by the Corporation and (iii) a cash amount payable at termination of employment equal to the Corporations cost of health and welfare benefits the associate participated in immediately prior to the Change in Control. The purpose and intent of the Plan is to attract and retain key associates and to improve associate productivity by reducing distractions resulting from a potential Change in Control situation, all of which are in the best interest of the Corporation, and J.C. Penney Company, Inc. and its stockholders.
Capitalized terms used throughout the Plan have the meanings set forth in Article Two except as otherwise defined in the Plan, or the context clearly requires otherwise.
 
The Plan is intended to be a plan providing Severance Pay and certain retirement and other benefits following a Change in Control. The Plan is intended to be a top hat plan for a select group of management or highly compensated executives, subject only to the administration and enforcement provisions of ERISA.
This document, including any Appendix hereto, and any documents incorporated by reference set forth the provisions of the Plan effective as of the Effective Date, except as otherwise provided herein.
 
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board (Committee) shall administer the Plan, provided, however, that none of the members of the Committee will be a Participant. The powers and duties of the Committee in administering the Plan are set forth in Article Six.
 
 
means a nationally recognized accounting firm, or actuarial, benefits or compensation consulting firm, (with experience in performing the calculations regarding the applicability Section 280G of the Code and of the tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code) selected by a Participant in his/her sole discretion.
Accounting Firm
means the Board of Directors of J.C. Penney Company, Inc.
Board
 
means the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the proposed, temporary and final regulations promulgated thereunder. Reference to any section or subsection of the Code includes reference to any comparable or succeeding provisions of any legislation that amends, supplements or replaces such section or subsection.
Code
shall mean J. C. Penney Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor company.
Company
shall mean the annual base salary rate of a Participant, plus the Participants target annual incentive compensation (at $1.00 per unit), under the Corporation's Management Incentive Compensation Plan (or any successor plans thereto) for the fiscal year, all at the greater of the amount in effect on the date of the Change in Control or as of his/her Employment Termination date, or immediately prior to the event that constitutes grounds for a Constructive Termination. As applied to a Participant employed by an affiliate or Subsidiary of the Corporation, Compensation shall include the same elements of pay to the extent the affiliate or Subsidiary maintains similar or comparable pay arrangements.
Compensation
 
shall mean a resignation from employment with the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate) after any of the actions listed below directed at a Participant:
Constructive Termination
(a)  decrease in salary or incentive compensation opportunity (as compared with the incentive compensation opportunity in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control), or
(b)  failure by the Corporation to pay the Participant any portion of his/her current base salary, or incentive compensation within seven days of its due date, or
(c)  adverse change in reporting responsibilities, duties, or status as compared with pre-Change in Control responsibilities, duties, or status, or
(d)  the Corporation requires the Participant to have the Participants principal location of work changed to a location more than 50 miles from the location thereof immediately prior to the Change in Control, or
(e)  discontinuance of the Participants participation in, or discontinuance of any material employee paid time off policy, fringe benefit, welfare benefit, incentive compensation, equity compensation, or retirement plan (without equivalent compensating remuneration or replacement by a plan providing substantially similar benefits) or any action that materially reduces such Participants benefits or payments under such plans, as in effect immediately before the Change in Control.
shall mean J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor company.
Corporation
shall mean February 28, 2007.
Effective Date
shall be deemed to have occurred for a Participant when he/she ceases to be an employee of the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary within two years after a Change in Control (or prior to a Change in Control if the Participant has reasonably demonstrated that such termination of employment (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control, or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of a Change in Control) because of either a Constructive Termination or a termination by the Corporation other than as a result of a Summary Dismissal. An Employment Termination shall not include a termination by reason of the Participants death, disability, voluntary quit other than a Constructive Termination, or Normal Retirement.
Employment Termination
 
 
shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Reference to any section or subsection of ERISA includes reference to any comparable or succeeding provisions of any legislation that amends, supplements or replaces such section or subsection.
ERISA
 
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Reference to any section or subsection of the Exchange Act includes reference to any comparable or succeeding provisions of any legislation that amends, supplements or replaces such section or subsection.
Exchange Act
shall mean, collectively, (i) the tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code by reason of being contingent on a change in ownership or control of the Company, within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code, or (ii) any similar tax imposed by state or local law, or (iii) any interest or penalties with respect to any excise tax described in clause (i) or (ii).
Excise Tax
 
means the individuals who, as of the Effective Date hereof, are Directors of the Company or the Corporation, as the context requires, and any individual becoming a Director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, nomination for election by the Companys or Corporations stockholders, or appointment, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the then Incumbent Directors (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination); , , that an individual shall not be an Incumbent Director if such individuals election or appointment to the Board occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest (as described in Rule 14a-12(c) of the Exchange Act) with respect to the election or removal of Directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board.
Incumbent Directors
provided
however
 
shall mean retirement at or after a Participants normal retirement date as determined in accordance with the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Pension Plan as in effect immediately prior to a Change in Control.
Normal Retirement
shall mean each person appointed by the Board to the Executive Board allowing them to participate in the Plan as provided in Article Three and who continues to be an Executive Board member immediately prior to a Change in Control.
Participant
 
shall mean the Corporation and any
Participating Employer
Subsidiary or affiliate of the Corporation which is designated as a Participating Employer under the Plan by the Board, excluding, however, any division of the Corporation or of a Subsidiary or affiliate that is designated by the Board as ineligible to participate in the Plan. Appendix I contains a list of the Participating Employers currently participating in the Plan that have adopted the Plan pursuant to Article Six.
shall mean the cash severance payments payable to a Participant pursuant to Section 4.01 of the Plan.
Severance Pay
shall mean Severance Pay and the other benefits described in Article Four of the Plan payable to a Participant.
Severance Benefits
shall mean any entity in which the Company, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns 50% or more of the Voting Stock.
Subsidiary
shall mean a termination due to:
Summary Dismissal
(a) any willful or negligent material violation of any applicable securities laws (including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002);
(b) any intentional act of fraud or embezzlement from the Corporation or Company;
(c) a conviction of or entering into a plea of nolo contendere to a felony that occurs during or in the course of the Participants employment with the Corporation;
(d) any breach of a written covenant or agreement with the Corporation, which is material and which is not cured within 30 days after written notice thereof from the Corporation; and
(e) willful and continued failure of the Participant to substantially perform his/her duties for the Corporation (other than as a result of incapacity due to physical or mental illness) or to materially comply with Corporation or Company policy after written notice, in either case, from the Corporation and a 30-day opportunity to cure.
For purposes hereof, an act, or failure to act, shall not be deemed to be willful or intentional unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant in bad faith or without a reasonable belief that the action or omission was in the best interests of the Corporation.
means securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
Voting Stock
 
 
3.01 
  
 
Eligibility on the Effective Date
Each person who has been appointed to the Executive Board of the Corporation (Executive Board) by the Board as of the Effective Date will be a Participant in the Plan.
3.02 
  
 
Future Eligibility
Each person who is appointed to the Executive Board by the Board after the Effective Date and prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control will be a Participant in the Plan.
 
4.01  
   
Severance Pay
Upon an Employment Termination, a Participant shall become entitled to Severance Pay in accordance with the following schedule.
                                     
Title
   
   
   
   
Severance Pay Period
Chief Executive Officer and direct reports                                3 years
Other Executive Vice Presidents 2.5 years
   
  
   
     
Senior Vice Presidents         2 years
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
Severance Pay will be computed by multiplying the Participants Compensation times the number of years (including any fraction of a year) in the Participants Severance Pay Period, plus a cash amount equal to the aggregate Corporations premium cost for active associate Medical, Dental and Life Insurance Plans coverage, if any, provided to the Participant on the date of the Change in Control, or if higher, the amount in effect at Employment Termination, times the number of years (including any fraction of a year) in the Severance Pay Period. Such lump sum Corporation contribution toward Medical, Dental and Life Insurance Plans coverage for the Severance Pay Period will be grossed-up for federal income taxes using the applicable federal income tax rate that applied to the Participant for his/her prior years Compensation.
Except as provided in subpart 4.01A, Severance Pay shall be paid in a lump sum within 30 days after Employment Termination.
In the event a Participant is entitled to any cash severance payments that are payable in the event of termination of employment pursuant to a written contract ("contract payments") between the Participant and the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary, Severance Pay otherwise payable to the Participant under this Section 4.01 shall be reduced by the amount of such contract payments. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant receives payments and benefits pursuant to this Section 4.01, the Participant shall not be entitled to any severance pay or benefits under any severance plan, program or policy of the Company or an affiliate or Subsidiary, unless otherwise specifically provided therein in a specific reference to this Plan.
A. 
Section 409A
 
To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Plan comply with the provisions of Code Section 409A. This Plan shall be administered in a manner consistent with this intent and any provision that would cause this
 
 
Plan to fail to satisfy Code Section 409A shall have no force and effect until amended to comply with Code Section 409A (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Code Section 409A and may be made by the Corporation without the consent of Participants). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 4.01, if any portion of Severance Pay constitutes a deferral of compensation, that portion of the Severance Pay will be paid on the latest of (i) the date specified in this Plan, (ii) the Participants separation from service, or (iii) if the Participant is a specified employee, six months after the Participants separation from service. Deferral of compensation, separation from service and specified employee have the meanings ascribed to such phrases in Code Section 409A.
 
4.02   
   
Prorated Incentive Compensation
A Participant who is covered under the Management Incentive Compensation Program and who becomes entitled to Severance Pay under this Plan shall be paid a lump sum equal to the Participants pro-rated target annual incentive compensation (at $1.00 per unit), under the Corporation's Management Incentive Compensation Program (or any successor plans thereto) for the fiscal year; provided, however, if the Employment Termination occurs on the last day of the Corporations fiscal year the Participant shall be paid the higher of (a) target annual incentive compensation (at $1.00 per unit) or (b) the actual annual incentive compensation earned under the Corporations Management Incentive Compensation Program. Such lump sum to be paid with the Severance Pay payable under Section 4.01.
4.03  
   
Retiree Medical and Dental Coverage
 
 
 
 purposes the same as any other involuntary termination resulting from a reduction in force would receive under the terms of such plans.
   
 Retiree life insurance benefits shall be paid solely from the insurance policy or policies provided under said plan.
   
4.05  
   
Non-Qualified Retirement Plans
If a Participant becomes entitled to Severance Pay under this Plan he/she will receive an immediate lump sum payment within 30 days after Employment Termination, subject to subpart 4.01A, of any incremental benefit provided outside the terms of the applicable retirement plan calculated as follows, if he/she,
 
provided, however, that if and to the extent a Participant is otherwise entitled to receive any additional age and/or service credit under any such plan as a result of Employment Termination, the additional age and/or service credit otherwise provided under this Section 4.05 shall not be counted twice for purposes of determining eligibility.
4.06  
   
Legal Fees
All expenses of a Participant incurred in enforcing his/her rights and/or to recover his/her benefits under this Article Four, including but not limited to, attorney's fees, court costs, arbitration costs, and other expenses shall be paid by the Corporation. The Corporation shall pay, or reimburse the Participant for such fees, costs and expenses, promptly upon presentment of appropriate documentation, but only if, to the extent and at the earliest date(s) such reimbursements are determined to be permitted without violating Code Section 409A.
4.07  
   
Outplacement Services/Financial Counseling
Following an Employment Termination, a Participant will be paid a lump sum payment in cash of $25,000 to allow the Participant to pay for outplacement and financial counseling services. Such lump sum to be paid with the Severance Pay payable under Section 4.01.
4.08  
   
Special Bonus Hours
In the event of an Employment Termination, a Participant will be paid for Special Bonus Hours, if he/she is also a participant in the Paid Time Off Policy (PTO Policy) the same as any other involuntary termination resulting from a reduction in force would receive under the terms of the PTO Policy. Such payment will be determined in accordance with the provisions of the PTO Policy and paid within 30 days after the Participants Employment Termination date.
4.09   
   
Gross-Up Payments To Make Participants Whole if Excise Tax Applies
Anything in the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, but subject to paragraph (g) below, if it shall be determined (as hereafter provided) that any payment or distribution by the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary to or for the benefit of the Participant, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of the Plan or otherwise pursuant to or by reason of any other agreement, policy, plan, program or arrangement, including without limitation any stock option, stock appreciation right or similar right, or the lapse or termination of any restriction on or the vesting or exercisability of any of the foregoing (a Payment), would be subject to the Excise Tax, then the Participant shall be entitled to receive an additional
 
payment or payments (a Gross-Up Payment) in an amount such that, after payment by the Participant of all taxes (including any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes other than interest and penalties imposed by reason of the Employees failure to timely file a tax return or pay taxes shown due on his/her return), including any Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Participant retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. No Gross-Up Payment will be made with respect to the Excise Tax, if any, attributable to (a) any incentive stock option, as defined by Section 422 of the Code (ISO) granted prior to the commencement of a Participants eligibility under the Plan (unless a comparable Gross-Up Payment has theretofore been made available with respect to such option), or (b) any stock appreciation or similar right, whether or not limited, granted in tandem with any ISO described in clause (a) above.
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) hereof, all determinations required to be made under Section 4.09 of the Plan, including whether an Excise Tax is payable by the Participant and the amount of such Excise Tax and whether a Gross-Up Payment is required to be paid by the Corporation to the Participant and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment, shall be made by the Accounting Firm. The Accounting Firm shall make an initial determination at the time of a change in control (as defined in Section 409A) of any Gross-Up Payment required to be paid taking into account current payments and estimated future payments that might affect the amount of the Gross-Up Payment. In addition, the Participant shall direct the Accounting Firm to submit its determination and detailed supporting calculations to both the Corporation and the Participant within 15 calendar days after the date of the Participants Employment Termination, if applicable, and any other such time or times as may be requested by the Corporation or the Participant; notwithstanding the foregoing, the first two Gross-Up Payments, if otherwise required, shall be made at a time that would satisfy the requirements of Section 409A in relation to a change in control (as defined in Section 409A) and the Employment Termination of the Participant, if applicable. If the Accounting Firm determines that any Excise Tax is payable by the Participant, the Corporation shall pay the required Gross-Up Payment to the Participant within five business days after the receipt of such determination and calculations. If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by the Participant, it shall, at the same time as it makes such determination, furnish the Participant with an opinion that he/she has substantial authority not to report any Excise Tax on his/her federal, state, local income or other tax return. As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 and other applicable provisions of the Code (or any successor provisions thereto) and the possibility of similar uncertainty regarding applicable state or local tax law at the time of any determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments that shall not have been made by the Corporation should have been made (an Underpayment), consistent with the
 
 
calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event that the Corporation exhausts or fails to pursue its remedies pursuant to paragraph (e) hereof and the Participant thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Participant shall direct the Accounting Firm to determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and to submit its determination and detailed supporting calculations to both the Corporation and the Participant as promptly as possible. Any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Corporation to, or for the benefit of, the Participant within five business days after receipt of such determination and calculations.
(b) The Corporation and the Participant shall each provide the Accounting Firm access to and copies of any books, records and documents in the possession of the Corporation or the Participant, as the case may be, reasonably requested by the Accounting Firm, and otherwise cooperate with the Accounting Firm in connection with the preparation and issuance of the determination contemplated by paragraph (a) hereof. Any reasonable determination by the Accounting Firm as the amount of the Gross-Up Payment (and supported by the calculations done by the Accounting Firm) shall be binding upon the Corporation and the Participant.
(c) The federal, state and local income or other tax returns filed by the Participant shall be prepared and filed on a consistent basis with the determination of the Accounting Firm with respect to the Excise Tax, if any, payable by the Participant. The Participant shall make proper payment of the amount of any Excise Tax, and at the request of the Corporation, provide to the Corporation true and correct copies (with any amendments) of his/her federal income tax return as filed with the Internal Revenue Service and corresponding state and local tax returns, if relevant, as filed with the applicable taxing authority, and such other documents reasonably requested by the Corporation, evidencing such payment. If prior to the filing of Participants federal income tax return, or corresponding state or local tax return, if relevant, the Accounting Firm determines that the amount of the Gross-Up Payment should be reduced, the Participant shall within five business days pay to the Corporation the amount of such reduction.
(d) The fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm for its services in connection with the determinations and calculations contemplated by paragraphs (a) and (c) hereof shall be borne by the Corporation. If such fees and expenses are initially paid by the Participant, the Corporation shall reimburse the Participant the full amount of such fees and expenses within five business days after receipt from the Participant of a statement therefore and reasonable evidence of this payment thereof.
(e) The Participant shall notify the Corporation in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Corporation of a Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given
 
as promptly as practicable but no later than 10 business days after the Participant actually receives notice of such claim and the Participant shall further apprise the Corporation of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid (in each case, to the extent known by the Participant). The Participant shall not pay such claim prior to the earlier of (i) the expiration of the 30-calendar-day period following the date on which he gives such notice to the Corporation and (ii) the date that any payment of amount with respect to such claim is due. If the Corporation notifies the Participant in writing prior to the expiration of such period that it desires to contest such claim, the Participant shall:
(1) provide the Corporation with any written records or documents in his/her possession relating to such claim reasonably requested by the Corporation;
(2) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Corporation shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including without limitation accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney competent in respect to the subject matter and reasonably selected by the Corporation;
(3) cooperate with the Corporation in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim; and
(4) permit the Corporation to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim;
provided, however, that the Corporation shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold harmless the Participant, on an after-tax basis, for and against any Excise Tax or income tax, including interest and penalties with respect thereto, imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (e), the Corporation shall control all proceedings taken in connection with the contest of any claim contemplated by this paragraph (e) and, at its sole option, may pursue or forego any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the taxing authority in respect of such claim (provided, however, that the Participant may participate therein at his/her own cost and expense) and may, at its option, either direct the Participant to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Participant agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Corporation shall determine; provided, however, that if the Corporation directs the Participant to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund, the Corporation shall pay to the Participant the amount of such tax (including
 
interest and penalties) and shall indemnify and hold the Participant harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or directly related income tax or other tax, including interest or penalties imposed with respect to such payment; and provided further, however, that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Participant with respect to which the contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Corporations control of any such contested claim shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Participant shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
(f) If the Participant receives any refund with respect to such contested claim filed at the Corporations request under paragraph (e), the Participant shall (subject to the Corporations complying with the requirements of paragraph (e) hereof) promptly pay to the Corporation the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after any taxes applicable thereto). If a determination is made that the Participant shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Corporation does not notify the Participant in writing of its intent to contest such denial prior to the expiration of 30 calendar days after such determination, then the amount paid to the Participant by the Corporation as provided in paragraph (e) shall not be required to be repaid and, the amount of such payment, shall be an offset to the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid pursuant to this Section 4.09.
(g) Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, but giving effect to any redetermination of the amount of Gross-Up Payments otherwise required by this Section 4.09, if (1) but for this sentence, the Corporation would be obligated to make a Gross-Up Payment to the Participant and (2) the aggregate present value of the parachute payments to be paid or provided to the Participant under this Plan or otherwise does not exceed 1.10 multiplied by 2.99 times the Participants base amount, then the payments and benefits to be paid or provided under this Plan will be reduced (or repaid to the Corporation, if previously paid or provided) to the minimum extent necessary so that no portion of any payment or benefit to the Participant, as so reduced or repaid, constitutes an excess parachute payment. For purposes of this paragraph (g), the terms excess parachute payment, present value, parachute payment, and base amount will have the meanings assigned to them by Section 280G of the Code. The determination of whether any reduction in or repayment of such payments or benefits to be provided under this Plan is required pursuant to this paragraph (g) will be made at the expense of the Corporation, if requested by the Participant or the Corporation, by the Accounting Firm. Appropriate adjustments will be made to amounts previously paid to the Participant, or to amounts not paid pursuant to this paragraph (g), as the case may be, to reflect
 
 
properly a subsequent determination that the Participant owes more or less Excise Tax than the amount previously determined to be due. In the event that any payment or benefit intended to be provided under this Plan or otherwise is required to be reduced or repaid pursuant to this paragraph (g), the Participant will be entitled to designate the payments and/or benefits to be so reduced or repaid in order to give effect to this paragraph (g). The Corporation will provide the Participant with all information reasonably requested by the Participant to permit the Participant to make such designation. In the event that the Participant fails to make such designation within 10 business days prior to the Employment Termination date or other due date, the Corporation may effect such reduction or repayment in any manner it deems appropriate.
 
(h) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 4.09, Gross-Up Payments will be made only in the manner and to the extent (and at the earliest date(s) permitted) such that Code Section 409A will not be violated.
 
5.01  
   
Amendment
The Plan may be amended by the Board at any time; provided, however, that
 
(a)  any amendment which would have an adverse effect on any Participants Plan benefits and/or rights, except as may be otherwise required to comply with changes in applicable laws or regulations, including, but not limited to, Code Section 409A, or
 
(b)  any amendment within one year before or two years after a Change in Control,
cannot be applied to any Participant who would be adversely affected by such amendment without such Participants consent. After a Change in Control, any amendment shall also require the consent of the Committee.
5.02  
   
Termination
The Plan shall continue indefinitely after the Effective Date, unless the Board shall decide to terminate the Plan by duly adopting resolutions terminating the Plan; provided, however, following the commencement of any discussion with a third party that ultimately results in a Change in Control, the Plan shall continue subject to Section 5.01, until such time as the Corporation and each affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate) shall have fully performed all of their obligations under the Plan with respect to all Participants, and shall have paid all Severance Benefits under the Plan in full to all Participants.
 
6.01  
   
Participant Rights
The Corporation and each affiliate or Subsidiary intend this Plan to constitute a legally enforceable obligation between (a) the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate) and (b) each Participant.
It is also intended that the Plan shall confer vested and non-forfeitable rights for each Participant to receive benefits to which the Participant is entitled under the terms of the Plan with Participants being third party beneficiaries.
Except as provided in the definitions of Summary Dismissal or Constructive Termination, nothing in this Plan shall be construed to confer on any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary or to affect in any way the right of the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary to terminate a Participants employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or no reason.
6.02  
   
Authority of Committee
The Committee will administer the Plan and have the full authority and discretion necessary to accomplish that purpose, including, without limitation, the authority and discretion to: (i) resolve all questions relating to the eligibility of Executive Board members to become or continue as Participants, (ii) determine the amount of benefits, if any, payable to Participants under the Plan and determine the time and manner in which such benefits are to be paid, (iii) engage any administrative, legal, tax, actuarial, accounting, clerical, or other services it deems appropriate in administering the Plan, (iv) construe and interpret the Plan, supply omissions from, correct deficiencies in and resolve inconsistencies or ambiguities in the language of the Plan, resolve inconsistencies or ambiguities between the provisions of this document, and adopt rules for the administration of the Plan which are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan document, (v) compile and maintain all records it determines to be necessary, appropriate or convenient in connection with the administration of the Plan, and (vi) resolve all questions of fact relating to any matter for which it has administrative responsibility. The Committee shall perform all of the duties and may exercise all of the powers and discretion that the Committee deems necessary or appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan, and shall do so in a uniform, nondiscriminatory manner. Any failure by the Committee to apply any provisions of this Plan to any particular situation shall not represent a waiver of the Committees authority to apply such provisions thereafter. Every interpretation, choice, determination or other exercise of any power or discretion given either expressly or by implication to
 
the Committee shall be conclusive and binding upon all parties having or claiming to have an interest under the Plan or otherwise directly or indirectly affected by such action, without restriction, however, on the right of the Committee to reconsider and redetermine such action. Any decision rendered by the Committee and any review of such decision shall be limited to determining whether the decision was so arbitrary and capricious as to be an abuse of discretion. The Committee may adopt such rules and procedures for the administration of the Plan as are consistent with the terms hereof.
6.03  
   
Claims Procedure
A. With respect to any claim for benefits which are provided exclusively under this Plan, the claim shall be approved or denied by the Committee within 60 days following the receipt of the information necessary to process the claim. In the event the Committee denies a claim for benefits in whole or in part, it will give written notice of the decision to the claimant or the claimants authorized representative, which notice will set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, stating the specific reasons for such denial, make specific reference to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision was based, and provide any other additional information, as applicable, required by 29 Code of Federal Regulations Section 2560.503-1 applicable to the Plan.
Allocation of Claims Responsibility:
With respect to any claim for benefits which, under the terms of the Plan, are provided under another employee benefit plan maintained by the Corporation (i.e., Health Care Plans, Gold Card, life insurance, PTO/MTO Policy, Pension, Savings, Mirror Savings, BRP, and SRP benefits), the Committee shall determine claims regarding the Participant's eligibility under the Plan in accordance with the preceding paragraph, but the administration of any other claim with respect to such benefits (including the amount of such benefits) shall be subject to the claims procedure specified in such other employee benefit plan or program.
B. In the event the Committee denies a claim in whole or in part for benefits which are provided exclusively under the Plan, or denies a claim regarding the claimants eligibility under the Plan, Participants will then be allowed to file a lawsuit in Federal Court as provided under ERISA.
Litigation or Appeal
Appeals with respect to any claim for benefits which, under the terms of the Plan, are provided under another employee benefit plan maintained by the Corporation (i.e., Health Care Plans, Gold Card, life insurance, PTO/MTO Policy, Pension, Savings, Mirror Savings, BRP, and SRP benefits), shall be subject to the claims and appeals procedure specified in such other employee benefit plan.
 
6.04   
   
Records and Reports
The Committee will maintain adequate records of all of their proceedings and acts and all such books of account, records, and other data as may be necessary for administration of the Plan. The Committee will make available to each Participant upon his request such of the Plan's records as pertain to him for examination at reasonable times during normal business hours.
6.05   
   
Reliance on Tables, Etc.
In administering the Plan, the Committee is entitled to the extent permitted by law to rely conclusively upon all tables, valuations, certificates, opinions and reports which are furnished by accountants, legal counsel or other experts employed or engaged by the Committee. The Committee will be fully protected in respect of any action taken or suffered by the Committee in good faith reliance upon all such tables, valuations, certificates, reports, opinions or other advice. The Committee is also entitled to rely upon any data or information furnished by a Participating Employer or by a Participant as to any information pertinent to any calculation or determination to be made under the provisions of the Plan, and, as a condition to payment of any benefit under the Plan the Committee may request a Participant to furnish such information as it deems necessary or desirable in administering the Plan.
6.06  
   
Availability of Plan Information and Documents
Any Participant having a question concerning the administration of the Plan or the Participant's eligibility for participation in the Plan or for the payment of benefits under the Plan may contact the Committee and request a copy of the Plan document. Each Participating Employer will keep copies of this Plan document, exhibits and amendments hereto, and any related documents on file in its administrative offices, and such documents will be available for review by a Participant or a designated representative of the Participant at any reasonable time during regular business hours. Reasonable copying charges for such documents will be paid by the requesting party.
All Plan administration expenses incurred by the Committee shall be paid by the Corporation and all other administration expenses incurred by the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary shall be paid by the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate).
 
 
Any Subsidiary or affiliate of the Corporation may become a Participating Employer under the Plan provided that (i) the Board approves the adoption of the Plan by the Subsidiary or affiliate and designates the Subsidiary or affiliate as a Participating Employer in the Plan and (ii) by appropriate resolutions of the board of directors or other governing body of the Subsidiary or affiliate, the Subsidiary or affiliate agrees to become a Participating Employer under the Plan and also agrees to be bound by any other terms and conditions which may be required by the Board or the Committee, provided that such terms and conditions are not inconsistent with the purposes of the Plan. A Participating Employer may withdraw from participation in the Plan, subject to approval by the Committee, by providing written notice to the Committee that withdrawal has been approved by the board of directors or other governing body of the Participating Employer; provided, however, following the commencement of any discussion with a third party that ultimately results in a Change in Control, the Committee shall have no authority to approve the withdrawal of any Participating Employer until such time as the Corporation and each affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate) shall have fully performed all of their obligations under the Plan with respect to all Participants, and shall have paid all Severance Benefits under the Plan in full to all Participants. The Board may at any time remove a Participating Employer from participation in the Plan by providing written notice to the Participating Employer that it has approved removal; provided, however, following the commencement of any discussion with a third party that ultimately results in a Change in Control, the Board shall have no authority to remove or approve the withdrawal of any Participating Employer until such time as the Corporation and each affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate) shall have fully performed all of their obligations under the Plan with respect to all Participants, and shall have paid all Severance Benefits under the Plan in full to all Participants. The Board will act in accordance with this Article pursuant to unanimous written consent or by majority vote at a meeting.
6.09  
   
Effect on Other Benefits
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Plan shall not affect any Participants rights or entitlement under any other retirement or employee benefit plan offered to him/her by the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate) as of his/her Employment Termination.
6.10  
   
Successors
The Plan shall be binding upon any successor in interest of the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary (as appropriate) and shall inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, a Participants assigns or heirs.
 
6.11  
   
Severability
The various provisions of the Plan are severable and any determination of invalidity or unenforceability of any one provision shall not have any effect on the remaining provisions.
6.12  
   
Construction
In determining the meaning of the Plan, words imparting the masculine gender shall include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural, unless the context requires otherwise. Headings of sections and subsections of the Plan are for convenience only and are not intended to modify or affect the meaning of the substantive provisions of the Plan.
6.13  
   
References to Other Plans and Programs
Each reference in the Plan to any plan, policy or program, the Plan or document of the Corporation or an affiliate or Subsidiary, shall include any amendments or successor provisions thereto without the necessity of amending the Plan for such changes.
 
6.14 
   
Notices
 
 
 
6.15  
   
No Duty to Mitigate
The Participant shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment contemplated under this Plan, nor shall such payment be reduced by any earnings that the Participant may receive from any other source.
6.16  
   
Employment Taxes
All payments made pursuant to this Plan shall be subject to withholding of applicable income and employment taxes.
6.17  
   
Governing Law
Except to the extent that the Plan may be subject to the provisions of ERISA, the Plan will be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of Texas, without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof. Except as otherwise required by ERISA, every right of action by an Associate with respect to the Plan shall be barred after the expiration of three years from the date of termination of employment or the date of receipt of the notice of denial of a claim for benefits or eligibility, if earlier. In the event ERISA's limitation on legal action does not apply, the laws of the State of Texas with respect to the limitations of legal actions shall apply and the cause of action must be brought no later than four years after the date the action accrues.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) is committed to assuring that the Company is managed in a way that is fair to its stockholders and that allows its stockholders to maximize their investment by participating in the present and future growth of the Company. The Board of Directors has adopted these Corporate Governance Guidelines and policies and, with ongoing input from the Corporate Governance Committee, continues to assess the appropriateness of these guidelines and policies and implement such changes and adopt such additions as may be necessary or desirable to promote the effective governance of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this policy, a compelling reason could include, without limitation, a situation in which a director nominee was the target of a vote no campaign on an illegitimate basis, such as racial discrimination or on the basis of misinformation, or in which the resignation would cause the Company to be in violation of its constituent documents, applicable law or regulatory requirements. A contested election could include, without limitation, (i) a situation in which the Company has knowledge or a good-faith belief that a person, entity or investment fund, whether directly or indirectly, beneficially owns or is acquiring (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) the Companys securities in contemplation of initiating a
change in the composition of the Companys then present board of directors, including but not limited to, any plans or proposals to change the number or term of directors or to fill any existing vacancies on the board, and/or (ii) a situation in which the Company receives notice that a stockholder intends to nominate a person for election as a director in the manner required by the Companys Bylaws and such nomination is not withdrawn on or prior to the close of business on the tenth day prior to the day of mailing of notice of the meeting to stockholders.
 
III. Board Organization.
 
 
 
 
 
 
VII. Access to Management, Independent Advisors and Non-Management Directors.
 
 
 
IX.   Compensation.
 
 
  
5x for the Chief Executive Officer of the Company;
 
  
3x for the President of the Company; and  
 
  
1x for Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents.
 
For purposes of meeting such goals, vested restricted stock awards/units, earned and vested performance-based restricted stock units, shares obtained through stock option exercises, shares purchased on the open market, shares held in trust for the economic benefit of the participant or the spouse or the dependent children of the participant, shares held in the J. C. Penney Corporation, Inc. Savings, Profit-Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan and non-qualified deferred compensation invested in the Penney Common Stock Fund are counted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A director shall be considered independent if the Board of Directors affirmatively determines that the director does not have, directly or indirectly, any material relationship with the Company, other than such directors service as a Company director. In making this determination the Board shall broadly consider all relevant facts and circumstances.
The Board has established the following standards, based upon those set forth by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Listing Standards, to assist it in determining director independence. For the purposes of these standards, the term immediate family member shall have the meaning given in the NYSE Listing Standards, as may be amended or modified from time to time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of this policy is to set forth the procedures established by the Corporate Governance Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (the Company) for the review and consideration of related person transactions.
 
 
Each director and executive officer of the Company shall submit the following information to the Companys Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary or her designee (the Legal Department) on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any person who is to be elected or appointed as a new director or executive officer of the Company shall submit the information described above to the Legal Department in connection with such persons nomination or appointment.
 
 
Throughout the year, each director and executive officer of the Company shall promptly notify the Legal Department of any changes to the information described above.
 
 
Based upon the information collected under the procedures described above, the Legal Department shall create, update and periodically review, as appropriate, a master list of related persons and the entities affiliated with such persons.
 
IV.
 
 
Duty to Report Proposed Transactions and Proposed Changes to Existing Transactions
 
Prior to the Companys participation in any transaction in which a related person has a direct or indirect interest, the related person shall provide notice to the Legal Department of all known material facts and circumstances regarding the transaction and interest. The Legal Department shall then assess whether the proposed transaction is a related person transaction for purposes of this policy, and if so, the transaction shall be presented to the Committee for review and consideration.
 
Prior to any change to an existing related person transaction, the related person shall provide notice to the Legal Department of all known material facts and circumstances regarding the proposed change. The Legal Department shall then assess whether the proposed change is material for purposes of this policy, and if so, the change shall be presented to the Committee for review and consideration pursuant to this policy.
 
V.
 
 
Procedures
 
Any transaction that the Legal Department has determined to be a related person transaction shall be reviewed by the Committee and the interested director shall not participate in any recommendation or decision regarding the transaction.
 
In connection with their review of a proposed related person transaction or material change to an existing related person transaction, the Committee shall be informed of all material facts and circumstances regarding the transaction or change and may consider any information or factors that they deem relevant in deciding whether to grant the necessary approval. While it may often be entirely appropriate for the Committee to approve or ratify a related person transaction, it shall not approve any such transaction or change that would: (a) interfere with the objectivity and independence of any related persons judgment or conduct in carrying out his or her duties and responsibilities to the Company, (b) not be fair as to the Company, or (c) otherwise be opposed to the best interests of the Company and its stockholders.
 
 
The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members the authority to grant the Committee approvals required by this policy. The decision of any member to whom such authority is delegated shall be reported to the full Committee at its next scheduled meeting.
 
No approval or ratification of a transaction hereunder shall be deemed to supersede the requirements of the Companys Statement of Business Ethics or Corporate Governance Guidelines applicable to any related person and to the extent applicable, any transactions subject to this policy shall also be considered in light of the requirements set forth in those documents.
 
In the case of a potential related person transaction involving a director who is not an employee of the company, the Committee will determine whether the transaction, if it occurs or is expected to occur, or information relating to it is likely to be significant to the assessment by the Board of Directors of the independence of the director, under the Companys Standards for Determination of Director Independence, and if so the Committee shall advise the Board of Directors of the transaction and any relevant information.
 
 
The Committee shall annually (a) review each existing related person transaction that has an amount involved of at least $120,000, and (b) determine, based upon all material facts and circumstances and taking into consideration the Companys contractual obligations, whether it is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to continue, modify or terminate the transaction or relationship.
 
 
The following definitions apply for purposes of this policy:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
.
 
 
Any person who is, or at any time since the beginning of the Companys last fiscal year was, a director or executive officer of the Company or a nominee to become a director of the Company;
2. Any person who is known to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of any class of the Companys voting securities; and
3. Any immediate family member of any of the foregoing persons.
 
1. The election or appointment of any director or the employment by the Company of any executive officer who is not an immediate family member of another related person;
 
 
 
 
2.
 
A transaction in which the interest of the related person arises solely from the ownership of a class of equity securities of the Company and all holders of such class of securities receive the same benefit on a pro rata basis (e.g., pro rata dividends);
3. A transaction in which the rates or charges involved in the transaction are determined by competitive bids;
4. A transaction involving the rendering of services as a common or contract carrier, or public utility, at rates or charges fixed in conformity with law or governmental authority; or
5.
 
A transaction involving services as a bank depositary of funds, transfer agent, registrar, trustee under a trust indenture or similar services.
In addition, a person shall not be deemed to have a material interest where the interest arises only from:
1.
 
such persons position as a director of another corporation or organization that is a party to the transaction; the direct or indirect ownership by such person and all other related persons, in the aggregate, of less than a 10% equity interest in another person (other than a partnership) which is a party to the transaction; or both such position and ownership;
2.
 
such persons position as a limited partner in a partnership in which the person and all other related persons have an interest of less than 10%, and the person is not a general partner of and does not hold another position in the partnership;
3.
 
such persons position as an officer (or as an officer and director) of another corporation or organization that is a party to the transaction so long as (i) transaction payments have not exceeded, and are not expected to exceed, within any one year 2%) (or $1 million, whichever is greater) of the consolidated gross revenues of either the Company or the other organization for such year, (ii) such person does not receive any special benefit from the transaction, and (iii) such person and all other related persons, in the aggregate, do not have a 10% or more beneficial ownership interest in the other organization; or
4. if the transaction is a charitable contribution or pledge to a tax-exempt organization, such persons position as a trustee, fiduciary, director or officer of the organization so long as (i)
 
 
 
 
the contributions have not exceeded, and are not expected to exceed, within any one year 2% (or $1 million, whichever is greater) of the organizations consolidated gross revenues for such year, and (ii) such person does not receive any special benefit from the transaction.
  
 
 


